ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION.

July 9,1778.

To all to whom these presents shall come,
We, the undersigned, Delegates of the States affixed to our names, send greeting :
Whereas the Delegates of the United States of America in Congress assembled, did on the fifteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and seventy-seven, and in the second year of the Independence of America, agree to certain Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union between the states of New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia, in the words following, viz.
ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION AND PERPETUAL UNION,
between the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia.
Art ic le 1. The style of this confederacy shall be, " The Unit ed Sta te s of Amer ic a ."
Art . 2. Each State retains its sovereignty, freedom, and independence, and every power, jurisdiction, and right, which is not by this confederation, expressly delegated to the United States, in Congress assembled.
Art . 3. The said States hereby severally enter into a firm league of friendship with each other, for their common defence, the security of their liberties, and their mutual and general welfare, binding themselves to assist each other against all force offered to, or attacks made upon them, or any of them, on account of religion, sovereignty, trade, or any other pretence whatever.
Art . 4. § 1. The better to secure and perpetuate mutual friendship and intercourse among the people of the different States in this Union, the free inhabitants of each of these States, paupers, vagabonds, and fugitives from justice excepted, shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of free citizens in the several States; and the people of each State shall have free ingress and regress to and from any other State, and shall enjoy therein all the privileges of trade and commerce, subject to the same duties, impositions, and restrictions, as the inhabitants thereof respectively; provided that such restrictions shall not extend so far as to prevent the removal of property imported into any State, to any other State, of which the owner is an inhabitant; provided also, that no imposition, duties, or restriction, shall be laid by any State on the property of the United States, or either of them.
§ 2. If any person guilty of, or charged with, treason, felony, or other high misdemeanor in any State, shall flee from justice, and be found in any of the United States, he shall, upon demand of the governor or executive power of the State from which he fled, be delivered up, and removed to the State having jurisdiction of his offence.
§ 3. Full faith and credit shall be given, in each of these States, to the records, acts, and judicial proceedings of the courts and magistrates of every other State.
Art . 5. § 1. For the more convenient management of the general interests of the United States, delegates shall be annually appointed in such manner as the legislature of each State shall direct, to meet in Congress on the first Monday in November, in every year, with a power reserved to each State to recall its delegates, or any of them, at any time within the year, and to send others in their stead, for the remainder of the year.
4

THE ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION.

5

§ 2. No State shall be represented in Congress by less than two, norby more than seven members; and no person shall be capable of being
a delegate for more than three years, in any term of six years; nor shall any person, being a delegate, be capable of holding any office under the United States, for which he, or another for his benefit, receives any
salary, fees, or emolument of any kind. § 3. Each State shall maintain its own delegates in a meeting of the
States, and while they act as members of the committee of these States. § 4. In determining questions in the United States in Congress as-
sembled, each State shall have one vote. § 5. Freedom of speech and debate in Congress shall not be im-
peached or questioned in any court or place out of Congress; and the members of Congress shall be protected in their persons from arrests and imprisonments during the time of their going to and from, and attendance on, Congress, except for treason, felony or breach of the peace.
Art . 6. § 1. No State, without the consent of the United States, in Congress assembled, shall send any embassy to, or receive any embassy from, or enter into any conferrence, agreement, alliance, or treaty, with any king, prince or State; nor shall any person holding any office of profit or trust under the United States, or any of them, accept of any present, emolument, office, or title of any kind whatever, from any king, prince, or foreign State; nor shall the United States, in Congress assembled, or any of them, grant any title of nobility.
§ 2. No two or more States shall enter into any treaty, confederation, or alliance whatever, between them, without the consent of the United States, in Congress assembled, specifying accurately the purposes for which the same is to be entered into, and how long it shall
continue. § 3. No State shall lay any imposts or duties which may interfere
with any stipulations in treaties, entered into by the United States, in Congress assembled, with any king, prince, or State, in pursuance of any treaties already proposed by Congress to the courts of France and
Spain. § 4. No vessels of war shall be kept up in time of peace, by any
State, except such number only as shall be deemed necessary by the United States, in Congress assembled, for the defence of such State, or its trade; nor shall any body of forces be kept up, by any State, in time of peace, except such number only as, in the judgment of the United States, in Congress assembled, shall be deemed requisite to garrison the forts necessary for the defence of such State; but every State shall always keep up a well-regulated and disciplined militia, sufficiently armed and accoutred, and shall provide and constantly have ready for use, in public stores, a due number of field-pieces and tents, and a proper quan-
tity of arms, ammunition, and camp equipage. § 5. No State shall engage in any war without the consent of the
United States, in Congress assembled, unless such State be actually invaded by enemies, or shall have received certain advice of a resolution being formed by some nation of Indians to invade such State, and the danger is so imminent as not to admitof a delay till the United States, in Congress assembled, can be consulted; nor shall any State grant commissions to any ships or vessels of war, nor letters of marque or reprisal, except it be after a declaration of war by the United States, in Congress assembled, and then only against the kingdom or State, and the subjects thereof, against which war has been so declared, and under such regulations as shall be established by the United States, in Congress assembled, unless such State be infested by pirates, in which case vessels of war may be fitted out for that occasion, and kept so long as the danger shall continue, or until the United States, in Congress assembled,
shall determine otherwise. a2

July 9,1778.

6 July 9,1778.

THE ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION.
Art . 7. When land forces are raised by any State, for the common defence, all officers of, or under the rank of colonel, shall be appointed by the legislature of each State respectively by whom such forces shall be raised, or in such manner as such State shall direct, and all vacancies shall be filled up by the State which first made the appointment.
Art . 8. All charges of war, and all other expenses that shall be incurred for the common defence or general welfare, and allowed by the United States, in Congress assembled, shall be defrayed out of a common treasury, which shall be supplied by the several States, in proportion to the value of all land within each State, granted to, or surveyed for, any person, as such land and the buildings and improvements thereon shall be estimated, according to such mode as the United States, in Congress assembled, shall, from time to time, direct and appoint. The taxes for paying that proportion shall be laid and levied by the authority and direction of the legislatures of the several States, within the time agreed upon by the United States, in Congress assembled.
Art . 9. § 1. The United States, in Congress assembled, shall have the sole and exclusive right and power of determining on peace and war, except in the cases mentioned in the sixth Article, of sending and receiving ambassadors; entering into treaties and alliances, provided that no treaty of commerce shall be made, whereby the legislative power of the respective States shall be restrained from imposing such imposts and duties on foreigners, as their own people are subjected to, or from prohibiting the exportation or importation of any species of goods or commodities whatsoever; of establishing rules for deciding, in all cases, what captures on land or water shall be legal, and in what manner prizes taken by land or naval forces in the service of the United States, shall be divided or appropriated; of granting letters of marque and reprisal in times of peace; appointing courts for the trial of piracies and felonies committed on the high seas; and establishing courts for receiving and determining finally appeals in all cases of captures; provided that no member of Congress shall be appointed a judge of any of the said courts.
§ 2. The United States, in Congress assembled, shall also be the last resort on appeal, in all disputes and differences now subsisting, or that hereafter may arise between two or more States concerning boundary, jurisdiction, or any other cause whatever; which authority shall always be exercised in the manner following: Whenever the legislative or executive authority, or lawful agent of any State in controversy with another, shall present a petition to Congress, stating the matter in question, and praying for a hearing, notice thereof shall be given, by order of Congress, to the legislative or executive authority of the other State in controversy, -and a day assigned for the appearance of the parties by their lawful agents, who shall then be directed to appoint, by joint consent, commissioners or judges to constitute a court for hearing and determining the matter in question; but if they cannot agree, Congress shall name three persons out of each of the United States, and from the list of such persons each party shall alternately strike out one, the petitioners beginning, until the number shall be reduced to thirteen; and from that number not less than seven, nor more than nine names, as Congress shall direct, shall, in the presence of Congress, be drawn out by lot; and the persons whose names shall be so drawn, or any five of them, shall be commissioners or judges, to hear and finally determine the controversy, so always as a major part of the judges, who shall hear the cause, shall agree in the determination; and if either party shall neglect to attend at the day appointed, without showing reasons which Congress shall judge sufficient, or being present, shall refuse to strike, the Congress shall proceed to nominate three persons out of each State, and the secretary of Congress shall strike in behalf of such party absent

THE ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION.

7

or refusing; and the judgment and sentence of the court, to be appointed in the manner before prescribed, shall be final and conclusive; and if any of the parties shall refuse to submit to the authority of such court, or to appear or defend their claim or cause, the court shall nevertheless proceed to pronounce sentence, or judgment, which shall in like manner be final and decisive; the judgment or sentence and other proceedings being in either case transmitted to Congress, and lodged among the acts of Congress, for the security of the parties concerned; provided, that every commissioner, before he sits in judgment, shall take an oath, to be administered by one of the judges of the supreme or superior court of the State where the cause shall be tried, " well and truly to hear and determine the matter in question, according to the best of his judgment, without favour, affection, or hope of reward." Provided, also, that no State shall be deprived of territory for the benefit of the United States.
§ 3. All controversies concerning the private right of soil claimed under different grants of two or more States, whose jurisdictions, as they may respect such lands, and the States which passed such grants are adjusted, the said grants or either of them being at the same time claimed to have originated antecedent to such settlement of jurisdiction, shall, on the petition of either party to the Congress of the United States, be finally determined, as near as may be, in the same manner as is before prescribed for deciding disputes respecting territorial jurisdiction between different States.
§ 4. The United States, in Congress assembled, shall also have the sole and exclusive right and power of regulating the alloy and value of coin struck by their own authority, or by that of the respective States; fixing the standard of weights and measures throughout the United States; regulating the trade and managing all affairs with the Indians, not members of any of the States; provided that the legislative right of any State, within its own limits, be not infringed or violated; establishing and regulating post offices from one State to another, throughout all the United States, and exacting such postage on the papers passing through the same, as may be requisite to defray the expenses of the said office; appointing all officers of the land forces in the service of the United States, excepting regimental officers; appointing all the officers of the naval forces, and commissioning all officers whatever in the service of the United States; making rules for the government and regulation of the said land and naval forces, and directing their operations.
§ 5. The United States, in Congress assembled, shall have authority to appoint a committee, to sit in the recess of Congress, to be denominated, "A Committee of the States," and to consist of one delegate from each State; and to appoint such other committees and civil officers as may be necessary for managing the general affairs of the United States under their direction; to appoint one of their number to preside; provided that no person be allowed to serve in the office of president more than one year in any term of three years; to ascertain the necessary sums of money to be raised for the service of the United States, and to appropriate and apply the same for defraying the public expenses; to borrow money or emit bills on the credit of the United States, transmitting every half year to the respective States an account of the sums of money so borrowed or emitted; to build and equip a navy ; to agree upon the number of land forces, and to make requisitions from each State for its quota, in proportion to the number of white inhabitants in such State, which requisition shall be binding; and thereupon the Legislature of each State shall appoint the regimental officers, raise the men, and clothe, arm, and equip them, in a soldier-like manner, at the expense of the United States; and the officers and men so clothed, armed, and equipped, shall march to the place appointed, and within

July 9,1778.

8

THE ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION.

July 9, 177S.

the time agreed on by the United States, in Congress assembled; but if the United States, in Congress assembled, shall, on consideration of circumstances, judge proper that any State should not raise men, or should raise a smaller number than its quota, and that any other State should raise a greater number of men than the quota thereof, such extra number shall be raised, officered, clothed, armed, and equipped in the same manner as the quota of such State, unless the Legislature of such State shall judge that such extra number cannot be safely spared out of the same, in which case they shall raise, officer, clothe, arm, and equip, as many of such extra number as they judge can be safely spared, and the officers and men so clothed, armed, and equipped, shall march to the place appointed, and within the time agreed on by the United States in Congress assembled.
§ 6. The United States, in Congress assembled, shall never engage in a war, nor grant letters of marque and reprisal in time of peace, nor enter into any treaties or alliances, nor coin money, nor regulate the value thereof, nor ascertain the sums and expenses necessary for the defence and welfare of the United States, or any of them, nor emit bills, nor borrow money on the credit of the United States, nor appropriate money, nor agree upon the number of vessels of war to be built or purchased, or the number of land or sea forces to be raised, nor appoint a commander-in-chief of the army or navy, unless nine States assent to the same, nor shall a question on any other point, except for adjourning from day to day, be determined, unless by the votes of a majority of the United States in Congress assembled.
§ 7. The Congress of the United States shall have power to adjourn to any time within the year, and to any place within the United States,
so that no period of adjournment be for a longer duration than the space of six months, and shall publish the journal of their proceedings monthly, except such parts thereof relating to treaties, alliances, or military operations, as in their judgment require secrecy; and the yeas and nays of the delegates of each State, on any question, shall be entered on the journal, when it is desired by any delegate; and the delegates of a State, or any of them, at his or their request, shall be furnished with a transcript of the said journal, except such parts as are above excepted, to lay before the legislatures of the several States.
Art . 10. The committee of the States, or any nine of them, shall be authorized to execute, in the recess of Congress, such of the powers of Congress as the United States, in Congress assembled, by the consent of nine States, shall, from time to time, think expedient to vest them with; provided that no power be delegated to the said committee, for the exercise of which, by the articles of confederation, the voice of nine States, in the Congress of the United States assembled, is requisite.
Art . 11. Canada acceding to this confederation, and joining in the measures of the United States, shall be admitted into, and entitled to all the advantages of this Union: but no other colony shall be admitted into the same, unless such admission be agreed to by nine States.
Art . 12. All bills of credit emitted, moneys borrowed, and debts contracted by or under the authority of Congress, before the assembling of the United States, in pursuance of the present confederation, shall be deemed and considered as a charge against the United States, for payment and satisfaction whereof the said United States and the public faith are hereby solemnly pledged.
Art . 13. Every State shall abide by the determinations of the United States, in Congress assembled, on all questions which by this confederation are submitted to them. And the articles of this confederation shall be inviolably observed by every State, and the Union shall be perpetual ; nor shall any alteration at any time hereafter be made in any of them, unless such alteration be agreed to in a Congress of the

THE ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION.
United States, and be afterwards confirmed by the legislatures of every State.
And whereas it hath pleased the great Governor of the world to incline the hearts of the legislatures we respectively represent in Congress, to approve of, and to authorize us to ratify the said articles of confederation and perpetual union, Know ye, that we, the undersigned delegates, by virtue of the power and authority to us given for that purpose, do, by these presents, in the name and in behalf of our respective constituents, fully and entirely ratify and confirm each and every of the said articles of confederation and perpetual union, and all and singular the matters and things therein contained. And we do further solemnly plight and engage the faith of our respective constituents, that they shall abide by the determinations of the United States, in Congress assembled, on all questions which by the said confederation are submitted to them; and that the articles thereof shall be inviolably observed by the States we respectively represent, and that the Union shall be perpetual. In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands, in Congress.
Done at Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania, the 9th day of July, in the year of our Lord 1778, and in the third year of the Independence of America.
On the part and behalf of the State of New Hampshire.--Josiah Bartlett, John Wentworth, Jun. (August 8, 1778.)
On the part and behalf of the State of Massachusetts Bay.--John Hancock, Samuel Adams, Elbridge Gerry, Francis Dana, James Lovell, Samuel Holten.
On the part and behalf of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.--William Ellery, Henry Marchant, John Collins.
On the part and behalf of the State of Connecticut.--Roger Sherman, Samuel Huntington, Oliver Wolcott, Titus Hosmer, Andrew Adams.
On the part and behalf of the State of New York.--James Duane, Francis Lewis, William Duer, Gouv. Morris.
On the part and in behalf of the State of New Jersey.--Jno. Witherspoon, Nath. Scudder, (November 26, 1778.)
On the part and behalf of the State of Pennsylvania.--Robert Morris, Daniel Roberdeau, Jona. Bayard Smith, William Clingan, Joseph Reed, (July 22, 1778.)
On the part and behalf of the State of Delaware.--Thomas M'Kean, (February 12, 1779,) John Dickinson, (May 5, 1779,) Nicholas Van Dyke.
On the part and behalf of the State of Maryland.--John Hanson, (March 1, 1781,) Daniel Carroll, (March 1,1781.)
On the part and, behalf of the State of Virginia.--Richard Henry Lee, John Banister, Thomas Adams, Jno. Harvie, Francis Lightfoot Lee.
On the part and behalf of the State of North Carolina.--John Penn, (July 21, 1778,) Corns. Harnett, Jno. Williams.
On the part and behalf of the State of South Carolina..--Henry Laurens, William Henry Drayton, Jno. Mathews, Richard Hutson, Thos. Heyward, Jun.
On the part and behalf of the State of Georgia.--Jno. Walton, (July 24, 1778,) Edwd. Telfair, Edward Langworthy.
Vol . I.--2

9 July 9, 1788.

ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT AND CONFEDERATION,

Made and entered into by Andrew and Thomas Lewis, Esquires, Commissioners for, and in Behalf of the United States of North-America of the one Part, and Capt. White Eyes, Capt. John Kill Buch, Junior, and Capt. Pipe, Deputies and Chief Men of the Delaware Nation of the other Part.

Sept. 17, 1778,

ARTICLE I.
Tha t all offences or acts of hostilities by one, or either of the contracting parties against the other, be mutually forgiven, and buried in the depth of oblivion, never more to be had in remembrance.

All offences mutually forgiven.

ARTICLE II.
That a perpetual peace and friendship shall from henceforth take place, and subsist between the contracting parties aforesaid, through all succeeding generations: and if either of the parties are engaged in a just and necessary war with any other nation or nations, that then each shall assist the other in due proportion to their abilities, till, their enemies are brought to reasonable terms of accommodation: and that if either of them shall discover any hostile designs forming against the other, they shall give the earliest notice thereof, that timeous measures may be taken to prevent their ill effect.

Peace and friendship perpetual.
In case of war, each party to assist the other,

ARTICLE III.

And whereas the United States are engaged in a just and necessary war, in defence and support of life, liberty and independence, against the King of England and his adherents, and as said King is yet possessed of several posts and forts on the lakes and other places, the reduction of which is of great importance to the peace and security of the contracting parties, and as the most practicable way for the troops of the United States to some of the posts and forts is by passing through the country of the Delaware nation, the aforesaid deputies, on behalf of themselves and their nation, do hereby stipulate and agree to give a free passage through their country to the troops aforesaid, and the same to conduct by the nearest and best ways to the posts, forts or towns of the enemies of the United States, affording to said troops such supplies of corn, meat, horses, or whatever may be in their power for the accommodation of such troops, on the commanding officer's, &c. paying, or engageing to pay, the full value of whatever they can supply them with. And the said deputies, on the behalf of their nation, engage to join the troops of the United States aforesaid, with such a number of their best and most expeart warriors as they can spare, consistent with their own safety, and act in concert with them; and for the better security of the old men, women and children of the aforesaid nation, whilst their warriors are engaged against the common enemy, it is agreed on the part of the United States, that a fort of sufficient strength and capacity be built at the expense of the said States, with such assistance as it may be in the power of the said Delaware Nation to give, in the most convenient place, and advantageous situation, as shall be agreed on by the commanding officer of the troops aforesaid, with the advice and concurrence of the deputies of the aforesaid Delaware Nation, which fort shall be garrisoned by such a number of the troops of the United States, as the commanding officer can spare for the present, and hereafter by

B

(13)

U. S. to have free passage to forts or towns of their-enemies.
Such warriors as can be spared, to join the troops of the U. S.

14

TREATY WITH THE DELAWARES. 1778.

such numbers, as the wise men of the United States in council, shah think most conducive to the common good.

Neither party to inflict punishment without an impartial trial.
Nor protect criminal fugitives, &c.

ARTICLE IV.
For the better security of the peace and friendship now entered into by the contracting parties, against all infractions of the same by the citizens of either party, to the prejudice of the other, neither party shall proceed to the infliction of punishments on the citizens of the other, otherwise than by securing the offender or offenders by imprisonment, or any other competent means, till a fair and impartial trial can be had by judges or juries of both parties, as near as can be to the laws, customs and usages of the contracting parties and natural justice: The mode of such tryals to be hereafter fixed by the wise men of the United States in Congress assembled, with the assistance of such deputies of the Delaware nation, as may be appointed to act in concert with them in adjusting this matter to their mutual liking. And it is further agreed between the parties aforesaid, that neither shall entertain or give countenance to the enemies of the other, or protect in their respective states, criminal fugitives, servants or slaves, but the same to apprehend, and secure and deliver to the State or States, to which such enemies, criminals, servants or slaves respectively belong.

Agent to be appointed by the U. S. to trade with the Delaware nation.

ARTICLE V.
Whereas the confederation entered into by the Delaware nation and the United States, renders the first dependent on the latter for all the articles of cloathing, utensils and implements of war, and it is judged not only reasonable, but indispensibly necessary, that the aforesaid Nation be supplied with such articles from time to time, as far as the United States may have it in their power, by a well-regulated trade, under the conduct of an intelligent, candid agent, with an adequate sallery, one more influenced by the love of his country, and a constant attention to the duties of his department by promoting the common interest, than the sinister purposes of converting and binding all the duties of his office to his private emolument: Convinced of the necessity of such measures, the Commissioners of the United States, at the earnest solicitation of the deputies aforesaid, have engaged in behalf of the United States, that such a trade shall be afforded said nation, conducted on such principals of mutual interest as the wisdom of the United States in Congress assembled shall think most conducive to adopt for their mutual convenience.

U.S. guarantee to them all territorial rights as bounded by former treaties.
To have a representation in Congress on certain conditions.

ARTICLE VI.
Whereas the enemies of the United States have endeavoured, by every artifice in their power, to possess the Indians in general with an opinion, that it is the design of the States aforesaid, to extirpate the Indians and take possession of their country: to obviate such false sugestion, the United States do engage to guarantee to the aforesaid nation of Delawares, and their heirs, all their teritoreal rights in the fullest and most ample manner, as it hath been bounded by former treaties, as long as they the said Delaware nation shall abide by, and hold fast the chain of friendship now entered into. And it is further agreed on between the contracting parties should it for the future be found conducive for the mutual interest of both parties to invite any other tribes who have been friends to the interest of the United States, to join the present confederation, and to form a state whereof the Delaware nation shall be the head, and have a representation in Congress: Provided, nothing contained in this article to be considered as conclusive until it meets with the approbation of Congress. And it is also the intent and meaning of this article, that no protection or countenance shall be

TREATY WITH THE SIX NATIONS. 1784.

15

afforded to any who are at present our enemies, by which they might escape the punishment they deserve.

In wi tn ess whereof, the Parties have hereunto interchangeably sett their Hands and Seals at Fort-Pitt, September seventeenth, Anno Domini one thousand seven hundred and seventy-eight.

Andrew Lewis, Thomas Lewis, White Eyes,

The Pipe, John Kill Buck.

IN PRESENCE OF
Lachn. Mdntosh, B. General, commander the western department. Daniel Brodhead, Col. 8th Pennsylvania regiment. W. Crawford, Col. John Campbell. John Stephenson. Jno. Gibson, Col. 13th Virginia regiment. A. Graham, Brigade Major. Lachn. M'Intosh, jun. Major Brigade. Benjamin Mills. Joseph L. Finley, Capt. 8th Pennsylvania regiment. John Finley, Capt. 8th Pennsylvania regiment.
To the Indian names are subjoined a mark and seal.

*
ARTICLES

Concluded at Fort Stanwix, on the twenty-second day of October, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-four, between Oliver Wolcott, Richard Butler, and Arthur Lee, Commissioners Plenipotentiary from the United States, in Congress assembled, on the one Part, and the Sachems and Warriors of the Six Nations, on the other.

Oct. 22, 1784.

The United States of America give peace to the Senecas, Mohawks, Onondagas and Cayugas, and receive them into their protection upon the following conditions:
ARTICLE I.
Six hostages shall be immediately delivered to the commissioners by the said nations, to remain in possession of the United States, till all the prisoners, white and black, which were taken by the said Senecas, Mohawks, Onondagas and Cayugas, or by any of them, in the late war, from among the people of the United States, shall be delivered up.

Hostages to bo given till prisoners are delivered up.

ARTICLE II.
The Oneida and Tuscarora nations shall be secured in the possession of the lands on which they are settled.

Possession of lands secured.

ARTICLE III.
A line shall be drawn, beginning at the mouth of a creek about four miles east of Niagara, called Oyonwayea, or Johnston's Landing-Place, upon the lake named by the Indians Oswego, and by us Ontario; from thence southerly in a direction always four miles east of the carryingpath, between Lake Erie and Ontario, to the mouth of Tehoseroron or Buffaloe Creek on Lake Erie; thence south to the north boundary of the state of Pennsylvania; thence west to the end of the said north boundary; thence south along the west boundary of the said state, to the river Ohio; the said line from the mouth of the Oyonwayea to the Ohio, shall be the western boundary of the lands of the Six Nations, so that the Six Nations shall and do yield to the United States, all

Boundaries.

TREATY OF ALLIANCE
Between the United States of America and His Most Christian Majesty, (a)

Feb. 6, 1778. Annulled by act of Congress of July 7, 1798, ch. 67, vol. 1, 578.
If war break out with Great Britain, to be a common cause.

TREATY OF ALLIANCE. The Most Christian King and the United States of North America; to wit: New-Hampshire, Massachusetts-bay, Rhode-Island, Connecticut, New-York, New-Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina, and Georgia, having this day concluded a treaty of Amity and Commerce, for the reciprocal advantage of their subjects and citizens, have thought it necessary to take into consideration the means of strengthening those engagements, and of rendring them useful to the safety and tranquility of the two parties; particularly in case Great Britain, in resentment of that connection and of the good correspondence which is the object of the said treaty, should break the peace with France, either by direct hostilities, or by hindring her commerce and navigation in a manner contrary to the rights of nations, and the peace subsisting between the two crowns: And his Majesty and the said United States, having resolved in that case to join their councels and efforts against the enterprises of their common enemy, the respective plenipotentiaries empowered to concert the clauses and conditions proper to fulfil the said intentions, have, after the most mature deliberation, concluded and determined on the following articles:
ART. I. If war should break out between France and Great Britain during the continuance of the present war between the United States and England, his Majesty and the said United States shall make it a common cause and aid each other mutually with their good offices, their counsels and their forces, according to the exigence of conjunctures, as becomes good and faithful allies.

(a) The treaties and conventions between the United States and France, have been: 1. Treaty of alliance between the United States of America and his Most Christian Majesty, concluded at Paris the 6th day of February, 1778. Annulled by act of Congress, passed July 7, 1798. Ch. 67, vol. 1. 578. 2. Treaty of amity and commerce between the United States of America and his Most Christian Majesty, concluded at Paris the 6th day of February, 1778; post, 12. Annulled by act of Congress, passed July 7, 1798. Ch. 67, vol. 1, 578. 3. Contract between his Most Christian Majesty and the United States of America, entered into at Paris by the Count de Vergennes and Mr. Franklin, the 16th July 1782, and ratified by Congress the 22d January 1783; post, 596. 4. Convention between his Most Christian Majesty and the United States of America, for the purpose of defining and establishing the functions and privileges of their respective consuls and vice-consuls. Entered into at Paris the 14th day of November 1788, post, 106. Annulled by act ofCongress passed July 7, 1798. Ch. 67, vol. 1, 578. 5. Convention between the French Republic and the United States, done at Paris the 30th of September 1800; the Senate of the United States concurring on the 3d day of February 1801, with the exception of the second article, and substituting another article, limiting the continuance of the treaty to twelve
(6)

TRAITE D'ALLIANCE
Entre les Etats Unis d'Amerique et Sa Majeste Tres Chretienne.
TRAITE D'ALLIANCE,
eventuelle et defensive.
Le Roi tres Chretien et les Etats Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale, favoir, New-Hampshire, la Baye de Massachuset, Rhode-Island, Connecticut, New-York, New-Jersey, Pensylvanie, Delaware, Maryland, Virginie, Caroline Septentrionale, Caroline Meridionale, et Georgia; ayant conclu ce jourd'huy un traite d'amitie, de bonne intelligence et de commerce, pour 1'avantage reciproque de leurs sujets et citoyens, ils ont cru devoir prendre en consideration, les moyens de refferrer leurs liaisons, et de les rendre utiles a la surete et a la tranquilite des deux parties, notament dans le cas ou la Grande Bretagne, en haine de ces memes liaisons et de la bonne correspondance qui forment 1'objet du dit traite, se porteroit a, rompre la paix avec la France, soit en 1'attaquant hostilement, soit en troublant son commerce, et sa navigation, d'une maniere contraire au droit des gens et a la paix subsistante entre les deux couronnes: Et sa Majeste et les dits Etats Unis ayant resolu eventuellement d'unir, dans le cas prevu, leurs conseils et leurs efforts contre les entreprises de leur ennemi commun, les plenipotentiaires respectifs, charges de concerter les clauses et conditions propres a remplir leurs intentions, ont, apres la plus mure deliberation conclu et arreste les points et articles qui s'ensuivent.
ARTICLE PREMIER. Si la guerre eclate entre la France et la Grande Bretagne, pendant la duree de la guerre actuelle entre les Etats Unis et 1'Angleterre, sa Majeste et les dits Etats Unis seront cause commune et s'entr'aideront mutuellement de leurs bons offices, de leurs conseils et de leurs forces, selon 1'exigence des conjonctures, ainsy qu'il convient a de bons et fideles allies.
years ; and afterwards by France, limiting the continuance of the treaty to eight years ; and the United States on the 31st July 1801; which ratifications were concurred in by the Senate on the 19th of December 1801, as set forth in the proclamation of the President of the United States, under the date of 21st December 1801; post, 178.
6. Treaty between the United States of America and the French Republic; done at Paris, on the 30th April 1803; post, 200.
7. Convention between the United States of America and the French Republic; done at Paris, on the 30th April 1803 ; post, 206.
8. Convention between the United States of America and the French Republic; done at Paris, on the 30th April 1803 ; post, 208.
9. Convention of navigation and commerce between the United States of America, and His Majesty the King of France and Navarre; with a separate article. Signed at Washington, on the 24th day of June 1822; and ratified as stated in the proclamation of the President of the United States, dated the 12th day of February 1823 ; post, 278.
10. Convention with France, done at Paris, July 4, 1831. Ratified on both parts, and the respective ratifications exchanged at Washington, on the 2d day of February 1832; post, 430.
(7)

8

TREATY OF ALLIANCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

Object of the treaty, independence of the United States.

ART. II.
The essential and direct end of the present defensive alliance is to maintain effectually the liberty, sovereignty and independance absolute and unlimited, of the said United States, as well in matters of gouvernement as of commerce.

Both parties to make every effort to attain that end.

ART. III. The two contracting parties shall each on its own part, and in the manner it may judge most proper, make all the efforts in its power against their common enemy, in order to attain the end proposed.

Concurrence in enterprise.

ART. IV. The contracting parties agree that in case either of them should form any particular enterprise in which the concurrence of the other may be desired, the party whose concurrence is desired, shall readily and with good faith, join to act in concert for that purpose, as far as circumstances and its own particular situation will permit; and in that case, they shall regulate, by a particular convention, the quantity and kind of succour to be furnished, and the time and manner of its being brought into action, as well as the advantages which are to be its compensation.

Conquests that shall belong to the U. States.

ART. V. If the United States should think fit to attempt the reduction of the British power, remaining in the northern parts of America, or the islands of Bermudas, those countries or islands in case of success, shall be confederated with, or dependant upon the said United States.

France relinquishes all claim to certain countries, if conquered.

ART. VI.
The Most Christian King renounces for ever the possession of the islands of Bermudas, as well as of any part of the continent of North America, which before the treaty of Paris in 1763, or in virtue of that treaty, were acknowledged to belong to the crown of Great Britain, or to the United States, heretofore called British colonies, or which are at this time, or have lately been under the power of the king and crown of Great Britain.

Conquests that shall belong to France.

ART. VII. If his Most Christian Majesty shall think proper to attack any of the islands situated in the Gulph of Mexico, or near that Gulph, which are at present under the power of Great Britain, all the said isles, in case of success, shall appertain to the crown of France.

Neither party to conclude a treaty without the other's consent, &c.

ART. VIII.
Neither of the two parties shall conclude either truce or peace, with Great Britain, without the formal consent of the other first obtained; and they mutually engage not to lay down their arms until the independence of the United States shall have been formally or tacitly assured, by the treaty or treaties that shall terminate the war.

No claim of compensation after the war.

ART. IX.
The contracting parties declare, that being resolved to fulfil each on its own part, the clauses and conditions of the present treaty of alliance, according to its own power and circumstances, there shall be no after claim of compensation on one side or the other, whatever may be the event of the war.

TREATY OF ALLIANCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

9

ARTICLE SECOND. Le but essentiel et direct de la presente alliance deffensive, est de maintenir efficacement la liberte, la souverainete, et 1'independance absolue et illimitee des dits Etats Unis, tant en matiere politique que de commerce.
ARTICLE TROIS. Les deux parties contractantes feront chacune de leur cote, et de la maniere qu'elles jugeront plus convenable, tous les efforts, qui seront en leur pouvoir, centre leur ennemi commun, afin d'atteindre au but qu'elles se proposent.
ARTICLE QUATRE. Les parties contractantes sont convenues que dans le cas ou 1'une d'entre elles formeroit quelqu' entreprise particuliere, pour laquelle elle desireroit le concours de 1'autre, celle-ci, se preteroit de bonne foi a un concert sur cet objet, autant que les circonstances et sa propre situation pourront le lui permettre, et dans ce cas, on reglera, par une convention particuliere, la portee des secours a fournir, et le terns et la maniere de le faire agir, ainsy que les avantages destines a en former la compensation.
ARTICLE CINQ. Si les Etats Unis jugent a propos de tenter la reduction des isles Bermudes et des parties septentrionales de 1'Amerique, qui sont encore au pouvoir de la Grande Bretagne, les dites isles et contrees, en cas de succes, entreront dans la confederation ou seront dependantes des dits Etats Unis.
ARTICLE SIX. Le Roi tres Chretien renonce a posseder jamais les Bermudes, ni aucune des parties du continent de 1'Amerique septentrionalle, qui, avant le traite de Paris de mil sept cent soixante trois, ou en vertu de ce traite, ont ete reconnues appartenir a la couronne de la Grande Bretagne, ou aux Etats Unis, qu'on appelloit ci-devant colonies Britanniques, ou qui sont maintenant, ou ont ete recemment sous la jurisdiction et sous le pouvoir de la couronne de la Grande Bretagne.
ARTICLE SEPT. Si sa Majeste tres Chretienne juge a propos d'attaquer aucune des isles situees dans le golphe de Mexique ou pres du dit golphe, qui sont actuellement au pouvoir de la Grande Bretagne, toutes les dites isles, en cas de succes, appartiendront a la couronne de France.
ARTICLE HUIT. Aucune des deux parties ne pourra conclure ni treve ni paix avec la Grande Bretagne, sans le consentement prealable et formel de 1'autre partie, et elles s'engagent mutuellement a ne mettre bas les armes, que lorsque 1'independance des dits Etats Unis aura ete assuree formellement ou tacitement par le traite ou les traites qui termineront la guerre.
ARTICLE NEUF. Les parties contractantes declarent, qu'etant resolues de remplir chacune de son cote les clauses et conditions du present traite d'alliance selon son pouvoir et les circonstances, elles n'auront aucune repetition, ni aucun dedommagement, a se demander reciproquement, quelque puisse etre 1'evenement de la guerre.
2

10

TREATY OF ALLIANCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

To admit other powers to accede to the alliance.

ART. X. The Most Christian King and the United States agree, to invite or admit other powers who may have received injuries from England, to make common cause with them, and to accede to the present alliance, under such conditions as shall be freely agreed to, and settled between all the parties.

Mutual guaranty.

ART. XI. The two parties guarantee mutually from the present time, and forever against all other powers, to wit: The United States to his Most Christian Majesty, the present possessions of the crown of France in America, as well as those which it may acquire by the future treaty of peace: And his Most Christian Majesty guarantees on his part to the United States, their liberty, sovereignty and independence, absolute and unlimited, as well in matters of government as commerce, and also their possessions, and the additions or conquests, that their confederation may obtain during the war, from any of the dominions now, or heretofore possessed by Great Britain in North America, conformable to the 5th and 6th articles above written, the whole as their possessions shall be fixed and assured to the said states, at the moment of the cessation of their present war with England.

Guaranty when to commence.

ART. XII. In order to fix more precisely the sense and application of the preceding article, the contracting parties declare, that in case of a rupture between France and England, the reciprocal guarantee declared in the said article, shall have its full force and effect the moment such war shall break out; and if such rupture shall not take place, the mutual obligations of the said guarantee shall not commence until the moment of the cessation of the present war, between the United States and England, shall have ascertained their possessions.

Ratification.

ART. XIII. The present treaty shall be ratified on both sides, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the space of six months, or sooner if possible.

In faith whereof the respective plenipotentiaries, to wit: On the part of the Most Christian king, Conrad Alexander Gerard, Royal Syndic of the city of Strasbourgh, and Secretary of his Majesty's Council of State; and on the part of the United States, Benjamin Franklin, Deputy to the General Congress from the state of Pennsylvania and President of the Convention of the same state; Silas Deane, heretofore Deputy from the state of Connecticut, and Arthur Lee, Councellor at Law, have signed the above articles both in the French and English languages, declaring nevertheless, that the present treaty was originally composed and concluded in the French language, and they have hereunto affixed their seals.

Done at Paris, this sixth day of February, one thousand seven hundred and seventy-eight.

C. A. GERARD, B. FRANKLIN, SILAS DEANE, ARTHUR LEE,

(l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .)

TREATY OF ALLIANCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

11

ARTICLE DIX. Le Roi tres Chretien et les Etats Unis sont convenus d'inviter de concert ou d'admettre les puissances, qui auront des griefs centre 1'Angleterre, a faire cause commune avec eux, et a acceder a la presente alliance, sous les conditions qui seront librement agrees et convenues entre toutes les parties.
ARTICLE ONZE. Les deux parties se garantissent mutuellement des a present et pour toujours envers et centre tous, savoir, les Etats Unis a sa Majeste ties Chretienne les possessions actuelles de la couronne de France en Amerique, ainsy que cedes qu'elle pourra acquerir par le futur traite de paix; Et sa Majeste tres Chretienne, garantit de son cote aux Etats Unis leur liberte, leur souverainete et leur independance absolue et illimitee, tant en matiere de politique que de commerce, ainsy que leurs possessions et les accroissements ou conquetes que leur confederation pourra se procurer pendant la guerre, d'aucun des domaines maintenant ou ci-devant possedes par la Grande Bretagne dans 1'Amerique septentrionale, conformement aux articles cinq et six ci-dessus, et tout ainsy que leurs possessions seront fixees et assurees aux dits Etats, au moment de la cessation de leur guerre actuelle contre 1'Angleterre.
ARTICLE DOUZE. Afin de fixer plus precisement le sens et 1'application de Particle precedent, les parties contractantes declarent qu'en cas de rupture entre la France et 1'Angleterre, la garantie reciproque enoncee dans le susdit article, aura toute sa force et valeur du moment ou la guerre eclatera, et si la rupture n'avoit pas lieu, les obligations mutuelles de la ditte garantie, ne commenceroient, que du moment susdit, ou la cessation de la guerre actuelle entre les Etats Unis et 1'Angleterre aura fixe leurs possessions.
ARTICLE TREIZE. Le present traite sera ratiffie de part et d'autre et les ratifications seront echangees dans 1'espace de six mois ou plustot si faire se peut.

En foi dequoi les plenipotentiaires respectifs, savoir, de la part du Roi tres Chretien le S Conrad, Alexandre Gerard, Sindic Royal de la Ville de Strasbourg et Secretaire du Conseil d'Etat de sa Majeste, et de la part des Etats Unis les Sr'- Benjamin Franklin, Depute au Congres General de la part de 1'etat de Pensylvanie et President de la Convention du meme etat; Siles Deane cy-devant Depute de 1'etat de Connecticut, et Arthur Lee Conseiller es Loir, ont signe les articles ci-dessus, tant en langue Francoise qu'en langue Angloise, declarant neanmoins, que le present traite, a ete originairement redige et arrete en langue Franqoise, et ils les ont munis du cachet de leurs armes.

Fait a Paris, le sixieme jour du mois de Fevrier, mil sept cent soixante dix-huit.

C. A. GERARD, B. FRANKLIN, SILAS DEANE, ARTHUR LEE,

(l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .)

TREATY OF AMITY AND COMMERCE
Between the United States of America and His Most Christian Majesty.

Feb. 6, 1778. Annulled by act of Congress of July 7, 1798, ch. 67.

TREATY OF AMITY AND COMMERCE. The Most Christian King, and the thirteen United States of North America, to wit: New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia, willing to fix in an equitable and permanent manner, the rules which ought to be followed relative to the correspondence and commerce which the two parties desire to establish, between their respective countries, states and subjects, his Most Christian Majesty and the said United States, have judged that the said end could not be better obtained than by taking for the basis of their agreement, the most perfect equality and reciprocity, and by carefully avoiding all those burthensome preferences which are usually sources of debate, embarrassment and discontent; by leaving also each party at liberty to make, respecting commerce and navigation, those interior regulations which it shall find most convenient to itself; and by founding the advantage of commerce solely upon reciprocal utility, and the just rules of free intercourse; reserving withal to each party the liberty of admitting at its pleasure, other nations to a participation of the same advantages. It is in the spirit of this intention, and to fulfil these views, that his said Majesty having named and appointed for his plenipotentiary, Conrad Alexander Gerard, Royal Syndic of the city of Strasbourg, Secretary of his Majesty's Council of State; and the United States on their part, having fully impowered Benjamin Franklin,

Cases decided in the courts of the United States on the provisions of the treaty of amity and commerce with France, of 1778 ; and the consular convention with France, of November 14, 1783 :
The treaty of amity and commerce of 1778 with France, article 11, enabling French subjects to purchase and hold lands in the United States, being abrogated in 1798; the act of Maryland of 1780, permitting the lands of a French subject who had become a citizen of that state, dying intestate, to descend on the next of kin, being a non-naturalized Frenchman, with a proviso vesting the lands in the state, if the French heirs should not within ten years become resident citizens of the state, or convey the lands to a citizen; and the convention of 1800, between France and the United States, enabling the people of one country, holding lands in the other, to dispose of the same by testament, and to inherit lands in the other, without being naturalized: Held, that the latter treaty dispensed with the performance of the condition in the act of Maryland, and that the constitutional rule applied equally to the case of those who took by descent under the act, as to those who acquired by purchase without its aid. Chirac v. Chirac, 2 Wheat. 259 ; 4 Cond. Rep. 111.
The further stipulation in the treaty, " that in case the laws of either of the two states should restrain strangers from the exercise of the rights of property with respect to real estate, such real estate may be sold, or otherwise disposed of, to citizens or inhabitants of the country where it may be," does not affect the rights of a French subject who takes or holds by the convention, so as to deprive him of the power of selling to citizens of the country; and gives to a French subject who has acquired lands by descent or devise, (and, perhaps, in any other manner,) the right during life to sell or otherwise dispose of the same, if lying in a state where lands purchased by an alien, generally, would be immediately escheatable. Ibid.
Although the convention of 1800 has expired, immediately on a descent being cast on a French subject during its continuance, his rights become complete under it, and cannot be affected by its subsequent expiration. Ibid.
(12)'

TRAITE D'AMITIE ET DE COMMERCE
Entre les Etats Unis d 'Amerique et sa Majeste tres Chretienne.

TRAITE D'AMITIE ET DE COMMERCE. Le Roi tres Chretien et les treize Etats Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale, savoir, New Hampshire, la Baye de Massachusset, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pensylvanie, les comtes de Newcastle, de Kent et de Sussex sur la Delaware, Maryland, Virginie, Caroline, Septentrionale, Caroline Meridionale, et Georgie, voulant etablir d'une maniere equitable et permanente les regies qui devront etre suivies relativement a la correspondance et au commerce que les deux parties desirent d'etablir entre leurs Pais Etats et sujets respectifs, sa Majeste tres Chretienne et les dits Etats Unis ont juge ne pouvoir mieux atteindre a ce but qu'en prenant pour base de leur arrangement 1'egalite et la reciprocity la plus parfaite, et en observant d'eviter toutes ]es preferences onereuses, source de discussions, d'embarras, et de mecontentemens, de laisser a chaque partie la liberte de faire, relativement atu commerce et a la navigation les regiemens interieurs qui seront a sa convenance, de ne fonder les avantages du commerce que sur son utilite reciproque et sur les loix d'une juste concurrence, et de conserver ainsi de part et d'autre la liberte de faire participer, chacun selon son gre, les autres nations, aux memes avantages. C'est dans cet esprit et pour remplir ces viies que sa d! Majeste ay ant nomme et constitue pour son plenipotentiaire le S. Conrad Alexandre Gerard, Sindic Roi'al de la ville de Strasbourg, Secretaire du Conseil d'Etat de sa Majeste, et les Etats

America was bound as an ally of France by the capitulation between France and Great Britain for the surrender of Dominica. Miller v. The Ship Resolution, 2 Dall. Rep. 15.
The Phoebe Ann, a British vessel, had been captured by a French privateer, and sent into Charleston. Restitution of the prize was claimed by the British consul, who filed a libel in the district court, suggesting that the privateer had been illegally fitted out, and had illegally augmented her force within the United States. It appeared in proof that the privateer had originally entered the port of Charleston, armed and commissioned for war; and that she had taken out her guns, masts and sails, which remained on shore until the general repairs of the vessel were completed, when they were again put on board, with the same force, or thereabouts; and on a subsequent cruise, the prize was taken.
Ells wort h , Chief Justice. Suggestions of policy and convenience cannot be considered in the judicial determination of a question of right: the treaty with France, whatever that is, must have its effect. By the nineteenth article, it is declared that French vessels, whether public and of war, or private and of merchants, may, on any urgent necessity, enter our ports, and be supplied with all things needful for repairs. In the present case, the privateer only underwent a repair ; and the mere replacement of her force cannot be a material augmentation ; even if an augmentation of force could be proven, which we do not decide a sufficient cause of restitution. Moodie v. The Sloop Phoebe Ann, 2 Dall. Rep. 319 ; 1 Cond. Rep. 139.
The appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the United States extends to a final judgment or decree in any suit in the highest court of the United States, where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty, and the judgment or decree is against the validity of the right claimed under the treaty; and such judgment may be re-examined by writ of error, in the same manner as if rendered in a circuit court. Martin v. Hunter's lessee, 1 Wheat. 104 ; 3 Cond. Rep. 575.
By the treaty with France of 1778, articles 17 and 22, the subjects of France had a right to equip and arm their vessels in the ports of the United States, to bring in their prizes and depart with them, without interference by the courts of the United States. Bee's Admiralty Reports, 40, 43.

B

(13)

14

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

Deputy from the state of Pennsylvania to the General Congress, and President of the Convention of said state; Silas Deane, late Deputy from the state of Connecticut to the said Congress, and Arthur Lee, Councellor at Law; the said respective plenipotentiaries after exchanging their powers, and after mature deliberation, have concluded and agreed upon the following articles.

Peace and friendship between the two nations.

ARTICLE I. There shall be a firm, inviolable and universal peace, and a true and sincere friendship between the Most Christian King, his heirs and successors, and the United States of America; and the subjects of the Most Christian King and of the said States; and between the countries, islands, cities and towns, situate under the jurisdiction of the Most Christian King and of the said United States, and the people and inhabitants of every degree, without exception of persons or places ; and the terms hereinafter mentioned shall be perpetual between the Most Christian King, his heirs and successors, and the said United States.

Neither party to grant favors to other nations that shall not become common to the other party.

ARTICLE II.
The Most Christian King and the United States, engage mutually not to grant any particular favour to other nations, in respect of commerce and navigation, which shall not immediately become common to the other party, who shall enjoy the same favour, freely, if the concession was freely made, or on allowing the same compensation, if the concession was conditional.

Subjects of the King of France entitled to the same privileges in the United States as the most favored nations.

ARTICLE III. The subjects of the Most Christian King shall pay in the ports, havens, roads, countries, islands, cities, or towns, of the United States, or any of them, no other, or greater duties, or imposts, of what nature soever they may be, or by what name soever called, than those which the nations most favoured are or shall be obliged to pay; and they shall enjoy all the rights, liberties, privileges, immunities, and exemptions in trade, navigation and commerce, whether in passing from one port in the said states to another, or in going to and from the same, from and to any part of the world, which the said nations do or shall enjoy.

Citizens of the U. S. entitled to the same privileges in the dominions of France, as the most favored nations.

ARTICLE IV. The subjects, people and inhabitants of the said United States, and each of them, shall not pay in the ports, havens, roads, isles, cities and places under the domination of his Most Christian Majesty, in Europe, any other, or greater duties or imposts, of what nature soever they may be, or by what name soever called, than those which the most favoured nations are or shall be obliged to pay; and they shall enjoy all the rights, liberties, privileges, immunities, and exemptions in trade, navigation and commerce, whether in passing from one port in the said dominions, in Europe, to another, or in going to and from the same, from and to any part of the world, which the said nations do or shall enjoy.

Particular exemption.

ARTICLE V.
In the above exemption is particularly comprised, the imposition of one hundred sols per ton, established in France on foreign ships; unless when the ships of the United States shall load with the merchandize of France for another port of the same dominion, in which case the said ships shall pay the duty above mentioned so long as other nations the most favoured shall be obliged to pay it. But it is understood that the said United States, or any of them, are at liberty when they shall judge it proper, to establish a duty equivalent in the same case.

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

15

Unis aiant, de leur cote, munis de leurs pieins pouvoirs les S. Benjamin Franklin, Depute au Congres General de la part de 1'Etat de Pensylvanie, et President de la Convention du d! Etat, Silas Deane ci-devant Depute de 1'Etat de Connecticut, et Arthur Lee, Conseiller es Loir, les de plenipotentiaires respectifs apres 1'echange de leurs pouvoirs et apres mure deliberation ont conclu et arrete les points et articles suivans.
ARTICLE I. Il y aura une paix ferme, inviolable et universelle et une amitie vraie et sincere entre Le Roi tres Chretien ses heritiers et successeurs, et entre les Etats Unis de 1'Amerique ainsi qu'entre les sujets de sa Majeste tres Chretienne et ceux des dits Etats, comme aussi entre les peuples, isles, villes et places situes sous la jurisdiction duRoi tres Chretien et des dits Etats Unis, et entre leurs peuples et habitans de toutes les classes, sans aucune exception de personnes et de lieux; les conditions mentionnees au present traite seront perpetuelles et permanentes entre Le Roi tres Chretien, ses heritiers et successeurs, et les dits Etats Unis.
ARTICLE II. Le Roi tres Chretien et les Etats Unis s'engagent mutuellement a n'accorder aucune faveur particuliere a d'autres nations, en fait de commerce et de navigation, qui ne devienne ausitot commune a 1'autre partie, et celle-ci jouira de cette faveur gratuitement, si la concession est gratuite, ou en accordant la meme compensation, si la concession est conditionnelle.
ARTICLE III. Les sujets du Roi tres Chretien ne paieront dans les ports, havres, rades, contrees, isles, cites et lieux des Etats Unis ou d'aucun d'entr'eux, d'autres ni plus grands droits ou impots, de quelque nature qu'ils puissent etre, et quelque nom qu'ils puissent avoir que ceux que les nations les plus favorisees sont, ou seront tenues de paier; Et ils jouiront de tous les droits, libertes, privileges, immunites et exemtions en fait de negoce, navigation et commerce, soit en passant d'un port des dits Etats a un autre; soit en y allant ou en revenant de quelque partie ou pour quelque partie du monde que ce soit, dont les de nations jouis'sent ou jouiront.
ARTICLE IV. Les sujets, peuples et habitans des d? Etats Unis et de chacun d'iceux ne paieront dans les ports, havres, rades, isles, villes et places de la domination de sa Majeste tres Chretienne en Europe d'autres ni plus grands droits ou impots de quelque nature qu'ils puissent etre et quelque nom qu'ils puissent avoir que les nations les plus favorisees sont, ou seront tenues de paier, et ils jouiront. de tous les droits, libertes, privileges, immunites et exemtions en fait de negoce, navigation et commerce soit en passant d'un port a un autre des dits Etats du Roi tres Chretien en Europe, soit en y allant ou en revenant de quelque partie ou pour quelque partie du monde que ce soit, dont les nations susd? jouissent ou jouiront.
ARTICLE V. Dans 1'exemtion ci-dessus est nommement compris 1'imposition de cent sous par tonneau etablie en France sur les navires etrangers, si ce n'est lorsque les navires des Etats Unis chargeront des marchandises de France, dans un port de France, pour un autre port de la meme domination, auquel cas les d? navires des d? Etats Unis acquiteront le droit dont il s'agit aussi long terns que les autres nations les plus favorisees seront obligees de 1'acquiter. Bien entendu qu'il sera libre aux dits Etats Unis, ou a aucun d'iceux d'etablir, quand ils le jugeront apropos, un droit equivalent a celui dont il est question pour le meme cas pour lequel il est etabli dans les ports de sa. Majeste tres Chretienne.

16

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

France to protect vessels of citizens of the United States in her jurisdiction, to restore them when captured, and to convoy vessels in certain cases. United States to do the same. The King of France to aid the U. States to make treaties with the Barbary powers.

ARTICLE VI. The Most Christian King shall endeavour by all the means in his power to protect and defend all vessels and the effects belonging to the subjects, people or inhabitants of the said United States, or any of them, being in his ports, havens, or roads, or on the seas near to his countries, islands, cities or towns, and to recover and restore to the right owners, their agent or attornies, all such vessels and effects, which shall be taken within his jurisdiction; and the ships of war of his Most Christian Majesty, or any convoy sailing under his authority, shall upon all occasions take under their protection, all vessels belonging to the subjects, people or inhabitants of the said United States, or any of them, and holding the same course, or going the same way, and shall defend such vessels as long as they hold the same course, or go the same way, against all attacks, force and violence, in the same manner as they ought to protect and defend the vessels belonging to the subjects of the Most Christian King.
ARTICLE VII.
In like manner the said United States and their ships of war, sailing under their authority, shall protect and defend, conformable to the tenor of the preceding article, all the vessels and effects belonging to the subjects of the Most Christian King, and use all their endeavours to recover, and cause to be restored, the said vessels and effects that shall have been taken within the jurisdiction of the said United States, or any of them.
ARTICLE VIII. The Most Christian King will employ his good offices and interposition with the King or Emperor of Morocco or Fez, the regencies of Algier, Tunis, and Tripoli, or with any of them; and also with every other Prince, State or Power, of the coast of Barbary, in Africa, and the subjects of the said King, Emperor, States and Powers, and each of them, in order to provide as fully and efficaciously as possible for the benefit, conveniency and safety of the said United States, and each of them, their subjects, people and inhabitants, and their vessels and effects against all violence, insult, attacks, or depredations, on the part of the said Princes, and States of Barbary, or their subjects.

Subjects of either party shall not fish in the dominions of the other.

ARTICLE IX. The subjects, inhabitants, merchants, commanders of ships, masters and mariners of the states, provinces and dominions of each party respectively shall abstain and forbear to fish in all places possessed, or which shall be possessed by the other party; the Most Christian King's subjects shall not fish in the havens, bays, creeks, roads, coasts or places, which the said United States hold, or shall hereafter hold, and in like manner the subjects, people and inhabitants of the said United States, shall not fish in the havens, bays, creeks, roads, coasts or places, which the Most Christian King possesses, or shall hereafter possess; and if any ship or vessel shall be found fishing contrary to the tenor of this treaty, the said ship or vessel, with its lading, proof being made thereof, shall be confiscated; it is however understood that the exclusion stipulated in the present article, shall take place only so long, and so far as the Most Christian King, or the United States, shall not in this respect have granted an exemption to some other nation.

ARTICLE X. The United States, their citizens and inhabitants shall never disturb the subjects of the Most Christian King in the enjoyment and exercise

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

17

ARTICLE VI. Le Roi tres Chretien fera usage de tous les moiens qui sont en son pouvoir, pour proteger et defendre tous les vaisseaux et effets apartenants, aux sujets, peuples et habitans des dits Etats Unis et de chacun d'iceux qui seront dans ses ports, havres, ou rades, ou dans les mers pres de ses pays, contrees, isles, villes et places, et fera tous ses efforts pour recouvrer et faire restituer aux proprietaires legitimes, leurs agens ou mandataires, tous les vaisseaux et effets qui leur seront pris dans 1'etendue de sa jurisdiction: Et les vaisseaux de guerre de sa Majeste tres Chretienne ou les convois quelconques faisant voile sous son autorite, prendront, en toute occasion, sous leur protection tous les vaisseaux apartenants aux sujets, peuples et habitans des d? Etats Unis ou d'aucun d'iceux, les quels tiendront le meme cours, et feront la meme route, et ils defendront les dits vaisseaux aussi longtems qu'ils tiendront le meme cours et suivront la meme route, contre toute attaque force ou violence de la meme maniere qu'ils sont tenus de defendre et de proteger les vaisseaux appartenans aux sujets de sa Majeste tres Chretienne.
ARTICLE VII. Pareillement les dits Etats Unis et leurs vaisseaux de guerre faisant voile sous leur autorite protegeront et defendront conformement au contenu de Fart? precedent, tous les vaisseaux et effets apartenants aux sujets du Roi tres Chretien, et feront tous leurs efforts pour recouvrer et faire restituer les dits vaisseaux et effets qui auront ete pris dans 1'etendiie de la jurisdiction des dits Etats et de chacun d'iceux.
ARTICLE VIII. Le Roi tres Chretien emplo'iera ses bons offices et son entremise aupres des Roi ou Empereur de Maroc ou Fez, des Regences d'Alger, Tunis et Tripoli, ou aupres aucune d'entr elles ainsi qu' aupres de tout autre Prince, Etat, ou Puissance des cotes de Barbarie en Affrique et des sujets des d? Roi, Empereur, Etats et Puissance etde chacun d'iceux a 1'effet de pourvoir aussi pleinement et aussi efficacement qu'il sera possible a 1'avantage commodite et surete des dits Etats Unis et de chacun d'iceux, ainsi que de leurs sujets, peuples et habitans leurs vaisseaux et effets contre toute violence, insulte, attaque ou depredations de la part des d? Princes et Etats Barbaresques ou de leurs sujets.
ARTICLE IX. Les sujets, habitans, marchands, commandans des navires, maitres et gens de mer, des etats, provinces et domaines des deux parties, s'abstiendront et eviteront reciproquement de pecher dans toutes les places possedees, ou qui seront possedees par 1'autre partie. Les sujets de sa Majeste tres Chretienne ne pecheront pas dans les havres, bayes, criques, rades, cotes et places que les dits Etats Unis, possedent ou possederont a 1'avenir; et de la meme maniere les sujets, peuples et habitans des d? Etats Unis ne pecheront pas dans les havres, bayes, criques, rades, cotes et places que sa Majeste tres Chretienne possede actuellement ou possedera a 1'avenir, et si quelque navire ou batiment etoit surpris pechant en violation du present traite, le dit navire ou batiment et sa cargaison seront confisques apres que la preuve en aura ete faite diiement. Bien entendu que 1'exclusion stipulee dans le present article n'aura lieu qu'autant, et si longtems que le Roi et les Etats Unis n'auront point accorde a cet egard d'exception a quelque nation que ce puisse etre.

ARTICLE X.

Les Etats Unis, leurs citoiens et habitans ne troubleront jamais les

sujets du Roi tres Chretien dans la jouissance et exercice du droit de

3

b2

18

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

Citizens of U. S. shall not disturb subjects of France in their right of fishing on banks of Newfoundland. Citizens of U. S. exempted from droit d'aubaine, and may dispose of their estate.
Subjects of France have similar privileges.

of the right of fishing on the banks of Newfoundland, nor in the indefinite and exclusive right which belongs to them on that part of the coast of that island which is designed by the treaty of Utrecht, nor in the rights relative to all, and each of the isles which belong to his Most Christian Majesty, the whole conformable to the true sense of the treaties of Utrecht and Paris.
(a) ARTICLE XI. The subjects and inhabitants of the said United States, or any one of them, shall not be reputed aubains in France, and consequently shall be exempted from the droit d' aubaine, or other similar duty under what name soever. They may by testament, donation, or otherwise, dispose of their goods, moveable and immoveable, in favour of such persons as to them shall seem good, and their heirs, subjects of the said United States, residing whether in France or elsewhere, may succeed them ab intestat, without being obliged to obtain letters of naturalization, and without having the effect of this concession contested or impeded under pretext of any rights or prerogative of provinces, cities, or private persons; and the said heirs, whether such by particular title, or ab intestat, shall be exempt from all duty called droit de detraction, or other duty of the same kind, saving nevertheless the local rights or duties as much, and as long as similar ones are not established by the United States, or any of them. The subjects of the Most Christian King shall enjoy on their part in all the dominions of the said States, an entire and perfect reciprocity relative to the stipulations contained in the present article, but it is at the same time agreed that its contents shall not affect the laws made, or that may be made hereafter in France against emigra-

(a) The two following Articles were originally agreed to, but afterwards rescinded; to wit: ARTICLE XI.
It is agreed and concluded that there shall never be any duty imposed on the exportation of the melasses that may be taken by the subjects of any of the United States, from the islands of America which belong, or may hereafter appertain to his Most Christian Majesty.
ARTICLE XII. In compensation of the exemption stipulated by the preceding article, it is agreed and concluded, that there shall never be any duties imposed on the exportation of any kind of merchandize which the subjects of his Most Christian Majesty may take from the countries and possessions, present or future, of any of the Thirteen United States, for the use of the islands which shall furnish melasses.
Act of France rescinding the foregoing articles: The General Congress of the United States of North America, having represented to the King that the execution of the eleventh article of the treaty of Amity and Commerce, signed the sixth of February last, might be productive of inconveniences ; and having therefore desired the suppression of this article, consenting in return that the twelfth article shall likewise be considered of no effect: His Majesty in order to give a new proof of his affection, as also of his desire to consolidate the union and good correspondence established between the two States, has been pleased to consider their representations: His Majesty has consequently declared, and does declare by these presents, that he consents to the suppression of the eleventh and twelfth articles aforementioned, and that his intention is, that they be considered as having never been comprehended in the treaty signed the sixth of February last.
Done at Versailles the first day of the month of September, one thousand seven hundred and seventy-eight. Gravie r de Verge nnes .
Act of the United States rescinding the foregoing articles: DECLARATION.
The Most Christian King having been pleased to regard the representations made to him by the General Congress of North America, relating to the eleventh article of the treaty of commerce, signed the sixth of February, in the present year; and his majesty having therefore consented that the said article should be suppressed, on condition that the twelfth article of the same treaty be equally regarded as of none effect; the abovesaid General Congress hath declared on their part, and do declare, that they consent to the suppression of the eleventh and twelfth articles of the above-mentioned treaty, and that their intention is, that these articles be regarded as having never been comprised in the treaty signed the sixth of February. In faith whereof, &c.
B. Frank lin , Art hur Lee , John Adams .

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

19

peche sur les bancs de Terre neuve, non plus que dans la jouissance indefinie et exclusive qui leur apartient sur la partie des cotes de cette isle, designee dans le traite d'Utrecht, ni dans les droits relatifs a toutes et chacune des isles qui appartiennent a sa Majeste tres Chretienne; le tout conformement au veritable sens des traites d'Utrecht et de Paris.

(a) ARTICLE XI. Les sujets et habitans des dits Etats Unis ou de 1'un d'eux ne seront point reputes aubains en France, et consequemment seront exemts du droit d'aubaine ou autre droit semblable quelque nom qu'il puisse avoir; pourront disposer par testament, donation, ou autrement de leurs biens meubles et immeubles en faveur de telles personnes que bon leur semblera; et leurs heritiers, sujets des dits Etats Unis, residans soit en France soit ailleurs, pourront leur succeder ab intestat, sans qu'ils a'ient besoin d'obtenir des lettres de naturalite, et sans que 1'effet de cette concession leur puisse etre conteste ou empeche sous pretexte de quelques droits ou prerogatives des provinces villes ou personnes privees. Et seront les dits heritiers soit a titre particulier soit ab intestat exemts de tout droit de detraction ou autre droit de ce.genre; sauf neanmoins les droits locaux tant, et si longtems, qu'il n'en sera point etabli de pareils par les dits Etats Unis ou aucun d'iceux. Les sujets du Roi tres Chretien jouiront de leur cote dans tous les domaines des dits Etats d'une entiere et parfaite reciprocite relativement aux stipulations renfermees dans le present article. Mais il est convenu en meme terns que son contenu ne portera aucune atteinte aux loix promulguees en France centre les emigrations, ou qui pourront etre promulguees dans la suite,

(a) Les deux articles suivans avaient ete originairement convenus, mais ils out ete depuis revoques,

savoir:

ARTICLE XI.

Il est convenu et arrete qu'il ne sera jamais impose aucun droit sur 1'exportation des melasses qui pourront etre tirees par les sujets d'aucun des Etats Unis des isles d'Amerique qui appartiennent ou pourront apartenir a sa Majeste tres Chretienne.

ARTICLE XII.

En compensation de 1'exemtion stipulee par 1'article precedent, il est convenu et arrete qu'il ne sera jamais impose aucun droit sur 1'exportation d'aucune espece de denrees et marchandises que les sujets de sa Majeste tres Chretienne pourront tirer des pays ou possessions actuelles ou futures d'aucun des Treize Etats Unis pour 1'usage des isles qui fournissent les melasses.

Acte de la France revoquant les articles precedens. Le Congres General des Etats Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale ayant represent^ au Roi que Pexecution de Particle onze du traite d'Amitie et de Commerce, signe le six du moisde Fevrier dernier, pourroit entrainer des inconvenients apres soi, et ayant desire en consequence que cet article demeurat suprime ; consentant en echange que Particle douze soit egalement regarde comme non avenu, sa Majeste, pour donner aux Etats Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale une nouvelle preuve de son affection, ainsi que de son desir de consolider Punion et la bonne correspondence etablies entre les deux Etats, a bien voulu avoir egard a leurs representations; En consequence sa Majeste a declare et declare par les presentes, qu'elle consent a la suppression des articles onze et douze susmentionnes, et que son intention est, qu'ils soient regardes comme n'ayant jamais ete compris dans le traite signe le six Fevrier dernier.
Fait a Versailles le premier jour du mois de Septembre mil sept cent soixante et dix-huit.

Grav ier de Verge nnes ,
Acte des Etats Unis revoquant les articles precedens.
DECLARATION. Le Roi tres Chretien ayant bien voulu avoir egard aux representations que lui a faites le Congres General de 1'Amerique Septentrionale, relativement a Particle 11 du traite de commerce, signe le 6 Fevrier de la presente annee; et S. M. ayant consenti en consequence que le dit article demeurat supprime a condition que Particle 12 du meme traite fut egalement regarde comme non avenu; le Congres General a declare son cote et declare qu'il consent a la suppression des articles 11 et 12 susmentionnes, et son intention est, qu'ils soient regardes comme n'ayant jamais ete compris dans le traite signe le six Fevrier dernier.
B. Franklin , Art hur Lee , John Ada ms .

20

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

tions which shall remain in all their force and vigour, and the United States on their part, or any of them, shall be at liberty to enact such laws, relative to that matter, as to them shall seem proper.

Ships suspected shall exhibit passports and certificates.

ARTICLE XII. The merchant ships of either of the parties which shall be making into a port belonging to the enemy of the other ally, and concerning whose voyage, and the species of goods on board her, there shall be just grounds of suspicion, shall be obliged to exhibit as well upon the high seas, as in the ports and havens, not only her passports, but likewise certificates, expressly shewing that her goods are not of the number of those which have been prohibited as contraband.

How to proceed in case of contraband goods.

ARTICLE XIII. If by the exhibiting of the abovesaid certificates, the other party discover there are any of those sorts of goods which are prohibited and declared contraband, and consigned for a port under the obedience of his enemies, it shall not be lawful to break up the hatches of such ship, or to open any chest, coffers, packs, casks, or any other vessels found therein, or to remove the smallest parcels of her goods, whether such ship belongs to the subjects of France, or the inhabitants of the said United States, unless the lading be brought on shore in the presence of the officers of the court of admiralty, and an inventory thereof made; but there shall be no allowance to sell, exchange or alienate the same, in any manner, untill after that due and lawful process shall have been had against such prohibited goods, and the court of admiralty shall by a sentence pronounced have confiscated the same; saving always as well the ship itself as any other goods found therein, which by this treaty are to be esteemed free, neither may they be detained on pretence of their being as it were infected by the prohibited goods, much less shall they be confiscated, as lawful prize: but if not the whole cargo, but only part thereof shall consist of prohibited or contraband goods, and the commander of the ship shall be ready and willing to deliver them to the captor, who has discovered them, in such case, the captor having received those goods, shall forthwith discharge the ship, and not hinder her by any means, freely to prosecute the voyage on which she was bound. But in case the contraband merchandises cannot be all received on board the vessel of the captor, then the captor may, notwithstanding the offer of delivering him the contraband goods, carry the vessel into the nearest port agreeable to what is above directed.

Goods found in an enemy's ship may be confiscated, unless put on
board before declaration of war,
or within two months after.

ARTICLE XIV.
On the contrary it is agreed, that whatever shall be found to be laden by the subjects and inhabitants of either party on any ship belonging to the enemys of the other, or to their subjects, the whole although it be not of the sort of prohibited goods, may be confiscated in the same manner as if it belonged to the enemy,except such goods and merchandizes as were put on board such ship before the declaration of war, or even after such declaration, if so be it were done without knowledge of such declaration, so that the goods of the subjects and people of either party, whether they be of the nature of such as are prohibited or otherwise, which as is aforesaid, were put on board any ship belonging to an enemy before the war or after the declaration of the same, without the knowledge of it, shall no ways be liable to confiscation, but shall well and truely be restored without delay to the proprietors demanding the same; but so as that if the said merchandizes be contraband it shall not be any ways lawful to carry them afterwards to any ports belonging to the enemy. The two contracting parties agree,that the term of two

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

21

les quelles demeureront dans toute leur force et vigueur. Les Etats Unis de leur cote ou aucun d'entr' eux, seront libres de statiier sur cette matiere telle loi qu'ils jugeront apropos.

ARTICLE XII. Les navires marchands des deux parties qui seront destines pour des ports appartenants a une puissance ennemie de 1'autre allie et dont le voiage ou la nature des marchandises dont ils seront charges donneroit de justes soupgons, seront tenus d'exhiber soit en haute mer, soit dans les ports et havres, non seulement leurs passeports mais encore les certificats qui constateront expressement que leur chargement n'est pas de la qualite de ceux qui sont prohibes comine contrebande.

ARTICLE XIII.
Si 1'exhibition des dits certificats conduit a. decouvrir que le navire porte des marchandises prohibees et reputees contrebande, consignees pour un port ennemi, il ne sera pas permis de briser les ecoutilles des dits navires, ni d'ouvrir aucune caisse, coffre, malle, ballots, tonneaux et autres caisses qui s'y trouveront, ou d'en deplacer et detourner la moindre partie des marchandises soit que le navire apartienne aux sujets du Roi tres Chretien ou aux habitans des Etats Unis, jusqu' a ce que la cargaison ait ete mise a terre en presence des officiers des cours d' amiraute, et que 1'inventaire en ait ete fait; mais on ne permettra pas de vendre, echanger ou aliener les navires ou leur cargaison en maniere quelconque, avant que le proces ait ete fait et parfait legalement pour declarer la contrebande, et que les cours d'amiraute auront prononce leur confiscation par jugement, sans prejudice neanmoins des navires, ainsi que des marchandises qui en vertu du traite doivent etre censees libres. Il ne sera pas permis de retenir ces marchandises sous pretexte qu'elles ont ete entachees par les marchandises de contrebande et bien moins encore de les confisquer comme des prises legales. Dans le cas ou une partie seulement et non la totalite du chargement consisteroit en marchandises de contrebande, et que le commandant du vaisseau consente a les delivrer au corsaire qui les aura decouvertes, alors le capitaine qui aura fait la prise, apres avoir regu ces marchandises, doit incontinent relacher le navire et ne doit 1'empecher en aucune maniere de continuer son voiage. Mais dans le cas ou les marchandises de contrebande ne pourroient pas etre toutes chargees sur le vaisseau capteur, alors le capitaine du d? vaisseau sera le maitre, malgre 1'offre de remettre la contrebande, de conduire le patron dans le plus prochain port, conformement a ce qui est prescrit plus haut.
ARTICLE XIV. On est convenu au contraire que tout ce qui se trouvera charge par les sujets respectifs sur des navires apartenants aux ennemis de 1'autre partie ou a leurs sujets sera confisque sans distinction des marchandises prohibees ou non prohibees, ainsi et de meme que si elles appartenoient a 1'ennemi, a 1'exception toute fois, des effets et marchandises qui auront ete mis a bord des dits navires avant la declaration de guerre, ou meme apres la de declaration, si au moment du chargement on a pu 1'ignorer, de maniere que les marchandises des sujets des deux parties, soit qu'elles se trouvent du nombre de celles de contrebande ou autrement, les quelles comme il vient d'etre dit, auront ete mises a bord d'un vaisseau apartenant a 1'ennemi, avant la guerre ou meme apres la d? declaration, lorsqu'on 1'ignoroit, ne seront en aucune maniere, sujetes a confiscation, mais seront fidelement et de bonne foi rendiies sans delai a leurs proprietaires, qui les reclameront; bien entendu neanmoins qu'il ne soit pas permis de portee dans les ports ennemis les marchandises qui seront de contrebande. Les deux parties contractantes conviennent que le

22

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

months being passed after the declaration of war, their respective subjects, from whatever part of the world they come, shall not plead the ignorance mentioned in this article.

Ships of war and privateers to do no injury to either party; if they do, to be punished and make reparation to the party injured.

ARTICLE XV. And that more effectual care may be taken for the security of the subjects and inhabitants of both parties, that they suffer no injury by the men of war or privateers of the other party, all the commanders of the ships of his Most Christian Majesty and of the said United States, and all their subjects and inhabitants, shall be forbid doing any injury or damage to the other side; and if they act to the contrary they shall be punished, and shall moreover be bound to make satisfaction for all matter of damage, and the interest thereof, by reparation, under the pain and obligation of their person and goods.

All ships and merchandize rescued out of the hands of pirates to be restored.

ARTICLE XVI. All ships and merchandizes of what nature soever, which shall be rescued out of the hands of any pirates or robbers on the high seas, shall be brought into some port of either state, and shall be delivered to the custody of the officers of that port, in order to be restored entire to the true proprietor, as soon as due and sufficient proof shall be made concerning the property thereof.

Prizes may be carried into the ports of either party. No shelter shall be given to the captors of prizes from either party.

ARTICLE XVII.
It shall be lawful for the ships of war of either party, and privateers, freely to carry whithersoever they please, the ships and goods taken
from their enemies, without being obliged to pay any duty to the officers
of the admiralty or any other judges; nor shall such prizes be arrested or seized when they come to and enter the ports of either party; nor shall the searchers or other officers of those places search the same, or make examination concerning the lawfulness of such prizes; but they may hoist sail at any time, and depart and carry their prizes to the places expressed in their commissions, which the commanders of such ships of war shall be obliged to show: on the contrary, no shelter or refuge shall be given in their ports to such as shall have made prize of the subjects, people or property of either of the parties; but if such shall come in, being forced by stress of weather, or the danger of the sea, all proper means shall be vigorously used, that they go out and retire from thence as soon as possible.

In case of shipwreck, relief to be afforded.

ARTICLE XVIII. If any ship belonging to either of the parties, their people or subjects, shall within the coasts or dominions of the other, stick upon the sands, or be wrecked, or suffer any other damage, all friendly assistance and relief shall be given to the persons shipwrecked, or such as shall be in danger thereof. And letters of safe conduct shall likewise be given to them for their free and quiet passage from thence and the return of every one to his own country.

When vessels by stress of weather, &c. are forced into ports, &c. they shall be protected and permitted to depart.

ARTICLE XIX. In case the subjects and inhabitants of either party, with their ship, ping, whether publick and of war, or private and of merchants, be forced through stress of weather, pursuit of pirates, or enemies, or any other urgent necessity for seeking of shelter and harbour, to retreat and enter into any of the rivers, bays, roads or ports belonging to the other party, they shall be received and treated with all humanity and kindness, and enjoy all friendly protection and help; and they shall be permitted to refresh and provide themselves, at reasonable rates, with victuals and all things needful for the sustenance of their persons, or

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

23

terme de deux mois, passes depuis la declaration de guerre, leurs sujets respectifs, de quelque partie du monde qu'ils viennent ne pourront plus alleguer 1'ignorance dont il est question dans le present article.
ARTICLE XV. Et afin de pourvoir plus efficacement a la surete des sujets des deux parties contractantes, pour qu'il ne leur soit fait aucun prejudice par les vaisseaux de guerre de 1'autre partie ou par des armateurs particuliers, il sera fait defense a tous capitaines des vaisseaux de sa Majeste tres Chretienne et des dits Etats Unis, et a tous leurs sujets de faire aucun dommage ou insulte a ceux de 1'autre partie, et au cas ou ils y centreviendroient, ils en seront punis; et, de plus, ils seront tenus et obliges en leurs personnes et en leurs biens de reparer tous les dommages et interets.
ARTICLE XVI. Tous vaisseaux et marchandises de quelque nature que ce puisse etre, lors qu'ils auront ete enleves des mains de quelques pirates en pleine mer, seront amenes dans quelque port de 1'un des deux Etats, et seront remis a la garde des officiers du dit port afin d'etre rendus, en entier, a leur veritable proprietaire, aussitot qu'il aura diiement et sufisament fait conster de sa propriete.
ARTICLE XVII. Les vaisseaux de guerre de sa Majeste tres Chretienne et ceux des Etats Unis, de meme que ceux que leurs sujets auront armes en guerre, pourront, en toute liberte, conduire ou bon leur semblera les prises qu'ils auront faites sur leurs ennemis, sans etre obliges a aucuns droits, soit des sieurs amiraux ou de 1'amiraute ou d'aucuns autres, sans qu'aussi les dits vaisseaux ou les d? prises, entrant dans les havres ou ports de sa Majeste tres Chretienne ou des dits Etats Unis, puissent etre arretes ou saisis, ni que les officiers des lieux puissent prendre connoissance de la validite des d? prises, les quelles pourront sortir et etre conduites franchement et en toute liberte, aux lieux portes par les commissions dont les capitaines des dits vaisseaux seront obliges de faire aparoir. Et au contraire, ne sera donne asile ni retraite dans leurs ports ou havres a ceux qui auront fait des prises sur les sujets de sa Majeste ou des dits Etats Unis; et s'ils sont forces d'y entrer par tempete ou peril de la mer, on les fera sortir le plustot qu'il sera possible.
ARTICLE XVIII. Dans le cas ou un vaisseau apartenant a 1'un des deux Etats ou a leurs sujets, aura echoue, fait naufrage ou souffert quelqu' autre dommage sur les cotes ou sous la domination de I'une des deux parties, il sera donne toute aide et assistance amiable aux personnes naufragees ou qui se trouvent en danger, et il leur sera accorde des sauf conduits pour assurer leur passage et leur retour dans leur patrie.

ARTICLE XIX. Lorsque les sujets et habitans de I'une des deux parties avec leurs vaisseaux soit publics et de guerre, soit particuliers et marchands, seront forces par une tempete, par la poursuite des pirates et des ennemis, ou par quelqu' autre necessite urgente, de chercher refuge et un abri, de se retirer et entrer dans quelqu' une des rivieres, bayes, rades ou ports de I'une des deux parties, ils seront re^us et traites avec humanite, et jouiront de toute amitie, protection et assistance, et il leur sera permis de se pourvoir de raffraichissemens, de vivres, et de toutes choses necessaires pour leur subsistance, pour la reparation de leurs vaisseaux, et

24

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

reparation of their ships, and conveniency of their voyage; and they shall no ways be detained or hindered from returning out of the said ports or roads, but may remove and depart when and whither they please, without any let or hindrance.

In case of war, six months shall be allowed to citizens of each party residing in the other's dominion to sell and remove their effects.

ARTICLE XX. For the better promoting of commerce on both sides, it is agreed, that if a war shall break out between the said two nations, six months after the proclamation of war, shall be allowed to the merchants in the cities and towns where they live for selling and transporting their goods and merchandizes; and if any thing be taken from them, or any injury be done them within that term by either party, or the people or subjects of either, full satisfaction shall be made for the same.

Citizens of neither party shall take commissions or letters of marque from any prince or state with whom the other is at war, to act as privateers.

ARTICLE XXI. No subjects of the Most Christian King shall apply for or take any commission, or letters of marque, for arming any ship or ships to act as privateers against the said United States, or any of them, or against the subjects, people or inhabitants of the said United States, or any of them, or against the property of any of the inhabitants of any of them, from any Prince or State with which the said United States shall be at war; nor shall any citizen, subject, or inhabitant of the said United States, or any of them, apply for or take any commission or letters of marque for arming any ship or ships, to act as privateers against the subjects of the Most Christian King, or any of them, or the property of any of them, from any Prince or State with which the said King shall be at war; and if any person of either nation shall take such commissions or letters of marque, he shall be punished as a pirate.

Foreign privateers not allowed to be fitted out, or to sell their prizes in the ports of either party.

ARTICLE XXII. It shall not be lawful for any foreign privateers, not belonging to subjects of the Most Christian King, nor citizens of the said United States, who have commissions from any other Prince or State in enmity with either nation, to fit their ships in the ports of either the one or the other of the aforesaid parties, to sell what they have taken, or in any other manner whatsoever to exchange their ships, merchandizes, or any other lading; neither shall they be allowed even to purchase victuals, except such as shall be necessary for their going to the next port of that Prince or State from which they have commissions.

Liberty for either party to trade with a nation at war with the other.

ARTICLE XXIII. It shall be lawful for all and singular the subjects of the Most Christian King, and the citizens, people and inhabitants of the said United States, to sail with their ships with all manner of liberty and security, no distinction being made, who are the proprietors of the merchandizes laden thereon, from any port to the places of those who now are or hereafter shall be at enmity with the Most Christian King, or the United States. It shall likewise be lawful for the subjects and inhabitants aforesaid, to sail with the ships and merchandizes aforementioned, and to trade with the same liberty and security from the places, ports and havens of those who are enemies of both or either party, without any opposition or disturbance whatsoever, not only directly from the places of the enemy aforementioned to neutral places, but also from one place belonging to an enemy, to another place belonging to an enemy, whether they be under the jurisdiction of the same Prince, or under several. And it is hereby stipulated, that free ships shall also give a freedom to

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

25

pour continuer leur voiage; le tout moiennant un prix raisonable, et ils ne seront retenus en aucune maniere, ni empeches de sortir des dits ports ou rades, mais pourront se retirer et partir quand, et comme il leur plaira, sans aucun obstacle ni empechement.

ARTICLE XX. Afin de promouvoir d'autant mieux le commerce de deux cotes, il est convenu que dans le cas ou la guerre surviendroit entre les deux nations susdites, il sera accorde six mois, apres la declaration de guerre, aux marchands dans les villes et cites qu'ils habitent, pour rassembler et transporter les inarchandises: et s'il en est enleve quelque chose ou s'il leur a ete fait quelqu' injure durant le terme present ci-dessus, parl'une des deux parties, leurs peuples ou sujets, il leur sera donne a cet egard pleine et entiere satisfaction.

ARTICLE XXI.

Aucun sujet du Roi tres Chretien ne prendra de commission ou de lettres de marque, pour armer quelque vaisseau ou vaisseaux a 1'effet d'agir comme corsaires contre les dits Etats Unis ou quelques uns d'entr' eux, ou contre les sujets, peuples ou habitans d'iceux, ou contre leur propriete ou celle des habitans d'aucun d'entr' eux, de quelque prince que ce soit avec lequel les dits Etats Unis seront en guerre. De meme aucun citoien, sujet, ou habitant des susdits Etats Unis et de quelqu' un d'entr' eux, ne demandera ni n'acceptera aucune commission ou lettres de marque, pour armer quelque vaisseau, ou vaisseaux pour courre sus aux sujets de sa Majeste tres Chretienne, ou quelques uns d'entre eux ou leur propriete, de quelque prince ou etat que ce soit avec qui sa d.e Majeste se trouvera en guerre; et si quelqu' un de 1'une ou de 1'autre nation prenoit de pareilles commissions ou lettres de marque, il sera puni comme pirate.

ARTICLE XXII.

Il ne sera permis a aucun corsaire etranger non apartenant a quelque sujet de sa Majeste tres Chretienne ou a un citoien des dits Etats Unis, lequel aura une commission de la part d'un prince ou d'une puissance en guerre avec 1'une des deux nations, d'armer leurs vaisseaux dans les ports de 1'une des deux parties, ni d'y vendre les prises qu'il aura faites, ni decharger en autre maniere quelconque les vaisseaux, marchandises ou aucune partie de leur cargaison; il ne sera meme pas permis d'acheter d'autres vivres que ceux qui lui seront necessaires pour se rendre dans le port le plus voisin du prince ou de 1'etat dont il tient sa commission.

ARTICLE XXIII.

Il sera permis a tous et un chacun des sujets du Roi tres Chretien et

aux cito'iens, peuple et habitans des susdits Etats Unis, de naviguer avec

leurs batimens avec toute liberte et surete, sans qu'il puisse etre fait

d'exception a cet egard, a raison des proprietaires des marchandises

chargees sur les dits batimens venant de quelque port que ce soit, et

destines pour quelque place d'une puissance actuellement ennemie, ou

qui pourra 1'etre dans la suite de sa Majeste tres Chretienne ou des Etats

Unis. Il sera permis egalement aux sujets et habitans sus mentionnes

de naviguer avec leurs vaisseaux et marchandises et de frequenter avec

la meme liberte et surete, les places, ports, et havres des puissances

ennemies des deux parties contractantes ou d'une d'entre elles, sans

opposition ni trouble, et de faire le commerce non seulement directe-

ment des ports de 1'ennemi susdit a un port neutre, mais aussi d'un port

ennemi a. un autre port ennerni, soit qu'il se trouve sous sa jurisdiction

ou sous celle de plusieurs; et il est stipule par le present traite que les

4

C

26 Free ships make free goods, excepting contraband articles.

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.
goods, and that every thing shall be deemed to be free and exempt which shall be found on board the ships belonging to the subjects of either of the confederates, although the whole lading, or any part thereof should appertain to the enemies of either, contraband goods being always excepted. It is also agreed in like manner, that the same liberty be extended to persons who are on board a free ship, with this effect, that although they be enemies to both or either party, they are not to be taken out of that free ship, unless they are soldiers and in actual service of the enemies.

What goods shall be deemed contraband.

ARTICLE XXIV.
This liberty of navigation and commerce shall extend to all kinds of merchandizes, excepting those only which are distinguished by the name of contraband, and under this name of contraband or prohibited goods, shall be comprehended arms, great guns, bombs with the fuzes, and other things belonging to them, cannon ball, gunpowder, match, pikes, swords, lances, spears, halberds, mortars, petards, granades, saltpetre, muskets, musket ball, bucklers, helmets, breast plates, coats of mail, and the like kinds of arms, proper for arming soldiers, musket rests, belts, horses with their furniture, and all other warlike instruments whatever. These merchandizes which follow shall not be reckoned among contraband or prohibited goods ; that is to say, all sorts of cloths, and all other manufactures woven of any wool, flax, silk, cotton, or any other materials whatever, all kinds of wearing apparel, together with the species whereof they are used to be made, gold and silver, as well coined as uncoined, tin, iron, latten, copper, brass, coals; as also wheat and barley, and any other kind of corn and pulse; tobacco, and likewise all manner of spices; salted and smoked flesh, salted fish, cheese and butter, beer, oils, wines, sugars, and all sorts of salts; and in general all provisions which serve for the nourishment of mankind and the sustenance of life; furthermore, all kinds of cotton, hemp, flax, tar, pitch, ropes, cables, sails, sail cloths, anchors and any parts of anchors, also ships' masts, planks, boards and beams of what trees soever; and all other things proper either for building or repairing ships, and all other goods whatever which have not been worked into the form of any instrument or thing prepared for war by land or by sea, shall not be reputed contraband, much less such as have been already wrought and made up for any other use: all which shall be wholly reckoned among free goods; as likewise all other merchandizes and things which are not comprehended and particularly mentioned in the foregoing enumeration of contraband goods; so that they may be transported and carried in the freest manner by the subjects of both confederates, even to places belonging to an enemy, such towns or places being only excepted, as are at that time besieged, blocked up or invested.

Ships and vessels to be furnished with sea letters or passports and certificates.

ARTICLE XXV. To the end that all manner of dissentions and quarrels may be avoided and prevented, on one side and the other, it is agreed, that in case either of the parties hereto should be engaged in war, the ships and vessels belonging to the subjects or people of the other ally, must be furnished with sea letters or passports, expressing the name, property and bulk of the ship, as also the name and place of habitation of the master or commander of the said ship, that it may appear thereby that the ship really and truley belongs to the subjects of one of the parties, which passport shall be made out and granted according to the form annexed to this treaty; they shall likewise be recalled every year, that is if the ship happens to return home within the space of a year. It is likewise agreed, that such ships being laden are to be provided not only with passports

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

27

batimens libres assureront egalement la liberte des marchandises, et qu'on jugera libres toutes les choses qui se trouveront abord des navires apartenants aux sujets d'une des parties contractantes, quand meme le chargement ou partie d'icelui apartiendroit aux ennemis de 1'une des deux; bien entendu neanmoins que la contrebande sera toujours exceptee. Il est egalement convenu que cette meme liberte s'etendroit aux personnes qui pourroient se trouver abord du batiment libre, quand meme elies seroient ennemies de 1'une des deux parties contractantes, et elles ne pourront etre enlevees des dits navires, a. moins qu'elles ne soient militaires et actuellement au service de 1'ennemi.
ARTICLE XXIV. Cette liberte de navigation et de commerce doit s'etendre sur toutes sortes de marchandises, a 1'exception seulement de celles qui sont designees sous le nom de contrebande: Sous ce nom de contrebande ou de marchandises prohibees, doivent etre compris les armes, canons, bombes avec leurs fusees et autres choses y relatives, boulets, poudre a tirer, meches, piques, epees, lances, dards, hallebardes, mortiers, petards, grenades, salpetre, fusils, balles, boucliers, casques, cuirasses, cote de mailles, et autres armes de cette espece, propres a armer les soldats, porte-mousqueton, baudriers, chevaux avec leurs equipages, et tous autres instrumens de guerre quelconques. Les marchandises denommees ci-apres ne seront pas comprises parmi la contrebande ou choses prohibees, savoir: toutes sortes de draps et toutes autres etoffes de laine, lin, soye, coton ou d'autres matieres quelconques; toutes sortes de vetemens avec les etoffes dont on a coutume de les faire, 1'or et Fargent monnoie ou non, Fetain, le fer, laiton, cuivre, airain, charbons, de meme que le froment et Forge, et toute autre sorte de bleds et legumes; le tabac et toutes les sortes d'epiceries, la viande salee et fumee, poisson salle, fromage et beurre, bierre, huiles, vins, sucres, et toute espece de sei, et en general toutes provisions servant pour la nourriture de Fhomme et pour le soutien de la vie. De plus, toutes sortes de coton, de chanvre, lin, goudron, poix, cordes, cables, voiles, toiles a voiles, ancres, parties d'ancres, mats, planches, madriers, et bois de toute espece, et toutes autres choses propres a la construction et reparation des vaisseaux, et autres matieres quelconques qui n'ont pas la forme d'un instrument prepare pour la guerre par terre comme par mer, ne seront pas reputees contrebande, et encore moins celles qui sont deja preparees pour quelqu' autre usage : Toutes les choses denommees ci-dessus, doivent etre comprises parmi les marchandises libres, de meme que toutes les autres marchandises et effets qui ne sont pas compris et particulierement nommes dans I'enumeration des marchandises de contrebande; de maniere qu'elles pourront etre transportees et conduites de la maniere la plus libre, par les sujets des deux parties contractantes, dans des places ennemies, a. Fexception neanmoins de celles qui se trouveroient actuellement assiegees, bloquees ou investies.
ARTICLE XXV. Afin d'ecarter et de prevenir de part et d'autre toutes discussions et querelles, il a ete convenu que dans le cas ou Fune des deux parties se trouveroit engagee dans une guerre, les vaisseaux et batimens apartenans aux sujets ou peuple de Fautre allie, devront etre pourvus de lettres de mer ou passeports, les quels exprimeront le nom, la propriete et le port du navire, ainsi que le nom et la demeure du maitre ou commandant du dit vaisseau, afin qu'il aparoisse par la que le meme vaisseau apartient reellement et veritablement aux sujets de Fune des deux parties contractantes; lequel passeport devra etre expedie selon le modele annexe au present traite. Ces passeports devront egalement etre renouvelles chaque annee, dans le cas ou le vaisseau retourne chez lui dans Fespace d'une annee. Il a ete convenu egalement que les vaisseaux

28

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

as above-mentioned, but also with certificates, containing the several particulars of the cargo, the place whence the ship sailed, and whither she is bound, that so it may be known whether any forbidden or contraband goods be on board the same; which certificates shall be made out by the officers of the place whence the ship set sail, in the accustomed form; and if any one shall think it fit or advisable to express in the said certificates, the person to whom the goods on board belong, he may freely do so.

Vessels coming on the coast or entering the ports of either party, how to be treated.

ARTICLE XXVI. The ships of the subjects and inhabitants of either of the parties, coming upon any coasts belonging to either of the said allies, but not willing to enter into port, or being entered into port and not willing to unload their cargoes or break bulk, they shall be treated according to the general rules prescribed or to be prescribed, relative to the object in question.

How vessels are to be treated when met by ships of war or privateers.

ARTICLE XXVII. If the ships of the said subjects, people or inhabitants of either of the parties shall be met with, either sailing along the coasts or on the high seas, by any ship of war of the other, or by any privateers, the said ships of war or privateers, for the avoiding of any disorder, shall remain out of cannon shot, and may send their boats aboard the merchant ship Which they shall so meet with, and may enter her to number of two or three men only, to whom the master or commander of such ship or vessel shall exhibit his passport concerning the property of the ship, made out according to the form inserted in this present treaty, and the ship when she shall have showed such passport, shall be free and at liberty to pursue her voyage, so as it shall not be lawful to molest or search her in any manner, or to give her chase or force her to quit her intended course.

No search after goods are put on board ships or vessels, unless in case of fraud.

ARTICLE XXVIII. It is also agreed, that all goods when once put on board the ships or vessels of either of the two contracting parties, shall be subject to no farther visitation; but all visitation or search shall be made beforehand, and all prohibited goods shall be stopped on the spot, before the same be put on board, unless there are manifest tokens or proofs of fraudulent practice; nor shall either the persons or goods of the subjects of his Most Christian Majesty or the United States, be put under any arrest or molested by any other kind of embargo for that cause; and only the subject of that state to whom the said goods have been or shall be prohibited, and who shall presume to sell or alienate such sort of goods, shall be duly punished for the offence.

Consuls, &c. to be allowed in the ports of each party.

ARTICLE XXIX. The two contracting parties grant mutually the liberty of having each in the ports of the other, consuls, vice-consuls, agents and commissaries, whose functions shall be regulated by a particular agreement.

Free ports.

ARTICLE XXX. And the more to favor and facilitate the commerce which the subjects of the United States may have with France, the Most Christian King will grant them in Europe one or more free ports, where they may bring and dispose of all the produce and merchandize of the thirteen United States; and his Majesty will also continue to the subjects of the said states, the free ports which have been and are open in the French islands

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

29

susmentionnes, dans le cas ou ils seroient charges, devront etre pourvus non seulement de passeports, mais aussi de certificats, contenant le detail de la cargaison, le lieu d'ou le vaisseau est parti, et la declaration des marchandises de contrebande qui pourroient se trouver abord; · lesquels certificats devront etre expedies dans la forme accoutumee par les officiers du lieu d'ou le vaisseau aura fait voile: et s'il etoit juge utile ou prudent d'exprimer dans les dits passeports, la personne a laquelle les marchandises apartiennent, on pourra le faire librement.

ARTICLE XXVI. Dans le cas ou les vaisseaux des sujets et habitans de 1'une des deux parties contractantes aprocheroient des cotes de 1'autre, sans cependant avoir le dessein d'entrer dans le port, ou apres etre entre, sans avoir le dessein de decharger la cargaison, ou rompre leur charge, on se conduira a leur egard suivant les regiemens generaux prescrits ou a preserve relativement a 1'objet dont il est question.

ARTICLE XXVII. Lorsqu'un batiment apartenant aux dits sujets, peuple et habitans de 1'une des deux parties, sera rencontre navigant le long des cotes ou en pleine mer, par un vaisseau de guerre de 1'autre, ou par un armateur, le dit vaisseau de guerre, ou armateur, afin d'eviter tout desordre, se tiendra hors de la portee du canon, et pourra envoier sa chaloupe abord du batiment marchand, et y faire entrer deux ou trois hommes, aux quels le maitre ou commandant du batiment montrera son passeport, le quel devra etre conforme a la formule annexee au present traite, et constatera la propriete du batiment: et apres que le dit batiment aura exhibe un pared passeport, il lui sera libre de continuer son vo'iage, et il ne sera pas permis de le molester, ni de chercher en aucune maniere, de lui donner la chasse, ou de le forcer de quiter la course qu'il s'etoit proposee
ARTICLE XXVIII. II est convenu que lorsque les marchandises auront ete chargees sur les vaisseaux ou batimens de 1'une des deux parties contractantes, elles ne pourront plus etre assujeties a aucune visite; toute visite et recherche devant etre faite avant le chargement, et les marchandises prohibees devant etre arretees et saisies sur la plage avant de pouvoir etre embarquees, a moins qu'on n'ait des indices manifestos ou des preuves de versements frauduleux. De meme aucun des sujets de sa Majeste tres Chretienne ou des Etats Unis, ni leurs marchandises, ne pourront etre arretes ni molestes pour cette cause, par aucune espece d'embargo; et les seuls sujets de 1'etat, auxquels les d! marchandises auront ete prohibees, et qui se seront emancipes a vendre et aliener de pareilles marchandises, seront diiement punis pour cette contravention.
ARTICLE XXIX. Les deux parties contractantes se sont accordees mutuellement la faculte de tenir dans leurs ports respectifs, des consuls, vice-consuls, agents et commissaires, dont les fonctions seront reglees par une convention particuliere.
ARTICLE XXX. Pour d'autant plus favoriser et faciliter ]e commerce que les sujets des Etats Unis feront avec la France, le Roi tres Chretien leur accordera en Europe un ou plusieurs ports Francs dans lesquels ils pourront amener et debiter toutes les denrees et marchandises provenant des treize Etats Unis; sa Majeste conservera d'un autre cote, aux sujets des dits Etats, les ports Francs qui ont ete, et sont ouverts dans les isles
c 2

30
Ratification.

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

of America: of all which free ports the said subjects of the United States shall enjoy the use, agreable to the regulations which relate to them.
ARTICLE XXXI.
The present treaty shall be ratified on both sides, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the space of six months, or sooner if possible.

In faith whereof the respective plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles, both in the French and English languages, declaring nevertheless, that the present treaty was originally composed and concluded in the French language, and they have thereto affixed their seals.

Don e at Paris, this sixth day of February, one thousand seven hundred and seventy-eight.

C. A. GERARD, B. FRANKLIN, SILAS DEANE, ARTHUR LEE,

(l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .)

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

31

Francoises de 1'Amerique. De tons les quels ports Francs les dits sujets des EtatsUnis jouiront conformement aux reglemens qui en determinent 1'usage.
ARTICLE XXXI.
Le present traite sera ratifie de part et d'autre, et les ratifications seront echangees dans I'espace de six mois ou plustot si faire se peut.

In foi de quoi les Plenipotentiaires respectifs ont signe les articles cidessus, tant en langue Francoise qu'en langue Angloise, declarant neanmoins que le present traite a ete originairement redige et arrete en langue Francoise; et ils y ont appose le cachet de leurs armes.

Fait a Paris, le sixieme jour du mois de Fevrier, mil sept cent soixante dix-huit.

C. A. GERARD, B. FRANKLIN, SILAS DEANE, ARTHUR LEE,

(l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .)

