PROVISIONAL ARTICLES
Between the United States of America, and his Britannic Majesty, (a)

Nov. 30, 1782.

ARTICLES
Agreed upon, by and between Richard Oswald, Esquire, the Commissioner of His Britannic Majesty, for treating of Peace with the Commissioners of the United States of America, in Behalf of his said Majesty, on the one Part, and John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Jay, and Henry Laurens, four of the Commissioners of the said States, for treating of Peace with the Commissioner of His said Majesty, on their Behalf, on the other Part, to be inserted in, and to constitute the Treaty of Peace, proposed to be concluded between the Crown of Great-Britain and the said United States; but which Treaty is not to be concluded untill Terms of a Peace shall be agreed upon between Great-Britain and France; and His Britannic Majesty shall be ready to conclude such Treaty accordingly.

Whe re as reciprocal advantages and mutual convenience are found by
experience to form the only permanent foundation of peace and friend-

(a) The Treaties and Conventions between the United States and Great Britain have been: Articles agreed upon, by and between Richard Oswald, Esquire, the Commissioner of His Britannic Majesty, for treating of peace with the Commissioners of the United States of America, in behalf of his said Majesty, on the one part, and John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Jay, and Henry Laurens, four of the Commissioners of the said States, for treating of peace with the Commissioner of his said Majesty, on their behalf, on the other part, to be inserted in, and to constitute the Treaty of Peace, proposed to be concluded between the Crown of Great Britain and the said United States; but which Treaty is not to be concluded until terms of peace shall be agreed upon between Great Britain and France ; and His Britannic Majesty shall be ready to conclude such Treaty accordingly. Done at Paris, November 30, 1782. Armistice, declaring a cessation of hostilities between the United States and Great Britain. Versailles, January 20, 1783 ; post, 58. Definitive Treaty of Peace between the United States of America and his Britannic Majesty. Done at Paris, September 3, 1783 ; post, 80. Treaty of Amity, Commerce and Navigation between his Britannic Majesty and the United States of America by their President, with the advice and consent of the Senate. November 19, 1794; post, 116. Additional article. Done at Philadelphia, May 4, 1796 ; post, 130. Second explanatory article. Done at London the 15th March, 1798; post, 131. Convention between the United States and Great Britain. Done at London, January 8,1802; post, 196. Treaty of Peace and Amity between his Britannic Majesty and the United States. Negotiated at Ghent, December 24, 1814. Ratified, February 17, 1815; post, 218. A convention to regulate commerce between the Territories of the United States and his Britannic Majesty. London, July 3, 1815; post, 228. Arrangement limiting the number of American and British vessels of war to be maintained on the Lakes. Washington, April, 1817; post, 231. Convention with Great Britain. October 20, 1818 ; post, 248.

Convention at St. Petersburg. Done at St. Petersburg, -- day of

1822; post, 282.

12

July,

Convention awarding the amount of indemnification under the St. Petersburg Convention. Novem-

ber 13, 1826; post, 344.

Convention regulating the reference between the United States and Great Britain on the settlement

of the boundary line described in the fifth article of the Treaty of Ghent. September 29, 1827 ; post, 362.

Convention continuing the provision of the third article of the convention of the twentieth of October,

1818. August 6, 1827 ; post, 360.

Renewal of the commercial convention of third July, 1815. August 6, 1827 ; post, 361.

Treaty between the United States of America and Great Britain. Washington, August 9, 1842;

post, 554.

(54)

ROVISIONAL ARTICLES WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1782

55

ship between states: it is agreed to form the articles of the proposed treaty, on such principles of liberal equity and reciprocity, as that partial advantages (those seeds of discord) being excluded, such a

beneficial and satisfactory intercourse between the two countries may

be established, as to promise and secure to both perpetual peace and

harmony.

ARTICLE I.

His Britannic Majesty acknowledges the said United States, viz. New-Hampshire, Massachusetts-Bay, Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations, Connecticut, New-York, New-Jersey, Pensylvania, Dela-

ware, Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina, and Georgia,

to be free, sovereign and independent States; that he treats with them as such; and for himself, his heirs and successors, relinquishes all

claims to the gouvernment, propriety and territorial rights of the same,

and every part thereof. And that all disputes which might arise in future, on the subject of the boundaries of the said United States, may be prevented, it is hereby agreed and declared, that the following are, and shall be their boundaries, viz.

United States acknowledged to be free, sovereign and independent.

ARTICLE II.
From the north-west angle of Nova-Scotia, viz. that angle which is
formed by a line, drawn due north from the source of St. Croix river to
the Highlands; along the Highlands which divide those rivers, that empty themselves into the river St. Lawrence, from those which fall into the Atlantic ocean, to the northwesternmost head of Connecticut river,
thence down along the middle of that river, to the forty-fifth degree of north latitude; from thence, by a line due west on said latitude, untill it strikes the river Iroquois or Cataraquy; thence along the middle of said river into lake Ontario, through the middle of said lake untill it strikes the communication by water between that lake and lake Erie;
thence along the middle of said communication into lake Erie, through the middle of said lake untill it arrives at the water-communication
between that lake and lake Huron; thence along the middle of said water-communication into the lake Huron; thence through the middle of said lake to the water-communication between that lake and lake Superior; thence through lake Superior northward of the isles Royal and Phelippeaux, to the Long Lake; thence through the middle of said Long Lake, and the water-communication between it and the Lake of the Woods, to the said Lake of the Woods; thence through the said
lake to the most north-western point thereof, and from thence on a due west course to the river Missisippi; thence by a line to be drawn along
the middle of the said river Missisippi untill it shall intersect the north-
ernmost part of the thirty-first degree of north latitude. South by a line to be drawn due east from the determination of the line last mentioned, in the latitude of thirty-one degrees north of the Equator, to the middle of the river Apalachicola or Catahouchi; thence along the middle thereof to its junction with the Flint river; thence strait to the head of St. Mary's river; and thence down along the middle of St. Mary's river to the Atlantic ocean. East by a line to be drawn along the middle of the river St. Croix, from its mouth in the Bay of Fundy to its source, and from its source directly north to the aforesaid Highlands which divide the rivers that fall into the Atlantic ocean, from those which fall into the river St. Laurence; comprehending all islands within twenty leagues of any part of the shores of the United States,
and lying between lines to be drawn due east from the points where the
aforesaid boundaries between Nova-Scotia on the one part, and East-
Florida on the other, shall respectively touch the Bay of Fundy and the
Atlantic ocean; excepting such islands as now are, or heretofore have been within the limits of the said province of Nova-Scotia.

Boundaries established.

56

PROVISIONAL ARTICLES WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1782.

Right of fishe ry secured. Debts to be paid.

ARTICLE III.
It is agreed that the people of the United States shall continue to enjoy unmolested the right to take fish of every kind on the Grand Bank, and on all the other banks of Newfoundland; also in the gulph of St. Lawrence, and at all other places in the sea, where the inhabitants of both countries used at any time heretofore to fish; and also that the inhabitants of the United States shall have liberty to take fish of every kind on such part of the coast of Newfoundland as British fishermen shall use (but not to dry or cure the same on that island); and also on the coasts, bays and creeks of all other of his Britannic Majesty's dominions in America; and that the American fishermen shall have liberty to dry and cure fish in any of the unsettled bays, harbours and creeks of Nova-Scotia, Magdalen islands, and Labrador, so long as the same shall remain unsettled; but so soon as the same or either of them shall be settled, it shall not be lawful for the said fishermen to dry or cure fish at such settlement, without a previous agreement for that purpose with the inhabitants, proprietors or possessors of the ground.
ARTICLE IV.
It is agreed that creditors on either side, shall meet with no lawful impediment to the recovery of the full value in sterling money, of all bona fide debts heretofore contracted.

Congress to recommend to the states restitution of confis cated estates.

ARTICLE V. It is agreed that the Congress shall earnestly recommend it to the legislatures of the respective states, to provide for the restitution of all estates, rights and properties, which have been confiscated, belonging to real British subjects, and also of the estates, rights and properties of persons resident in districts in the possession of his Majesty's arms, and who have not borne arms against the said United States. And that persons of any other description shall have free liberty to go to any part or parts of any of the thirteen United States, and therein to remain twelve months, unmolested in their endeavours to obtain the restitution of such of their estates, rights and properties, as may have been confiscated ; and that Congress shall also earnestly recommend to the several states a reconsideration and revision of all acts or laws regarding the premises, so as to render the said laws or acts perfectly consistent, not only with justice and equity, but with that spirit of conciliation, which on the return of the blessings of peace should universaly prevail. And that Congress shall also earnestly recommend to the several states, that the estates, rights and properties of such last mentioned persons, shall be restored to them, they refunding to any persons who may be now in possession, the bona fide price (where any has been given) which such persons may have paid on purchasing any of the said lands, rights and properties, since the confiscation. And it is agreed, that all persons who have any interest in confiscated lands, either by debts, marriage settlements, or otherwise, shall meet with no lawful impediment in the prosecution of their just rights.

No further confiscations or prosecutions.

ARTICLE VI. That there shall be no future confiscations made, nor any prosecutions commenced against any person or persons for, or by reason of the part which he or they may have taken in the present war; and that no person shall on that account, suffer any future loss or damage, either in his person, liberty or property, and that those who may be in confinement on such charges, at the time of the ratification of the treaty in America, shall be immediately set at liberty, and the prosecutions so commenced be discontinued.

PROVISIONAL ARTICLES WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1782.

57

ARTICLE VII. There shall be a firm and perpetual peace between his Britannic Majesty and the said States, and between the subjects of the one and the citizens of the other, wherefore all hostilities both by sea and land shall then immediately cease: all prisoners on both sides shall be set at liberty, and his Britannic Majesty shall with all convenient speed, and without causing any destruction, or carrying away any negroes or other property of the American inhabitants, withdraw all his armies, garrisons and fleets from the said United States, and from every port, place and harbour within the same; leaving in all fortifications the American artillery that may be therein ; and shall also order and cause all archives, records, deeds and papers, belonging to any of the said states, or their citizens, which in the course of the war may have fallen into the hands of his officers, to be forthwith restored and delivered to the proper states and persons to whom they belong.
ARTICLE VIII.
The navigation of the river Missisippi, from its source to the ocean, shall for ever remain free and open to the subjects of Great-Britain, and the citizens of the United States.

ARTICLE IX. In case it should so happen that any place or territory belonging to Great-Britain or to the United States, should be conquered by the arms of either from the other, before the arrival of these articles in America, it is agreed, that the same shall be restored without difficulty, and without requiring any compensation. Done at Paris, the thirtieth day of November, in the year one thou-
sand seven hundred and eighty-two.

Witness,

CALEB W.

RICHARD OSWALD, JOHN ADAMS, B. FRANKLIN, JOHN JAY, HENRY LAURENS, WHITEFOORD, Secretary

(l . s.)
(l . s .)
(l . s.)
(l . s .)
(s. s.)

to the British Commission.

T. FRANKLIN, Secretary

to the American Commission.

SEPARATE ARTICLE. It is hereby understood and agreed, that in case Great Britain, at the conclusion of the present war, shall recover, or be put in possession of West Florida, the line of north boundary between the said province
and the United States shall be a line drawn from the mouth of the river Yassous, where it unites with the Mississippi, due east, to the river Apalachicola.
Done at Paris, the thirtieth day of November, in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-two.

Attest,

CALEB

RICHARD OSWALD, JOHN ADAMS, B. FRANKLIN, JOHN JAY, HENRY LAURENS, WHITEFOORD, Secretary

(l . s .)
(l .s.)
(l .s .)
(l .s .)
(l . s .)

to the British Commission.

W. T. FRANKLIN, Secretary

to the American Commission.
A true copy, examined and compared with the original by B. FRANKLIN.
Passy, December 4, 1782.

8

Hostilities to cease, and British armies to be withdrawn.
Navigation of the Mississippi to be free to both nations. Conquests before arrival of these articles in America to be restored.

50

CONVENTION WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

in good and due form, on one side and on the other, in the space of six months, or sooner if possible, to be computed from the day of the signature.

In faith of which, We the Deputies and Plenipotentiaries of the Lords the States General of the United Netherlands, and the Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, in virtue of our respective authorities and full powers, have signed the present treaty, and apposed thereto the seals of our arms.

Done at the Hague the eight of October, one thousand seven hundred eighty-two. (l . s .) JOHN ADAMS.

Oct. 8, 1782.

CONVENTION
Between the Lords the States General of the United Netherlands, and the United States of America, concerning Vessells re-captured.
The Lords the States General of the United Netherlands, and the United States of America, being inclined to establish some uniform principles with relation to prizes made by vessells of war, and commissioned by the two contracting powers, upon their common enemies, and to vessells of the subjects of either party, captured by the enemy, and re-captured by vessells of war commissioned by either party, have agreed upon the following articles.

When vessels of either nation shall be re-captured, how they shall be restored.

ARTICLE I. The vessells of either of the two nations re-captured by the privateers of the other, shall be restored to the first proprietor, if such vessells have not been four and twenty hours in the power of the enemy, provided the owner of the vessell re-captured, pay therefor one third of the value of the vessell, as also of that of the cargo, the cannons and apparel, which third shall be valued by agreement, between the parties interested; or, if they cannot agree thereon among themselves they shall address themselves to the officers of the admiralty, of the place where the privateer who has re-taken the vessell shall have conducted her.

When they shall belong to the re-captor.

ARTICLE II. If the vessell re-captured has been more than twenty-four hours in the power of the enemy, she shall belong entirely to the privateer who has re-taken her.

CONVENTION WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

51

ratificatien van de eene en de anderezyde in goede en de behoorlyke forme werde overgeleeverd binnen den tyd van zes maanden, ofte eerder zo het zelve kan geschieden, te reekenen van den dag van de onderteekening.
Ten oirkonde deezes, hebben wy Gedeputeerden, en Plenipotentiarissen van de Heeren Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Neederlanden, en Minister Plenipotentiaris der Vereenigde Staten van America, uitkragte van onze respective authorisatie en plein pouvoir, deeze onderteekent, en met onze gewoone cachetten bekragtigt.

In den Hage den agtsten October, een duysent seeven hondert twee en tagtig.

(l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .)

GEORGE VAN RANDWYCK. B. V. D. SANTHEUVEL. P. V. BLEISWYK. W. C. H. VAN LYNDEN. D. I. VAN HEECKEREN. JOAN VAN KUFFELER. F. G. VAN DEDEM, tot den Gelder. H. TJASSENS.

CONVENTIE
Tusschen de Heeren Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden en Vereenigde Staten van America, rakend de hernomen Scheepen.
De Heeren Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, en Vereenigde Staten van America, geneegen synde, eenige gelykvormige grond beginzelen vast te stellen, omtrent het opbrengen van prysen, door de oorlogscheepen en commissie-vaarders van wedersys contracteerende parthyen, op derselver gemeene vyanden genomen, en omtrent de scheepen van elkanders onderdanen, door den vyand genomen, en by de oorlogscheepen en commissie-vaarders van weederzyden hernomen zyn met den anderen over eengekomen, omtrent de navolgende articulen.
ARTICLE I. De scheepen van eene der beide natien door kapers van den andere hernomen, zullen aan den eersten eigenaer wedergegeeven worden, indien die scheepen nog geen vier en twintig uuren in de magt van den vyand geweest zyn, mits door den eigenaer van het hernoome schip daar voor betaaid worde een derde van de waarde van het schip mitsgaders van de laading, canons, en scheepstoerustingen, welk derde in der minne begroot zal worden door de geinteresseerde parthyen; of andersints, en zoo zy desweegens niet over een konden komen, zullen zy zich adresseeren aan de bedienden der admiraliteit van de plaats alwaar de kaper die het schip hernomen heeft, het zelve zal hebben opgebracht.
ARTICLE II. Indien het hernomen schip langer dan vier en twintig uuren in's vyands magt geweest is, zal het in'tgeheel aan den kaper, die het zelve hernomen heeft, toebehooren.

52

CONVENTION WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

When re-captured by vessels of war, they shall be restored.

ARTICLE III.
In case a vessell shall have been re-captured by a vessell of war, belonging to the States-General of the United Netherlands, or to the United States of America, she shall be restored to the first owner, he paying a thirtieth part of the value of the ship, her cargo, cannons and apparel, if she has been re-captured in the interval of twenty-four hours, and the tenth part if she has been re-captured after the twenty-four hours; which sums shall be distributed in form of gratifications to the crews of the vessells which shall have re-taken her. The valuation of the said thirtieth parts and tenth parts, shall be regulated according to the tenour of the first article of the present convention.

Restitution to be made in reasonable time. Vessels of war and privateers to be admitted with their prizes into the ports of both nations.

ARTICLE IV.
The restitution of prizes, whether they may have been re-taken by vessells of war or by privateers, in the mean time and untill requisite and sufficient proofs can be given of the property of vessells re-captured, shall be admitted in a reasonable time, under sufficient sureties for the observation of the aforesaid articles.
ARTICLE V. The vessells of war and privateers, of one and of the other of the two nations, shall be reciprocally, both in Europe and in the other parts of the world, admitted in the respective ports of each, with their prizes, which may be unloaded and sold according to the formalities used in the state where the prize shall have been conducted, as far as may be consistent with the twenty-second article of the treaty of commerce: Provided always, That the legality of prizes by the vessells of the Low Countries, shall be decided conformably to the laws and regulations established in the United Netherlands; as likewise, that of prizes made by American vessells, shall be judged according to the laws and regulations determined by the United States of America.

Each nation may make regulations.

ARTICLE VI.
Moreover, it shall be free for the States-General of the United Netherlands, as well as for the United States of America, to make such regulations as they shall judge necessary, relative to the conduct which their respective vessells and privateers ought to hold in relation to the vessells which they shall have taken and conducted into the ports of the two powers.
In faith of which, We the Deputies and Plenipotentiaries of the Lords the States General of the United Netherlands, and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, have, in virtue of our respective authorities and full powers, signed these presents, and confirmed the same with the seal of our arms.
Done at the Hague, the eight of October, one thousand seven hundred eighty-two. (l . s .) JOHN ADAMS.

CONVENTION WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

53

ARTICLE III. Ingevalle een schip zal hernomen geweest zyn door een oorlog-schip of vaartuig, toebehoorende aan de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden of aan de Vereenigde Staten van America, zal het zelve aan den eersten eigenaer wedergegeeven worden, mits betalende een dertigste gedeelte van de waarde van het schip en deszelfs laading, canons, en scheepstoerustingen, by aldien het binnen de vier en twintig nuren hernomen is, en het tiende gedeelte zoo het naa de vier en twintig uuren hernomen is : welke sommen als een gratificatie verdeeld zullen worden onder de equipagien van de scheepen die het zelve hernomen zullen hebben. De begroting der bovengemelde dertigste, en tiende gedeeltens zal gereguleerd worden naar luid van het eerste articul der jegenswoordige conventie.

ARTICLE IV. De restitutie der pryzen het zy door oorlogscheepen of kapers hernomen, zal ondertusschen en tot dat behoorlyk en voldoende bewys van den eigendom der hernomen scheepen gegeeven kan werden, onder suffisante cautie wegens het nakomen der bovenstaande articulen, binnen een reedelyken tyt geadmitteert werden.

ARTICLE V. De oorlog en kaper scheepen van de eene en de andere der beide natien zullen wederzyds, zoo in Europa als in de andere weereldsdeelen in elkanders respective havens toegelaten worden met hunne pryzen, welke aldaar zullen mogen ontladen en verkocht worden, naar de formaliteiten gebruikelyk in den staat, alwaar de prys zal weezen opgebragt, soo verhet bestaanbaar is met het 22ste articul van het tractaat van commercie; met dien ver stande, dat de wettigheid der prysen door Nederlandsche scheepen gemaakt zal beslist worden, naar luid der wetten en reglementen, te deezer zake in de Vereenigde Nederlanden, vast gesteld, gelyk ook die der pryzen door Americaansche scheepen gemaakt, zal beoordeelt worden volgens de wetten en reglementem by de Vereenigde Staten van America bepaald.

ARTICLE VI.
Voor het overige zal het aan de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, als meede aan de Vereenigde Staten van America vry staan, zodanige reglementen te maken als zy zullen oordeelen te behooren; met betrekking tot het gedrag't geen hunne scheepen en kapers weedersyds verpligt zullen weezen te houden, ten opzigt der scheepen die zy genomen, en opgebragt zullen hebben in de havens der beide mogendheeden.

Ten oirkonde deezes, hebben Wy Gedeputeerden en Plenipotentiarissen van de Heeren Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, en Minister Plenipotentiaris der Vereenigde Staten van America, uyt kragt van onze respective authorisatie en plein pouvojr, deeze onderteekent en met onze gewoone cachetten be-

kragtigt. Gedaan in's Hage, den agtsten October, een duysent seeven hondert

twee en tagtig.

(l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .)

GEORGE VAN RANDWYCK. B. V. D. SANTHEUVEL. P. V. BLEISWYK. W. C. H. VAN LYNDEN. D. J. VAN HEECKEREN. JOAN VAN KUFFELER. F. G. VAN DEDEM, tot den Gelder. H. TJASSENS.
e2

TREATY

Of Amity and Commerce between their High Mightinesses the States General of the United Netherlands, and the United States of America, to wit: New-Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode-lsland and Providence Plantations, Connecticutt, NewYork, New-Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina, and Georgia, (a)

Oct. 8, 1782.

Thei r High Mightinesses the States General of the United Netherlands, and the United States of America; to wit: New-Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode-lsland and Providence Plantations, Connecticutt, New-York, New-Jersey, Pensylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina, and Georgia, desiring to ascertain in a permanent and equitable manner, the rules to be observed relative to the commerce and correspondence, which they intend to establish between their respective states, countries and inhabitants, have judged that the said end cannot be better obtained, than by establishing the most perfect equality and reciprocity for the basis of their agreement, and by avoiding all those burthensome preferences, which are usually the sources of debate, embarrassment and discontent; by leaving also each party at liberty to make, respecting commerce and navigation, such ulterior regulations as it shall find most convenient to itself; and by founding the advantages of commerce solely upon reciprocal utility, and the just rules of free intercourse, reserving withal to each party the liberty of admitting at its pleasure other nations to a participation of the same advantages.

On these principles their said High Mightinesses the States General of the United Netherlands, have named for their plenipotentiaries, from the midst of their assembly, Messieurs, their deputies for the foreign affairs; and the said United States of America, on their part, have furnished with full powers, Mr. John Adams, late commissioner of the United States of America at the court of Versailles, heretofore delegate in Congress from the state of Massachusetts-Bay, and chief justice of the said state, who have agreed and concluded as follows, to witt:

Peace and friendship between the two nations.

ARTICLE I. There shall be a firm, inviolable and universal peace and sincere friendship, between their High Mightinesses, the Lords the States General of the United Netherlands, and the United States of America, and between the subjects and inhabitants of the said parties, and between the countries, islands, cities and places, situated under the jurisdiction of the said United Netherlands, and the said United States of America, their subjects and inhabitants, of every degree, without exception of persons or places.
ARTICLE II. The subjects of the said States General of the United Netherlands,
(a) This treaty was ratified on the 22d January, 1783. (32)

TRACTAAT
Van Vriendschap en Commercie, tusschen Haar Hoog Mogende de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, en de Vereenigde Staten van America, te weeten, New-Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode-Island en Providence Plantations, Connecticutt, New-York, New-Jersey, Pensylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginien, Noord-Carolina, Zuyd- Carolina, en Georgia.
Haar Hoog Mogende de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden en de Vereenigde Staten van America; te weeten : New-Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode-Island en Providence Plantations, Connecticutt, New-York, New-Jersey, Pensylvanien, Delaware, Maryland, Virginien, Noord-Carolina, Zuyd-Carolina, en Georgien, geneegen zynde op een bestendige en billyke wyze te bepalen de regelen, die in acht genomen moeten worden, ten opzigte van de correspondentie en commercie, welke zy verlangen vast te stellen tusschen haare respective landen Staten, onderdanen en ingezeetenen, hebben geoordeelt, dat het gezegde einde niet beeter kan worden bereikt, dan door te stellen tot een bazis van haar verdrag, de volmaekste egaliteit en reciprociteit, en met vermyding van alle die lastige praeferentien, dewelke doorgaans de bronaders zyn van twist, verwarring en misnoegen; door aan iedere party de vryheid te laten, om weegins de commercie en navigatie, verder zulke reglementen te maken, als die voor zig zelven het gevoeglykst zal oordeelen; en door de voordeelen van commercie, eeniglyk te gronden op weederzyds nut, en de juiste regels van vrye handel over en weer; reserveerende by dat alles aan iedere parthy de vryheid, om, na des zelfs goedvinden andere nation te admitteeren tot het participeeren aan dezelfde voordeelen.
Op deeze grondbeginzelen hebben voorgemelde Haar Hoog Mogende de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, tot hunne Plenipotentiarissen, uit het midden hunner vergadering benoemd, de Heeren Derselver gedeputeerden tot de buitenlandsche Saaken; En de gemelde Vereenigde Staten van America van hunne zyde, met volmagt voorsien den Heer John Adams, laatst commissaris van de Vereenigde Staten van America, aan het Hof van Versailles geweezen afgevaardigde op het Congres weegens de staten van Massachusetts-Baay, en opper-regter van den gemelden staat, dewelke zyn overeengekomen, en geaccordeert:
ARTL I. Daar zal een vaste onverbreekelyke en universeele vreede, en opregte vrienschap zyn, tusschen Haar Hoog Mogende de Heeren Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, en de Vereenigde Staten van America, en de onderdanen en ingezeetenen van de voornoemde parthyen, en tusschen de landen, eilanden, steeden en plaatsen, geleegen, onder de jurisdictie van de gemelde Vereenigde Nederlanden, en de gemelde Vereenigde Staten van America, en derselver onderdanen en ingezeetenen van allerley Staat, sonder onder scheid van persoonen en plaatsen.
ARTL II. De onderdanen van de gemelde Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Ne-

5

(33)

34

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

Subjects of United Netherlands shall have the same privileges in the United States, as the most favoured nation.

shall pay in the ports, havens, roads, countries, islands, cities or places, of the United States of America, or any of them, no other nor greater duties or imposts, of whatever nature or denomination they may be, than those which the nations the most favoured, are or shall be obliged to pay; and they shall enjoy all the rights, liberties, priviledges, immunities, and exemptions in trade, navigation and commerce, which the said nations do or shall enjoy, whether in passing from one port to another, in the said states, or in going from any of those ports to any foreign port of the world, or from any foreign port of the world to any of those ports.

Citizens of U. S. shall have the same privileges in United Netherlands as the most favoured nations.

ARTICLE III. The subjects and inhabitants of the said United States of America, shall pay in the ports, havens, roads, countries, islands, cities or places of the said United Netherlands, or any of them, no other nor greater duties or imposts of whatever nature or denomination they may be, than those which the nations the most favoured, are or shall be obliged to pay: And they shall enjoy all the rights, liberties, priviledges, immunities and exemptions in trade, navigation and commerce, which the said nations do or shall enjoy, whether in passing from one port to another in the said states, or from any one towards any one of those ports, from or to any foreign port of the world. And the United States of America, with their subjects and inhabitants, shall leave to those of their High Mightinesses, the peacable enjoyment of their rights, in the countries, islands and seas, in the East and West-Indies, without any hindrance or molestation.

Liberty of conscience, &c. secured to the citizens of each party in the other's dominions.

ARTICLE IV. There shall be an entire and perfect liberty of conscience allowed to the subjects and inhabitants of each party, and to their families, and no one shall be molested in regard to his worship, provided he submits as to the public demonstration of it, to the laws of the country: There shall be given moreover, liberty, when any subjects or inhabitants of either party shall die in the territory of the other, to bury them in the usual hurrying places, or in decent and convenient grounds to be appointed for that purpose, as occasion shall require; and the dead bodies of those who are hurried, shall not in any wise be molested. And the two contracting parties shall provide, each one in his jurisdiction, that their respective subjects and inhabitants may henceforward obtain the requisite certificates in cases of deaths, in which they shall be interested.

Both parties to protect vessels of the other in their dominions, to restore them when captured, and to convoy in certain cases.

ARTICLE V. Their High Mightinesses, the States General of the United Netherlands, and the United States of America, shall endeavour, by all the means in their power, to defend and protect all vessells and other effects, belonging to their subjects and inhabitants respectively, or to any of them, in their ports, roads, havens, internal seas, passes, rivers, and as far as their jurisdiction extends at sea, and to recover, and cause to be restored to the true proprietors, their agents or attornies, all such vessells and effects, which shall be taken under their jurisdiction: And their vessells of war and convoys, in cases when they may have a common enemy, shall take under their protection all the vessells belonging

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

35

derlanden, zullen in de havens, rheeden, landen, eilanden, steeden of plaatsen van de Vereenigde Staten van America, of eenige van dezelve, geen andere of grootere regten of imposition van wat natuur, die ook mogen zyn, of hoedanig dezelve ook genoemt mogen werden, betaalen, dan die welke de meest gefavoriseerde natien, zyn of zullen worden verpligt aldaar te betaalen. En zy zullen genieten alle de regten, vryheeden, privilegien, immuniteiten en exemption in handel, navigatie en commercie, het zy in het gaan van eene haven in de gemelde Staaten na eene andere, of gaande van eenige van deeze havens na eenige vreemde haven van de wereld, of van eenige vreemde haven van de wereld, na eenige van deeze havens, welke de gemelde natien reeds genieten of zullen genieten.
ARTL III. Insgelyks zullen de onderdanen en ingezeetenen van de gemelde Vereenigde Staten van America, in de havens, rheeden, landen, eilanden, steeden of plaatsen van de gemelde Vereenigde Nederlanden of eenige van dezelve, geen andere of grootere regten of imposition, van wat natuur, die ook mogen zyn of hoedanig dezelve ook genoemt mogen worden, betaalen, dan die, welke de meest gefavoriseerde natien, zyn of zullen worden verpligt aldaar te betalen. En zy zullen genieten alle de regten, vryheeden, privilegien, immuniteiten, en exemptien in handel, navigatie en commercie, het zy in het gaan van eene haven in de gemelde Staaten na eene andere, of gaande na en van dezelve, van en na eenige vreemde haven van de wereld, welke de meest gefavoriseerde natien reeds genieten of sullen genieten. En zullen de Vereenigde Staten van America, beneevens haare onderdanen en ingezeetenen, aan die van Haar Hoog Mogende laten het gerust genot van haare regten, omtrent de landen, eilanden en zeeen, in Oost en West-Indien, sonder haar daar in eenig belet of hindernis te doen.
ARTL IV. Er zal eene voile, volkomene en geheele vryheid van conscientie worden toegestaen aan de onderdanen en ingezeetenen van iedere parthy, en aan derzelver familien, en zal niemand ter zake van den Godtsdienst worden gemolesteert, mits hem omtrent publique de monstratie onderwerpende aan de wetten van het land. Daar en boven zal vryheid worden gegeeven aan de onderdanen en ingezeetenen van iedere parthye, die in des anderen's territoir overlyden, om begraven te worden in de gewoone begraafplaatsen of gevoeglyke en decente plaatsen, daar toe te bepaalen, zoo als de geleegendheid zal vereisschen, nogte zullen de doode lighaamen van die geene, die begraven zyn eenigzints werden gemolesteert. En zullen de beide contracteerende de mogendheeden, ieder onder hun gebied, de nodige voorsieninge doen, ten einde de respective onderdanen en ingezeetenen van behoorlyke bewyzen van sterfgevallen, waar by dezelve zyn geinteresseert voortaan zullen kunnen worden gedient.
ARTL V. Haar Hoog Mogende, de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden en de Vereenigde Staten van America, zullen tragten zoo veel eenigzints in haar vermogen is, te beschermen en defendeeren alle scheepen en andere effecten toebehoorende aan wederzydsche onderdanen en ingezeetenen, of eenige van dezelve, zynde in haare havens of rheen, binnenlandsche zeeen, stroomen, rivieren, en zoo verre haare jurisdictie zeewaards strekt, en wederom te bekomen, ente doen restitueeren aan de regte eigenaers, hunne agenten of gevolmagtigden, alle zodanige scheepen, en effecten die, onder haare jurisdictie, zullen genomen worden : en haare convoyeerende oorlog scheepen zullen, voor

36

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

to the subjects and inhabitants of either party, which shall not be laden with contraband goods, according to the description which shall be made of them hereafter, for places, with which one of the parties is in peace and the other at war, nor destined for any place blocked, and which shall hold the same course or follow the same rout; and they shall defend such vessells as long as they shall hold the same course or follow the same rout, against all attacks, force and violence of the common enemy, in the same manner as they ought to protect and defend the vessells belonging to their own respective subjects.

Citizens of either party may dispose of estate by will or otherwise. Regulations concerning the same.

ARTICLE VI.
The subjects of the contracting parties may, on one side and on the other, in the respective countries and states, dispose of their effects, by testament, donation, or otherwise; and their heirs, subjects of one of the parties, and residing in the country of the other, or elsewhere, shall receive such successions, even ab intestato, whether in person or by their attorney or substitute, even although they shall not have obtained letters of naturalization, without having the effect of such commission contested, under pretext of any rights or prerogatives of any province, city, or private person; and if the heirs, to whom such successions may have fallen, shall be minors, the tutors or curators, established by the judge domiciliary of the said minors, may govern, direct, administer, sell and alienate the effects fallen to the said minors by inheritance, and in general, in relation to the said successions and effects, use all the rights, and fullfill all the functions which belong, by the disposition of the laws, to guardians, tutors and curators: Provided nevertheless, that this disposition cannot take place, but in cases where the testator shall not have named guardians, tutors, curators, by testament, codicil, or other legal instrument.

Subjects of each party may employ such advocates, &c. as they think proper.

ARTICLE VII. It shall be lawfull and free for the subjects of each party, to employ such advocates, attorneys, notaries, solicitors, or factors, as they shall judge proper.

Vessels, &c. not to be detained.

ARTICLE VIII. Merchants, masters and owners of ships, mariners, men of all kinds, ships and vessells, and all merchandizes and goods in general, and effects of one of the confederates, or of the subjects thereof, shall not be seized, or detained in any of the countries, lands, islands, cities, places, ports, shores, or dominions whatsoever of the other confederate, for any military expedition, publick or private use of any one, by arrests, violence, or any colour thereof; much less shall it be permitted to the subjects of either party, to take or extort by force, any thing from the subjects of the other party, without the consent of the owner; which, however, is not to be understood of seizures, detentions and arrests, which shall be made by the command and authority of justice, and by the ordinary methods, on account of debts or crimes, in respect whereof, the proceedings must be by way of law, according to the forms of justice.

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

37

zoo verre zy eenen gemeenen vyand mogen hebben, onder haare protectie neemen alle scheepen toebehoorende aan elkanders onderdanen en ingezeetenen, dewelke geene contrabande goederen, volgens de beschryving, bier na daar van te doen, zullen hebben ingelaaden naar plaatsen, waar meede de eene parthy in vreede, en de andere in oorlog is, en na geen geblocqueerde plaats gedestineert zyn, en zullen houden dezelve cours, of gaan dezelve weg, en zullen zodanige scheepen defendeeren, zoo lang als zy dezelve cours houden, of deselve weg gaan, teegens alle aanvallen, magt en geweld van den gemeenen vyand op dezelve wys als zy zouden moeten beschermen en defendeeren de scheepen toebehoorende aan weedersyds eigen onderdanen.

ARTL VI.
De onderdanen der contracteerende parthyen, zullen over en weeder in weedersydsche landen en staten van hunne goederen by testamenten donation, of andersints mogen disponeeren; en hunne erfgenamen, zynde onderdanen van een der parthyen in de landen vande andere, of wel elders woonagtig, zullen dezelve nalatenschapen ontfangen, selfs ab intestato, het zy in persoon, het zy by hun procureur of gemagtigde, schoon zy geen brieven van naturalisatie zouden mogen hebben geobtineert, zonder dat het effect van die commissie, hun zal kunnen worden betwist, onder praetext van eenige regten, of voorregten van eenige provincie, stad of particulier perzoon: ensoo de erfgenamen, aan welke de erffenissen mogten vervallen zyn, minder jarig waren, zullen de voogden of curateurs by den domiciliairen regter der genoemde minderjarigen aangestelt, kunnen regeeren, bestieren, administreeren, verkoopen en veralieneeren de goederen, welke de gemelde minderjarigen by erffenissen zullen zyn te beurt gevallen; en generalyk met opsigttot de voorschreeve successien en goederen, waarneemen alle regten en functien, die aan voogden en curateurs na dispositie der wetten competeeren, behoudens nogtans dat deeze dispositie geen plaats zal kunnen hebben, dan ingevalle als wanneer de testateur, by testament, codicille, of ander wettig instrument, geene-voogden of curateurs sal hebben genomineert.
ARTL VII.
Het zal wettig en vry zyn aan de onderdanen van iedere parthye, zodanige advocaten, procureurs, notarissen, solliciteurs of factoors te employeeren, als zy zullen goedvinden.

ARTL VIII.
Kooplieden, schippers, eygenaers, bootsgezellen, lieden van alderhande soort, scheepen en vaartuigen, en alle koopmanschappen en goederen in't generaal, en effecten van een derbondgenooten, of van derselver onderdanen, zullen niet mogen worden in beslag genomen of aangehouden in eenige der landen, gronden, eilanden, steeden, plaatsen, havens, stranden of dominion, hoegenaamt van den anderen bondgenoot, tot eenige militaire expeditie, publicq of privaat gebruik van iemand, door arrest, geweld of eenigsints daar na gelykender veel-minder zal het gepermitteert zyn aan de onderdanen van iedere parthy iets te neemen of door geweld te ontvreemden, van de onderdanen van de andere parthy sender bewilliging van den persoon, die het toebehoord: het geen egterniet te verstaan is van die aanhalingen, detention, en arresten, welke zullen worden gedaan op bevel en authoriteit van de justitie en volgens de ordinaire weegen, ten opzigte van schulden of misdaden, waar omtrent de procedures moeten geschieden, by wege van regten, ingevolge de form van justitie.

38

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

Privileges of citizens in trans acting business.

ARTICLE IX. It is further agreed and concluded, that it shall be wholly free for all merchants, commanders of ships, and other subjects and inhabitants of the contracting parties, in every place, subjected to the jurisdiction of the two powers respectively, to manage themselves, their own business; and moreover as to the use of interpreters or brokers, as also in relation to the loading or unloading of their vessells, and every thing which has relation thereto, they shall be, on one side and on the other, considered and treated upon the footing of natural subjects, or, at least, upon an equality with the most favored nation.

Merchant ships, if required, shall exhibit sea-letters, &c. if no contraband goods shall pass.

ARTICLE X. The merchant ships, of either of the parties, coming from the port of an enemy, or from their own, or a neutral port, may navigate freely towards any port of an enemy of the other ally: they shall be, nevertheless, held, whenever it shall be required, to exhibit, as well upon the high-seas, as in the ports, their sea-letters, and other documents, described in the twenty-fifth article, stating expressly that their effects are not of the number of those, which are prohibited, as contraband: and not having any contraband goods for an enemy's port, they may freely and without hindrance, pursue their voyage towards the port of an enemy. Nevertheless, it shall not be required to examine the papers of vessells convoyed by vessells of war, but credence shall be given to the word of the officer, who shall conduct the convoy.

Mode of proceeding when contraband goods are discovered.

ARTICLE XI. If by exhibiting the sea-letters, and other documents, described more particularly in the twenty-fifth article of this treaty, the other party shall discover there are any of those sorts of goods, which are declared prohibited, and contraband, and that they are consigned for a port under the obedience of his enemy, it shall not be lawfull to break up the hatches of such ship, nor to open any chest, coffer, packs, casks, or other vessells found therein, or to remove the smallest parcell of her goods, whether the said vessell belongs to the subjects of their High Mightinesses, the States General of the United Netherlands, or to the subjects or inhabitants of the said United States of America, unless the lading be brought on shore, in presence of the officers of the court of admiralty, and an inventary thereof made; but there shall be no allowance to sell, exchange, or alienate the same, untill after that due and lawfull process shall have been had against such prohibited goods of contraband, and the court of admiralty, by a sentence pronounced, shall have confiscated the same, saving always as well the ship itselff, as any other goods found therein, which are to be esteemed free, and may not be detained on pretence of their being infected by the prohibited goods, much less shall they be confiscated as lawfull prize: but on the contrary, when by the visitation at land, it shall be found that there are no contraband goods in the vessell, and it shall not appear by the papers that he who has taken and carried in the vessell has been able to discover any there, he ought to be condemned in all the charges, damages and interests of them, which he shall have caused, both to the owners of vessells, and to the owners and freighters of cargoes with which they shall be loaded, by his temerity in taking and carrying them in; declaring most expressly the free vessells shall assure the liberty of the effects with which they shall be loaded, and that this liberty shall extend itselff equally to the persons who shall be found in a free vessell, who may not be taken out of her, unless they are military men actually in the service of an enemy.

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

39

ARTL IX.

Verders is overeengekomen en beslooten, dat het volkomen vry zal staan aan alle kooplieden bevelhebbers van scheepen en andere onderdanen of ingezeetenen der beide contracteerende mogendheeden in alle plaatsen, respectivelyk gehoorende onder het gebied en de jurisdictie der weederzydsche mogendheeden hunne eige saaken, zelfs te verrigten; zullende deselve wyders, omtrent het gebruik van tolken of makelaars, mitsgaders met opzigt tot het laaden, of ontladen hunner scheepen, en al het geen daar toe betrekkelyk is, over en weeder op den voet van eige onderdanen, of ten minsten in-gelykheid met de meest gefavoriseerde natie geconsidereert en gehandelt vvorden.
ARTL X.

De koopvaardy scheepen van een ieder der parthyen, komende soo wel van een vyandelyke, als eige of neutrale haven, zullen vry mogen vaaren naa eenige haven van een vyand van den anderen bondgenoot; dog verpligt zyn, soo dikwils het gevordert word, haare zeebrieven en verdere bescheiden in het 25ste articul beschreeven, zoo wel op de open zee, als in de havens te exhibeeren, expresselyk aantonende, dat haare goederen niet zyn van het getal dier geene, dewelke als contrabande verbooden zyn, en geene contrabande goederen voor een vyandelyke haven gelaaden hebbende, na de haven van een vyand, haare reize vryelyk en onverhindert mogen vervolgen; dog sal geen visitatie van papieren gevergt worden van scheepen, onder convoy der oorlog scheepen, maar geloof worden gegeeven aan het woord van den officier, het

convoy leidende.

ARTL XL

Indien by het vertoonen der zee-brieven en andere bescheiden by het 25ste articul van dit tractaat nader beschreeven, de andere parthy ontdekt, dat er eenige van die soort van goederen zyn, dewelke verbooden en contrabande gedeclareert zyn, en geconsigneert naar een haven onder de gehoorsaemheid van den vyand, zal het niet geoorloft zyn de luyken van zodanig schip op te breeken, of eenige kist, koffers, pakken, kassen of ander vaat-werk, daar in gevonden wordende te openen of het geringste gedeelte van haare goederen te verplaatsen, het sy sodanige scheepen toebehooren aan de onderdanen van Haar Hoog Mogende de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, of aan onderdanen en ingezeetenen van de gemelde Vereenigde Staaten van America, ten zy de lading aan land gebragt worde in presentie van de officieren van het admiraliteits hoff, en een inventaris van deselve gemaakt, dog sal niet worden toegelaten, om deselve op eenigerhande wyse te verkoopen, verruilen of veralieneeren, dan, na dat behoorlyke en wettige procedures regens zodanige verbodene contrabande goederen zullen zyn gehouden, en het admiraliteits hof by een gepronuntieerde sententie dezelve zal hebben geconfisqueert, daar van altoos vrylatende, zoo wel het schip zelve, als eenige andere goederen, daarin gevonden wordende, welke voor vry werden gehouden, nogte mogen dezelve worden opgehouden, onder voorgeeven, dat die, als't ware door de geprohibeerde goederen, zouden zyn geinfecteert, veel min zullen deselve, als wettige prys worden geconfisqueert: Maar in tegendeel, wanneer by de visitatie aan land word bevonden, dat er geen contrabande waaren in de scheepen zyn, en uit de papieren niet bleek, dat de neemer en opbrenger, het daar uit niet had konnen ontdekken, zal deselve moeten worden gecondemneert in alle de kosten en schaden, die hy zoo aan de eigenaaren der scheepen, als aan de eigenaars en inlaaders der goederen, waar meede de scheepen belaaden zullen zyn, door zyne rukelooze aanhouding en opbrenging der scheepen zal hebben veroorsaakt met de interessen van dien; wordende wel expresselyk verklaart, dat een vry schip, zal vry maaken de waaren daar ingelaaden, en dat die vryheid zig ook

40

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

Goods found in an enemy's ship liable to be confiscated, unless put on board before declaration of war or within six months after.

ARTICLE XII. On the contrary, it is agreed, that whatever shall be found to be laden by the subjects and inhabitants of either party, on any ship belonging to the enemies of the other, or to their subjects, although it be not comprehended under the sort of prohibited goods, the whole may be confiscated in the same manner as if it belonged to the enemy; except nevertheless such effects and merchandizes as were put on board such vessell before the declaration of war, or in the space of six months after it, which effects shall not be, in any manner, subject to confiscation, but shall be faithfully and without delay restored in nature to the owners who shall claim them, or cause them to be claimed, before the confiscation and sale, as also their proceeds, if the claim could not be made but in the space of eight months after the sale, which ought to be publick: Provided nevertheless, that if the said merchandizes are contraband, it shall by no means be lawfull to transport them afterwards to any port belonging to enemies.

Vessels of war or privateers to do no injury to either party; if they do, to be punished and make reparation.

ARTICLE XIII. And that more effectual care may be taken for the security of subjects and people of either party, that they do not suffer molestation from the vessells of war or privateers of the other party, it shall be forbidden to all commanders of vessells of war and other armed vessells of the said States General of the United Netherlands, and the said United States of America, as well as to all their officers, subjects and people, to give any offence or do any damage to those of the other party; and if they act to the contrary, they shall be, upon the first complaint which shall be made of it, being found guilty after a just examination, punished by their proper judges, and moreover obliged to make satisfaction for all damages and interests thereof, by reparation, under pain and obliga tion of their persons and goods.

Captains of privateers, &c. to give sufficient caution, to be responsible for their malversations.

ARTICLE XIV. For further determining of what has been said, all captains of privateers, or fitters-out of vessells armed for war, under commission and on account of private persons, shall be held, before their departure, to give sufficient caution, before competent judges, either to be entirely responsible for the malversations which they may commit in their cruizes or voyages, as well as for the contraventions of their captains and officers against the present treaty, and against the ordinances and edicts which shall be published in consequence of and conformity to it, under pain of forfeiture and nullity of the said commissions.

Goods rescued from pirates to be restored.

ARTICLE XV. All vessells and merchandizes of whatsoever nature, which shall be rescued out of the hands of any pirates or robbers, navigating the high seas without requisite comissions, shall be brought into some port of one of the two states, and deposited in the hands of the officers of that port in order to be restored entire to the true proprietor, as soon as due and sufficient proofs shall be made concerning the property thereof.

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

41

zal uitstrekken over de persoonen, die haar zullen bevinden in een vry schip, dewelke daar uit niet geligt zullen mogen worden, ten zy het waren oorlogsluiden in effectiven dienst van den vyand.

ARTL XII. In tegendeel is overeengekomen, dat al het geen bevonden zal worden gelaaden te zyn door de onderdanen en ingezeetenen van een der beide parthyen, in eenig schip de vyanden van den anderen, of aan deszelfs onderdanen toebehoorende, geheel, of schoon niet zynde van de soort van verbodene goederen, mag worden geconfisqueert, op dezelve wys als of het den vyand toequam, uitgesondert zodanige goederen en koopmanschappen, als aan boord van zodanig schip gedaan waren voor de oorlogs-declaratie, of binnen ses maanden na deselve, welke goederen in geenendeele confiscatie zullen onderheevig zyn, maar wel en getrouwelyk sonder uitstel aan de eigenaers, die deselve voor de confiscatie en verkoop zullen te rug vragen of doen vragen, in natura zullen worden gerestitueert, gelyk meede het provenu daar van, indien de reclame binnen agt maanden na de verkoping, dewelke publicq zal moeten worden gedaen, eerst konde geschieden, dog zoo, dat, indien de gemelde koopmanschappen, contrabande zyn, het geenzints, geoorloft zal zyn deselve naderhand te vervoeren na eenige havens, de vyanden toebehoorende.
ARTL XIII.
En ten einde de best mogelyke zorg mag worden gedragen voor de securiteit van de onderdanen en het volk van een der beide parthyen, dat dezelve geen overlast komen te lyden van weegens de oorlog-scheepen of kapers van de andere parthy, zullen alle de bevelhebbers van oorlog-scheepen en gewapende vaartuigen van de voorschreeve Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, en van de gemelde Vereenigde Staten van America, mits gaders alle derselver officieren onderdanen en volk, verbooden worden eenige beleediging of schade aan die van de andere zyde toe-te-brengen, en zoo zy dien contrarie handelen, zullen zy op de eerste klagten, daar over te doen, na behoorlyk ondersoek schuldig bevonden wordende, door haar eige regters gestraft worden, endaar en boven verpligt worden satisfactie te geeven voor alle schade, en den interest daar van, door vergoeding onder poene en verbintenis van hunne personen en goederen.

ARTL XIV.
Tot meerder verklaring van het geen voorschreeve is, zullen alle kaper capiteinen of rheeders van scheepen op particuliere bestelling en commissie ten oorlog-uitgerust, voor dezelve gehouden zyn, voor derselver vertrek, goede en suffisante cautie te stellen voor de competente regters, of in het geheel te verantwoorden de malversatien, die-ze in haare courssen, of op haare reizen zouden mogen-begaan, en voor de contraventien van haare capiteinen en officieren, teegen het tegenwoordig tractaat ende ordonnantien, en edicten, die gepubliceert zullen worden, in kragte, en conform de dispositie van dien, op poene van verval, en nulliteit der voorschreve commissien.

ARTL XV.

Alle scheepen en koopmanschappen, van wat natuur dezelve ook zyn, die hernomen zullen worden uit handen van piratten en zeerovers, sonder behoorlyke commissie op de open zee varende, zullen gebragt worden in eenige haven van eene der beide staten, en zullen aan de bewaring der officieren van die haven worden overgeleevert, ten einde geheel, gerestitueert te worden aan den regten eigenaer, zoodra als behoorlyk en genoegsaam bewys, weegens den eigendom der zelve, zal gedaan zyn.

6

d2

42

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

In case of ship wreck, relief shall be afforded and goods restored.

ARTICLE XVI. If any ships or vessells, belonging to either of the parties, their subjects or people, shall, within the coasts or dominions of the other, stick upon the sands, or be wrecked or suffer any other sea-damage, all friendly assistance and relief shall be given to the persons shipwrecked, or such as shall be in danger thereof; and the vessells, effects and merchandizes, or the part of them which shall have been saved, or the proceeds of them, if, being perishable, they shall have been sold, being claimed within a year and a day by the masters or owners, or their agents or attornies, shall be restored, paying only the reasonable charges, and that which must be paid, in the same case, for the salvage, by the proper subjects of the country: there shall also be delivered them, safe conducts or passports, for their free and safe passage from thence, and to returne, each one to his own country.

When vessels by stress of weather, &c. shall be forced into ports, &c. they shall be protected and permitted to depart.

ARTICLE XVII. In case the subjects or people of either party, with their shipping, whether public and of war, or private and of merchants, be forced through stress of weather, pursuit of pirates or enemies, or any other urgent necessity for seeking of shelter and harbour, to retract and enter into any of the rivers, creeks, bays, ports, roads or shores, belonging to the other party, they shall be received with all humanity and kindness, and enjoy all friendly protection and help, and they shall be permitted to refresh and provide themselves, at reasonable rates, with victualls, and all things needfull for the sustenance of their persons, or reparation of their ships; and they shall no ways be detained or hindred from returning out of the said ports or roads, but may remove and depart when and whither they please, without any let or hindrance.

In case of war, nine months allowed to citizens residing in the other's dominion to sell and transport their effects.

ARTICLE XVIII. For the better promoting of commerce, on both sides it is agreed, that if a war should break out, between their High Mightinesses the States General of the United Netherlands, and the United States of America, there shall always be granted to the subjects on each side, the term of nine months after the date of the rupture, or the proclamation of war, to the end that they may retire, with their effects, and transport them where they please, which it shall be lawfull for them to do, as well as to sell or transport their effects and goods, in all freedom and without any hindrance, and without being able to proceed, during the said term of nine months, to any arrest of their effects, much less of their persons ; on the contrary, there shall be given them, for their vessells and their effects, which they would carry away, passports and safe conducts for the nearest ports of their respective countries, and for the time necessary for the voyage. And no prize made at sea, shall be adjudged lawfull, at least, if the declaration of war was not or could not be known, in the last port, which the vessell taken, has quitted, but for whatever may have been taken from the subjects and inhabitants of either party, and for the offences which may have been given them, in the interval of the said terms, a compleat satisfaction shall be given them.

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

43

ARTL XVI. Indien eenige scheepen of vaartuigen toebehooreende aan een van beyde de parthyen, hunne onderdanen of ingezeetenen, op de kusten of dominien van den anderen zullen komen te stranden, vergaan, of eenige andere zee-schade te lyden, zal alle vriendelyke assistentie en hulp worden gegeeven aan de persoonen schipbreuk geleeden hebbende, of die zig in gevaar daar van zullen bevinden; en de scheepen, goederen en koopmanschappen, en het geen daarvan ge-borgen zal zyn, of het provenu van dien, by aldien die goederen verderffelyk zynde, zullen weezen verkogt, alle door de schippers of door de eigenaars, of van haare gelaste, of volmagt hebbende, binnen jaar en dag gereclameert wordende, worden gerestitueert; mits betaelende alleen de reedelyke onkosten, en het geen voor bergloon door de eige onderdanen, in het zelve geval, betaalt moet worden; zullende insgelyks brieven van vrygeley aan hun worden gegeeven, voor hunne vrye en geruste passage van daar, en retour van een ieder na syn eigen land.
ARTL XVII. Ingevalle de onderdanen of ingezeetenen van een der beide parthyen, met hunne scheepen, het zy publique en ten oorlog varende, of bysondere en ter koopvaardy uitgerust, door onstuimig weer, najaaging van zeerovers of vyanden, of eenige andere dringende nood, gedwongen zullen worden, terbekoming van een schuilplaats en haaven, zig te retireeren en binnen te loopen in eenige der rivieren, creeken, baayen, havens, rheeden of stranden, toebehoorende aan de andere parthye, zullen dezelve met alle menschlievendheid en goedwilligheid werden ontfangen, en alle vriendelyke protectie en hulp genieten en zal hun worden toegestaan zig te ververschen, en proviandeeren, teegens reedelyke prysen met victuaille, en alle dingen benoodigt tot onderhoud van haare persoonen of reparatie van hunne scheepen, en zy zullen op geenerley wys worden opgehouden, of verhindert uit de gemelde havens of rheeden te vertrekken, maar mogen verzylen en gaan wanneer en waar het hun behaagt, zonder eenig belet of verhindering.
ARTL XVIII. Tot des te beeter voortzetting der weedersydsche commercie, is over eengekomen, dat indien een oorlog mogt komen te ontstaan, tusschen haar Hoog Mogende de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, en de Vereenigde Staten van America, altyd aan de onderdanen van de een of andere zyde zal worden gegeeven den tyd van neegen maanden, na dato van de rupture of proclamatie van oorlog, om haar te mogen retireeren met haare effecten, endezelve te vervoeren, waar het haar believen zal, het welk haar geoorloft zal zyn te mogen doen; als meede te mogen verkoopen of transporteeren haare goederen en meubilien in alle vryheid; sender dat men haar daarin eenig belet zal-doen ; ook zonder geduurende den tyd van de voorschreeve neegen maanden te mogen procedeeren tot eenig arrest van haare effecten, veel min van haare persoonen, maar zullen inteegendeel voor haare scheepen, en effecten, die zy zullen willen meedevoeren worden gegeeven pasporten van vry geleide tot de naeste havenen in elkanders Landen voor den tyd, tot de reizen nodig. Ook zullen geen pryzen op zee genomen voor wettig genomen gehouden mogen worden, ten minsten indien de oorlogs-declaratie, niet bekent was geweest of had kunnen zyn in de haven, die het geenoome schip het laast heeft verlaten, maar zal voor al, het geen aan de onderdanen en ingezetenenen van weederzyden binnen de voorschreeve termynen, ontnomen mogt zyn en de beleedigingen, die hun aangedaan zouden mogen zyn, volkomen satisfacte gegeeven worden.

44

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

Citizens of neither party shall take commissions or letters of marque from a prince or state with whom the other is at war.

ARTICLE XIX. No subject of their High Mightinesses the States General of the United Netherlands, shall apply for or take any commission or letters of marque, for arming any ship or ships to act as privateers against the said United States of America, or any of them, or the subjects and inhabitants of the said United States or any of them, or against the property of the inhabitants of any of them, from any prince or state with which the said United States of America may happen to be at war; nor shall any subject or inhabitant of the said United States of America, or any of them, apply for or take any commission or letters of marque for arming any ship or ships to act as privateers against the High and Mighty Lords the States General of the United Netherlands, or against the subjects of their High Mightinesses, or any of them, or against the property of any one of them, from any prince or state with which their High Mightinesses may be at war: And if any person of either nation shall take such commission or letters of marque, he shall be punished as a pirate.

Vessels coming on the coast or entering the ports of either party, how to be treated.

ARTICLE XX. If the vessells of the subjects or inhabitants of one of the parties come upon any coast belonging to either of the said allies, but not willing to enter into port, or being entered into port and not willing to unload their cargoes or break bulk, or take in any cargoe, they shall not be obliged to pay, neither for the vessells nor the cargoes, any duties of entry in or out, or to render any account of their cargoes, at least if there is not just cause to presume that they carry to air enemy merchandizes of contraband.

Consuls, &c. to be allowed in the ports of each nation.

ARTICLE XXI. The two contracting parties grant to each other mutually, the liberty of having each in the ports of the other, consuls, vice-consuls, agents and commissaries of their own appointing, whose functions shall be regulated by particular agreement, whenever either party chuses, to make such appointments.

This treaty not to derogate from treaty with France. United Netherlands to aid the U. S. in forming treaties with the Barbary powers.

ARTICLE XXII. This treaty shall not be understood in any manner to derogate from the ninth, tenth, nineteenth and twenty-fourth articles of the treaty with France, as they were numbered in the same treaty, concluded the sixth of February, 1778, and which make the articles ninth, tenth, seventeenth and twenty-second of the treaty of commerce now subsisting between the United States of America, and the crown of France: nor shall it hinder his Catholic Majesty from acceding to that treaty, and enjoying the advantages of the said four articles.
ARTICLE XXIII. If at any time the United States of America shall judge necessary to commence negotiations with the King or Emperor of Marocco and Fez, and with the Regencies of Algiers, Tunis or Tripoli, or with any of them, to obtain passports for the security of their navigation in the Mediterranean Sea, their High Mightenesses promise that upon the requisition which the United States of America shall make of it, they will second such negotiations in the most favourable manner, by means of their consuls, residing near the said King, Emperor and Regencies.

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

45

ARTL XIX. Geen onderdaan van haar Hoog Mogende de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, zullen mogen versoeken of aanneemen eenige commission, of lettres de marque tot het wapenen van eenig schip, of scheepen, ten einde als kapers te ageeren teegens de gemelde Vereenigde Staten van America of eenige der zelve, of tegens de onderdanen of ingezeetenen der gemelde Vereenigde Staten, of eenige der zelve, of teegens den eigendom der ingezeetenen van eenige der zelve, van eenige prins of staat, met wien de voorschreeve Vereenigde Staten van America in oorlog mogten zyn; nochte zal eenige onderdaen of ingezeeten van demelde Vereenigde staten van America, of eenige derselve, eenige commissie off lettres de marque versoeken of aanneemen, tot het wapenen van eenig schip of scheepen, om ter kaap te vaaren tegens de Hoog Mogende Heeren Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, of teegens de onderdanen of ingezeetenen van gemelde Haar Hoog Mogende, of eenige van deselve, of den eigendom van eenige derzelve, van eenige Prins of Staat, met wien haar Hoog Mogende in oorlog zullen zyn; en indien eenig persoon van een van beide natien zodanige commissie of lettres de marque zal aanneemen zal deselve als een zeerover worden gestraft.
ARTL XX. De scheepen der onderdanen of ingezeetenen van een van beide de parthyen, komende aan eenige kust, toebehoorende aan de een of andere der gemelde bondgenooten, doch niet voorneemens zynde in een haven binnen te loopen, of binnen geloopen zynde, en niet begeerende hunne ladingen te lossen, of last te breeken, of by te laden, zullen niet gehouden zyn voor haare scheepen of laadingen eenige inkomende, of uitgaende regten te betalen nog eenige reekenschap van haare ladingen te geeven, ten minsten indien er geen wettig vermoeden is, dat zy aan een vyand toevoeren koopmanschappen van contrabande.
ARTL XXI. De twee contracteerende parthyen vergunnen over en weeder aan elkanderen de vryheid, om ieder in de havens van den anderen, consuls, vice-consuls, agenten en commissarissen van hunne eigen aanstelling te hebben, welkers functien gereguleert zullen worden by particuliere overeenkomst, wanneer ooit eene der beide parthyen goedvind zodanige aanstelling te doen.
ARTL XXII. Dit tractaat zal in geenerhande opsigten verstaan worden te derogeeren aan de 9, 10, 19 en 24 articulen, van het tractaat met Vrankryk, soo als die genummert zyn geweest in het zelve tractaat den 6 February, 1778, geslooten, zynde de 9, 10, 17 en 22 articulen van het tractaat van commercie, soo als het nu in kragt is, tusschen de Vereenigde Staten van America en de kroon van Vrankryk: en zal meede niet beletten, dat syne Catholicque Majesteit aan t'selve zoude accedeeren, en van het beneficie der gemelde vier articulen joisseeren.
ARTL XXIII. By aldien de Vereenigde Staten van America, t'eeniger tyd nodig mogten vinden, om by den koning of keizer van Marocco of Fez, mitsgaders by de regeeringen van Algiers, Tunis of Tripoli, of by eenige van dezelve, negotiation te entameeren tot het verkrygen van pasporten, ter beveiliging van hunne navigatie op de Middelandsche zee, zoo beloven haar Hoog Mogende op het aanzoek van Hoogstgedagte Vereenigde Staten, die negotiatien door middel van hunne by den voorschreeve koning of keizer en regeeringen, resideerende consuls op de favorabelste wyze te zullen secondeeren.

46

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

What goods shall be deemed contraband.

CONTRABAND.
ARTICLE XXIV. The liberty of navigation and commerce shall extend to all sorts of merchandizes, excepting only those which are distinguished under the name of contraband, or merchandizes prohibited: and under this denomination of contraband and merchandizes prohibited, shall be comprehended only warlike stores and arms, as mortars, artillery, with their artifices and appurtenances, fusils, pistols, bombs, grenades, gun-powder, saltpetre, sulphur, match, bullets and balls, pikes, sabres, lances, halberts, casques, cuirasses, and other sorts of arms; as also soldiers, horses, saddles, and furniture for horses; all other effects and merchandizes, not before specified expressly, and even all sorts of naval matters, however proper they may be for the construction and equipment of vessels of war, or for the manufacture of one or another sort of machines of war by land or sea, shall not be judged contraband, neither by the letter, nor according to any pretended interpretation whatever, ought they, or can they be comprehended under the notion of effects prohibited or contraband. So that all effects and merchandizes, which are not expressly before named, may, without any exception, and in perfect liberty, be transported by the subjects and inhabitants of both allies, from and to places belonging to the enemy; excepting only the places which at the same time shall be besieged, blocked or invested ; and those places only shall be held for such, which are surrounded nearly by some of the belligerent powers.

Regulations respecting pass ports.

ARTICLE XXV.
To the end that all dissention and quarrel may be avoided and prevented, it has been agreed, that in case that one of the two parties happens to be at war, the vessells belonging to the subjects or inhabitants of the other ally, shall be provided with sea-letters or passports, expressing the name, the property and the burthen of the vessell, as also the name and the place of abode of the master, or commander of the said vessell, to the end, that thereby it may appear, that the vessell really and truly belongs to subjects or inhabitants of one of the parties; which passports shall be drawn and distributed, according to the form annexed to this treaty; each time that the vessell shall return, she should have such her passport renewed, or at least, they ought not to be of more antient date than two years, before the vessell has been returned to her own country.

It has been also agreed, that such vessells, being loaded, ought to be provided not only with the said passports or sea-letters, but also with a general pasport, or with particular passports or manifests, or other publick documents, which are ordinarily given to vessells outward bound in the ports from whence the vessells have set sail in the last place, containing a specification of the cargo, of the place from whence the vessell departed, and of that of her destination; or, instead of all these, with certificates from the magistrates or governors of cities, places and colonies, from whence the vessell came, given in the usual form, to the end that it may be known, whether there are any effects prohibited or contraband, on board the vessells, and whether they are destined to be carried to an enemy's country or not; and in case any one judges proper to express in the said documents, the persons to whom the effects on board belong, he may do it freely, without, however, being bound to do

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

47

CONTRABANDS.
ARTL XXIV. De vryheid van navigatie en commercie zal zig uitstrekken tot alle soorten van koopmanschappen, uitgesondert alleen deeze, welke onderscheiden zyn onder den naam van contrabande of verbodene goederen: en onder deeze benoeming van contrabande of verbodene goederen, zullen alleen begreepen zyn de oorlogs ammunitien, of wapenen, als mortieren, geschut met zyne vuurwerken, en het geen daar toebehoort; geweeren, pistoolen, bomben, granaden, buspulver, salpeeter, zwavel, lonten, koogels, pieken, zwaarden, lancien, helbaarden, casquetten, cuirassen, en diergelyk soort van wapentuig, ook soldaten, paarden, zadels, en toerusting van paarden. Alle andere goederen en koopmanschappen, hier boven niet uitdrukkelyk gespecificeert, jaa selfs alle soorten van scheepsmaterialen, hoe zeer dezelve ook zouden mogen zyn geschikt, tot het bouwen of equipeeren van oorlogscheepen, of tot het maken van het een of ander oorlogstuig, te water of te lande, zullen mits dien nog volgens den letter, nog volgens eenige voor te wende interpretatie van dezelve, hoe ook genaamt onder verboodene of contrabande goederen, begreepen kunnen of mogen worden: zoo dat alle dezelve goederen, waaren en koopmanschappen, hier boven niet uitdrukkelyk genoemt, sonder eenig onderscheid zullen mogen worden getransporteert en vervoert in alle vryheid, door de onderdanen en ingezeetenen van beide bondgenooten, van en na plaatsen, aan den vyand toebehoorende, zodanige steeden of plaatsen alleen uitgesondert, welke op die tyt beleegert, geblocqueert of geinvesteert zyn, waar voor alleenlyk worden gehouden de zulke, die door een der oorlogvoerende mogendheeden van na by ingeslooten worden gehouden.
ARTL XXV. Ten einde alle dissentie en twist mag werden vermyd en voorgekomen, is over een gekomen, dat ingeval een van beide de parthyen in oorlog mogt komen te geraken, de scheepen en vaartuigen, toebehoorende aan de onderdanen of ingezeetenen van de andere geallieerde, met zee-brieven of pasporten, moeten werden voorsien, expresseerende den naam, eigendom en de groote van het schip of vaartuig, als meede den naam, plaats, of woninge van den schipper of bevelhebber van het gemelde schip of vaartuig, ten einde daar by mag blyken, dat het schip reeel en in waarheid aan de onderdanen of ingezeetenen van eene der parthyen toebehoord, welk pasport zal worden opgemaakt en uitgegeeven, volgens het formulier, agter dit tractaat gevoegt. Deselve zullen ieder reize, dat het schip thuys is geweest op nieuw verleent moeten zyn, of ten minsten niet ouder mogen zyn, als twee jaar, voorde tyd, dat het schip laast is thuys geweest. Het is insgelyks vastgestelt, dat zodanige scheepen of vaartuigen gelaaden zynde, moeten weezen voorsien, niet alleen met pasporten of zeebrieven bovengemeld; maar ook met een generaal pasport of particuliere pasporten, of manifesten, of andere publicque documenten, die in de havenen, van waar de scheepen laast gekomen zyn, gewoonlyk gegeeven worden aan de uitgaende scheepen, inhoudende een specificatie van de lading de plaats van waar het schip gezeild is, en waar heenen het gedestineert is, of by gebreeke van alle deselve met certificaten van de magistraten of gouverneurs der steeden, plaatsen en colonien, van waar het schip vertrokken is, in de gewoonde form gegeeven, op dat geweeten kan worden, of eenige verboode of contrabande goederen, aan boord van de scheepen zyn, en of zy daar meede na's vyands landen gedestineert zyn, of niet. En by aldien iemand goetdunkt of raadzaem vind, om in de gemelde beschciden uit te drukken de persoonen, aan wien de aan boord zinde goederen toekomen, vermag hy

48

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

it; and the omission of such expression cannot and ought not to cause a confiscation.

How ships and vessels are to be treated, when met by ships of war or privateers.

ARTICLE XXVI.
If the vessells of the said subjects or inhabitants of either of the parties, sailing along the coasts or on the high seas, are met by a vessell of war, or privateer, or other armed vessell of the other party, the said vessells of war, privateers, or armed vessells, for avoiding all disorder, shall remain without the reach of cannon, but may send their boats on board the merchant vessel, which they shall meet in this manner, upon which they may not pass more than two or three men, to whom the master or commander shall exhibit his passport, containing the property of the vessell, according to the form annexed to this treaty: And the vessell, after having exhibited such a passport, sea-letter and other documents, shall be free to continue her voyage, so that it shall not be lawfull to molest her, or search her in any manner, nor to give her chase nor to force her to alter her course.

Lawful for merchants and commanders of vessels to take into their service seamen and others belonging to either nation.

ARTICLE XXVII.
It shall be lawfull for merchants, captains and commanders of vessells, whether public and of war, or private and of merchants, belonging to the said United States of America, or any of them, or to their subjects and inhabitants, to take freely into their service, and receive on board of their vessells, in any port or place in the jurisdiction of their High Mightinesses aforesaid, seamen or others, natives or inhabitants of any of the said states, upon such conditions as they shall agree on, without being subject for this, to any fine, penalty, punishment, process or reprehension whatsoever.

And reciprocally, all merchants, captains and commanders, belonging to the said United Netherlands, shall enjoy, in all the ports and places under the obedience of the said United States of America, the same priviledge of engaging and receiving seamen or others, natives or inhabitants of any country of the domination of the said States General: Provided, that neither on one side nor the other, they may not take into their service such of their countrymen who have already engaged in the service of the other party contracting, whether in war or trade, and whether they meet them by land or sea; at least if the captains or masters under the command of whom such persons may be found, will not of his own consent discharge them from their service; upon pain of being otherwise treated and punished as deserters.

Ratification.

ARTICLE XXVIII. The affair of the refraction shall be regulated in all equity and justice, by the magistrates of cities respectively, where it shall be judged that there is any room to complain in this respect.
ARTICLE XXIX. The present treaty shall be ratified and approved by their High Mightinesses the States General of the United Netherlands, and by the United States of America; and the acts of ratification shall be delivered,

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

49

zulks vryelyk te doen, sonder egter daar toe gehouden te syn, of dat gebrek van die uitdrukking geleegenheid tot confiscatie kan of mag geeven.
ARTL XXVI. Indien de scheepen of vaartuigen van de gemelde onderdanen of ingezeetenen van een van beide de parthyen, zeilende langs de kusten off in de open zee, ontmoet zullen worden door eenig schip van oorlog, kaper, of gewapend vaartuig van de andere parthy, zullen de gemelde oorlog-scheepen, kapers of gewapende vaartuigen tot vermyding van alle disordre, buiten bereik van het geschut blyven, dog hunne booten mogen zenden aan boord van het koopvaardy schip, welke zy op die wys. zullen ontmoeten, en op het zelve mogen overgaan ten getalle alleen van twee a drie man, aan wien de schipper of bevelhebber van zodanig schip of vaartuig zyn pasport zal vertoonen, inhoudende den eigendom van het schip of vaartuig ingevolge het formulier, agter dit tractaat gevoegt, en zal het schip of vaartuig na de vertooning van dusdanig pasport, zee-brief en verdere bescheiden vry en liber zyn, om deszelfs reis te vervolgen, zoo dat niet geoorloft zal zyn het zelve op eenigerhande wyze te molesteeren of doorzoeken, nog jagt op haar te maken, of het selve te forceeren, haare voorgenomen cours te verlaten.

ARTL XXVII. Het zal geoorloft zyn aan kooplieden, capiteins, en bevelhebbers van scheepen, het zy publicque en ten oorlog, of particuliere en ter koopvardy vaarende, toebehoorende aan de gemelde Vereenigde Staten van America, of eenige van dezelve, of aan de onderdanen en ingezeetenen van eenige derzelve, vryelyk in hunne dienst aan te neemen, en aan boord van haare gemelde scheepen te ontfangen, in iedere der havens of plaatsen onder de jurisdictie van voornoemde Haar Hoog Mogende, eenige bootsgezellen of anderen, zynde inboorlingen of ingezeetenen van eenige der gemelde Staten, op zulke voorwaarden, als zal werden overeen gekomen, zonder daar voor aan eenige boete, poene, straffe, proces of berisping hoegenaamt onderheevig te zyn. En zullen reciproquelyk alle kooplieden, capiteinen en bevelhebbers van scheepen, behoorrende tot de voorschreeven Vereenigde Nederlanden, in alle de havens en plaatsen, onder het gebied van de gemelde Vereenigde Staten van America, het zelve voorregt genieten tot aanneeming en ontfangen van bootsgezellen of anderen, zynde inboorlingen of ingezeetenen van eenige der domeinen van de gemelde Staten Generaal, met dien verstande, dat men nog aan de eene nog aan de andere zyde zig zal mogen bedienen van zodanige zyner landsgenooten, die zig reeds in dienst van de andere contracteerende parthye, het zy ten oorlog het zy op koopvaardy scheepen, heeft geengageert, het zy men deselve aan de vaste wal, dan wel in zee zoude mogen ontmoeten, ten minsten indien de capiteinen of schippers, onder wiens bevel zodanige persoonen zig mogten bevinden, deselve niet vrywillig uit hunnen dienst wilde ontslaan, oppoene dat dezelve andersints op den voet van weglopers zullen worden behandelt, en gestraft.

ARTL XXVIII. De toeleg voor refractie zal in alle reedelykheid en billykheid worden gereguleert by de magistraten der respective steeden, alwaar men oordeelt, dat eenige bezwaaren desweegens plaets hebben.

ARTL XXIX.

Het tegenwoordig tractaat zal werden geratificeert en geapprobeert

by Hoogstgemelde Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, en

Iloog gemelde Vereenigde Staten van America, en zullen de acten van

7

E

50

CONVENTION WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

in good and due form, on one side and on the other, in the space of six months, or sooner if possible, to be computed from the day of the signature.

In faith of which, We the Deputies and Plenipotentiaries of the Lords the States General of the United Netherlands, and the Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, in virtue of our respective authorities and full powers, have signed the present treaty, and apposed thereto the seals of our arms.

Done at the Hague the eight of October, one thousand seven hundred eighty-two. (l . s .) JOHN ADAMS.

Oct. 8, 1782.

CONVENTION
Between the Lords the States General of the United Netherlands, and the United States of America, concerning Vessells re-captured.
The Lords the States General of the United Netherlands, and the United States of America, being inclined to establish some uniform principles with relation to prizes made by vessells of war, and commissioned by the two contracting powers, upon their common enemies, and to vessells of the subjects of either party, captured by the enemy, and re-captured by vessells of war commissioned by either party, have agreed upon the following articles.

When vessels of either nation shall be re-captured, how they shall be restored.

ARTICLE I. The vessells of either of the two nations re-captured by the privateers of the other, shall be restored to the first proprietor, if such vessells have not been four and twenty hours in the power of the enemy, provided the owner of the vessell re-captured, pay therefor one third of the value of the vessell, as also of that of the cargo, the cannons and apparel, which third shall be valued by agreement, between the parties interested; or, if they cannot agree thereon among themselves they shall address themselves to the officers of the admiralty, of the place where the privateer who has re-taken the vessell shall have conducted her.

When they shall belong to the re-captor.

ARTICLE II. If the vessell re-captured has been more than twenty-four hours in the power of the enemy, she shall belong entirely to the privateer who has re-taken her.

CONVENTION WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

51

ratificatien van de eene en de anderezyde in goede en de behoorlyke forme werde overgeleeverd binnen den tyd van zes maanden, ofte eerder zo het zelve kan geschieden, te reekenen van den dag van de onderteekening.
Ten oirkonde deezes, hebben wy Gedeputeerden, en Plenipotentiarissen van de Heeren Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Neederlanden, en Minister Plenipotentiaris der Vereenigde Staten van America, uitkragte van onze respective authorisatie en plein pouvoir, deeze onderteekent, en met onze gewoone cachetten bekragtigt.

In den Hage den agtsten October, een duysent seeven hondert twee en tagtig.

(l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .) (l . s .)

GEORGE VAN RANDWYCK. B. V. D. SANTHEUVEL. P. V. BLEISWYK. W. C. H. VAN LYNDEN. D. I. VAN HEECKEREN. JOAN VAN KUFFELER. F. G. VAN DEDEM, tot den Gelder. H. TJASSENS.

CONVENTIE
Tusschen de Heeren Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden en Vereenigde Staten van America, rakend de hernomen Scheepen.
De Heeren Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, en Vereenigde Staten van America, geneegen synde, eenige gelykvormige grond beginzelen vast te stellen, omtrent het opbrengen van prysen, door de oorlogscheepen en commissie-vaarders van wedersys contracteerende parthyen, op derselver gemeene vyanden genomen, en omtrent de scheepen van elkanders onderdanen, door den vyand genomen, en by de oorlogscheepen en commissie-vaarders van weederzyden hernomen zyn met den anderen over eengekomen, omtrent de navolgende articulen.
ARTICLE I. De scheepen van eene der beide natien door kapers van den andere hernomen, zullen aan den eersten eigenaer wedergegeeven worden, indien die scheepen nog geen vier en twintig uuren in de magt van den vyand geweest zyn, mits door den eigenaer van het hernoome schip daar voor betaaid worde een derde van de waarde van het schip mitsgaders van de laading, canons, en scheepstoerustingen, welk derde in der minne begroot zal worden door de geinteresseerde parthyen; of andersints, en zoo zy desweegens niet over een konden komen, zullen zy zich adresseeren aan de bedienden der admiraliteit van de plaats alwaar de kaper die het schip hernomen heeft, het zelve zal hebben opgebracht.
ARTICLE II. Indien het hernomen schip langer dan vier en twintig uuren in's vyands magt geweest is, zal het in'tgeheel aan den kaper, die het zelve hernomen heeft, toebehooren.

APPENDIX.

CONTRACT

July 16, 1782. Between his most Christian majesty and the United States

Ratified, Jan. of America, entered into by the count de Vergennes and

22, 1783.

Mr. Franklin, the 16th of July, 1782, and ratified by

congress, the 22d day of January, 1783.

Motives for making a parti-
cular statement of the amount of pecuniary
supplies furnished by France, &c.

The king having been pleased to attend to the requests made to him in the name, and on behalf of the united provinces of North America, for assistance in the war and invasion under which they had for several years groaned; and his majesty, after entering into a treaty of amity and commerce with the said confederated provinces, on the 6th of February, 1778, having had the goodness to support them, not only with his forces by land and sea, but also with advances of money, as abundant as they were effectual, in the critical situation to which their affairs were reduced : it has been judged proper and necessary to state exactly the amount of those advances, the conditions on which the king made them, the periods at which the congress of the United States have engaged to repay them to his majesty's royal treasury, and in fine, to state this matter in such a way as for the future to prevent all difficulties capable of interrupting the good harmony which his majesty is resolved to maintain and preserve between him and the said United States. For executing so laudable a purpose, and with a view to strengthen the bands of amity and commerce which subsist between his majesty and the said United States; we, Charles Gravier de Vergennes, &c. counsellor of the king in all his councils, commander of his orders, minister and secretary of state, and of his commands and finances, vested with full powers of his majesty to us given for this purpose: and we, Benjamin Franklin, minister plenipotentiary of the United States of North America, in like manner vested with full powers of the congress of the said states for the present purpose; after duly communicating our respective powers, have agreed to the following articles:

Amount of different loans.

Art . 1. It is agreed and certified, that the sums advanced by his majesty to the congress of the United States, under the title of a loan, in the years 1778, 1779, 1780, 1781, and the present, 1782, amount to the sum of eighteen million of livres, money of France, according to the following twenty-one receipts of the abovementioned under written minister of congress, given in virtue of his full powers, to wit:

Items of loans.

1, 28 February, 1778, .............................

2, 19 May,

ditto, .............................

3, 3 August, ditto, ...............................

4, 1 November, ditto, ...............................

5, 10 June,

1779, .............................

6, 16 September, ditto, .............................

7, 4 October, ditto, ...............................

8, 21 December, ditto, .............................

(614)

750,000 750,000 750,000 750,000
-------- 3,000,000 250,000 250,000 250,000 250,000 -------- 1,000,000

APPENDIX.

615

9, 29 February, 1780, ...7..5..0..,.0..0..0............

10, 23 May,

ditto, .......................... 750,000

11, 21 June,

ditto, .......................... 750,000

12, 5 October, ditto, ............................ 750,000

13, 27 November, ditto, .......................... 1,000,000

----------- 4,000,000

14, 15 February, 1781, .......................... 750,000

15, 15 May,

ditto, .......................... 750,000

16, 15 August, ditto, .......................... 750,000

17, 1 August, ditto, ............................ 1,000,000

18, 15 November, ditto, .......................... 750,000

----------- 4,000,000

19, 10 April,

1782, .......................... 1,500,000

20, 1 July,

ditto, ............................ 1,500,000

21, 5 of the same month,.......................... 3,000,000

----------- 6,000,000

Amounting in the whole to 18 millions, viz.

18,000,000

By which receipts the said minister has promised in the name of con- Interest at five gress, and in behalf of the thirteen United States, to cause to be paid per cent. and reimbursed to the royal treasury of his majesty, on the 1st of January, 1788, at the house of his grand banker at Paris, the said sum of eighteen millions money of France, with interest at five per cent,
per annum.

Art . 2. Considering that the payment of so large a capital at the one Repayment of stipulated period, the 1st of January, 1788, may greatly injure the finan- the loans. ces of the congress of the United States, and it may perhaps be even impracticable on that footing, his majesty has been pleased for that
reason to recede in that respect from the tenor of the receipts which the minister of congress has given for the eighteen million livres tournois, mentioned in the foregoing article, and has consented that the payment of the capital in ready money, at the royal treasury, be in twelve equal payments of 1,500,000 livres each, and in twelve years only, to com-
mence from the third year after a peace.

Art . 3. Although the receipts of the minister of the congress of the Abatement of United States specify, that the eighteen million of livres abovementioned, interest.
are to be paid at the royal treasury, with interest at five per cent, per annum, his majesty being willing to give the said United States a new
proof of his affection and friendship, has been pleased to make a pre-
sent of, and to forgive the whole arrears of interest to this day, and from thence to the date of the treaty of peace; a favor which the minister of the congress of the United States acknowledges to flow from the
pure bounty of the king, and which he accepts in the name of the said .United States with profound and lively acknowledgments.

Art . 4. The payment of the said eighteen millions of livres tournois shall be in ready money at the royal treasury of his majesty at Paris, in twelve equal parts, and at the terms stipulated in the above second article. The interest of the said sum, at five per cent, per annum shall commence with the date of the treaty of peace, and shall be paid at every period of the partial payments of the capital, and shall diminish in proportion with the payments. The congress of the said United States being left, however, at liberty to free themselves sooner from this obligation by anticipated payments, in case the state of their finances
will admit.

Interest to diminish in proportion to payments, &c.

Art . 5. Although the loan of five millions of florins of Holland, agreed to by the states general of the United Provinces of the Nether-

616

APPENDIX.

Loan made by France in Holland, acknowledged to be for the use of U. S.

lands, on the terms of the obligation passed on the 5th of November, 1781, between his majesty and the said states general, has been made in his majesty's name, and guaranteed by him; it is nevertheless acknowledged by these presents, that the said Ioan was made in reality on account, and for the service, of the United States of North America, and that the capital, amounting, at a moderate valuation, to the sum of ten millions livres tournois, has been paid to the said United States, agreeably to a receipt for the payment of the said sum, given by the undersigned minister of congress, the seventh day of June last.

Engagement of the French king to .repay said loan.

Art . 6. By the convention of the said 5th of November, 1781, the king has been pleased to promise and engage to furnish and pay at the general counter of the states general of the Netherlands, the capital of the said loan, with the interest at four per cent, per annum, without any charge or deduction whatever to the lenders, so that the said capital shall be wholly repaid after the space of five years, the payments to be made in ten equal periods, the first of which to commence the sixth year from the date of the loan, and afterwards from year to year to the final payment of the said sum; but it is in like manner acknowledged by this act, that this engagement was entered into by the king, at the request of the undersigned minister of the United States, and on the promise by him made in the name of congress, and on behalf of the thirteen United States, to cause to be reimbursed and paid at the royal treasury of his majesty at Paris, the capital, interest, and cost of the said loan, according to the conditions and terms fixed by the said convention of the 5th of November, 1781.

Agreement to repay amount of the loan in Holland.

Art . 7. It is accordingly agreed and settled, that the sum of ten million livres tournois, being, by a moderate computation, the principal of the loan of five millions of Holland florins abovementioned, shall be reimbursed, and paid in ready money at the royal treasury of his majesty at Paris, with the interest at four per cent, per annum, in ten equal payments, of one million each, and in ten terms, the first of which shall be on the 5th of November, 1787, the second, the 5th November, 1788, and so from year to year till the final payment of the said sum of ten millions, the interest lessening in proportion with the partial payments of the capital. But in consequence of the king's affection for the United States, his majesty has been pleased to charge himself with the expense of commissions and bank for the said loan, of which expenses his majesty has made a present to the United States, and this their undersigned minister accepts, with thanks, in the name of congress, as a new proof of his majesty's generosity and friendship for the said United States.

Interest on the loan in Holland for five years, to be paid by U.S. to France.

Art . 8. With regard to the interest of the said loan during the five years preceding the first term of payment of the capital, as the king has engaged to pay it at the general counter of the states general of the Netherlands, at the rate of four per cent, yearly, and every year, counting from the 5th of November, 1781, according to the convention of that day, the minister of congress acknowledges that the repayment of that is due to his majesty by the United States, and he engages in the name of the said United States, to cause payment thereof to be made, at the same time and at the same rate at the royal treasury of his majesty; the first year's interest to be paid the 5th of November next, and so yearly, during the five years preceding the first term for the payment of the capital, fixed as above on the 5th of November, 1787.

The high contracting parties reciprocally bind themselves to the

APPENDIX.

617

faithful observance of this contract, the ratifications of which shall be exchanged in the space of nine months from this day, or sooner, if possible.

In testimony whereof, we, the said plenipotentiaries of his most Chris-

tian majesty, and of the thirteen United States of North America,

in virtue of our respective powers, have signed these presents,

and thereunto fixed the. seal of our arms.

Done at Versailles, the 16th day of July, one thousand seven hun-

dred and eighty-two.

GRAVIER DE VERGENNES, [l . s .]

B. FRANKLIN,

[l . s .]

Ratifications to be exchanged in nine months.

ADDITIONAL ARTICLE

To the Treaty with France, of November 9, 1843.

The crime of robbery, defining the same to be the felonious and forcible taking from the person of another, of goods or money to any value, by violence, or putting him in fear ; and the crime of burglary, defining the same to be, breaking and entering by night into a mansion house of another, with intent to commit felony; and the corresponding crimes included under the French law in the words vol qualifie crime, not being embraced in the second article of the convention of extradition concluded between the United States of America and France, on the 9th of November, 1843,--it is agreed by the present article, between the high contracting parties, that persons charged with those crimes shall be respectively delivered up, in conformity with the first article of the said convention ; and the present article, when ratified by the parties, shall constitute a part of the said convention, and shall have the same force as if it had been originally inserted in the same.
In witness whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the present article, in duplicate, and have affixed thereto the seal of their arms.
Done at Washington, this twenty-fourth of February, 1845.
J. C. CALHOUN, [l . s .] 78

Le crime de robbery, consistant dans 1'enlevement force et criminel, effectue sur la personne d'autrui, d'argent, ou d'effets d'une valeur quelconque, a 1'aide de violence ou d'intimidation; et le crime de burglary, consistant dans Faction de s'introduire nuitamment, et avec effraction ou escalade, dans 1'habitation d'autriii, avec une intention criminelle; et les crimes correspondants prevus et punis par la loi franjaise, sous la qualification de vols commis avec violence ou menaces, et de vols commis dans une maison habitee, avec les circonstances de la nuit et de 1'escalade, ou de 1'effraction, n'etant pas compris dans Particle 2 de la convention d'extradition conclue entre les Etats Unis d'Amerique, et la France, le 9 Novembre, 1843,--il est convenu, par le present article, entre les hautes parties contractantes, que les individus accuses de ces crimes seront respectivement livres, conformement a Particle 1 er de la dite convention; et le present article, lorsqu'il aura ete ratifie par les parties, fera partie de la dite convention, et aura la meme valeur que s'il y avait ete originairement inscrit.
En foi de quoi, les Plenipotentiaires respectifs ont signe, en double, le present article, et y ont appose le sceau de leurs armes.
Fait a Washington, le vingt quatre Fevrier, 1845.
A. PAGEOT, [l . s .] 3b 3

Feb. 24, 1845. ' Ratified May 5, 1845. Proclamation, July 24, 1845. The crimes or robbery and burglary defined, and included in the provisions of this treaty.
Ante, p. 583.

