ARMISTICE
Declaring a cessation of hostilities between the United States and Great-Britain.

Jan. 20, 1783. Ante, 54.

We , the undersigned Ministers Plenipotentiary of the United States of North-America, having received from Mr. Fitz Herbert, Minister Plenipotentiary of his Britannic Majesty, a declaration, relative to a suspension of arms, to be established between his said Majesty and the said States, the tenor whereof is as follows: Wher eas the preliminary articles agreed upon and signed this day,
between his Majesty the King of Great-Britain and his Majesty the most Christian King on the one part, and likewise between his said Britannic Majesty and his Catholic Majesty on the other part, contain the stipulation of a cessation of hostilities between those three powers, which is to take place after the exchange of the ratifications of the said preliminary articles: And wher eas , by the provisional treaty signed on the thirtieth day of November last, between his Britannic Majesty and the United States of North-America, it hath been stipulated, that that treaty should take effect as soon as peace should be established between the said crowns: The undersigned Minister Plenipotentiary of his Britannic Majesty, does declare, in the name and by the express order of the King, his master, that the said United States of North-America, their subjects and their possessions, shall be comprehended in the abovementioned suspension of arms, and that, in consequence, they shall enjoy the benefit of the cessation of hostilities, at the same epochs, and in the same manner as the three crowns above mentioned, their subjects, and their respective possessions; the whole upon condition, that on the part and in the name of the said United States of North-America, a similar declaration shall be delivered expressly, declaring their assent to the present suspension of arms, and containing the assurance of the most perfect reciprocity on their part.
In faith whereof, we, the Minister Plenipotentiary of his Britannic Majesty, have signed the present declaration, and have caused the seal of our arms to be thereto affixed.
Versailles, 20th January, 1783. (Signed) (l . s .) ALLEYNE FITZ HERBERT.
Have , in the name of the said United States of North-America, and by virtue of the powers with which they have vested us, accepted the above declaration, do by these presents merely and simply accept it, and do reciprocally declare that the said States shall cause all hostilities to cease against his Britannic Majesty, his subjects and his possessions, at the terms and epochs agreed upon between his said Majesty the King of Great-Britain, his Majesty the King of France, and his Majesty the King of Spain, so, and in the same manner, as has been agreed between those three crowns, and to produce the same effects.
In faith whereof, we, the Ministers Plenipotentiary of the United
(58)

ARMISTICE
Declarant une suspension d'armes entre les Etats Unis et la Grande Bretagne.
Nous soussignes Ministres Plenipotentiaires des Etats-Unis de I'Amerique Septentrionale, aiant regu de la part de M. Fitzherbert, Ministre Plenipotentiaire de sa Majeste Britannique, une declaration relative a une suspension d'armes a etablir entre sa dite Majeste et les dits Etats, dont la teneur s'en suit: Com me les articles preliminaires arretes et signes aujourd'hui entre
sa Majeste le Roi de la Grande Bretagne et sa Majeste le Roi Tres Chretien d'une part, et aussi entre sa dite Majeste Britannique et sa Majeste Catholique d'autre part, renferment la stipulation de la cessation des hostilites entre ces trois Puissances; laquelle doit commencer apres 1'echange des ratifications des dits articles preliminaires: et comme par le traite provisionel signe le 30 Novembre dernier entre sa Majeste Britannique et les Etats-Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale, il a ete stipule, que ce traite sortiroit son effet aussitot que la paix entre les dites couronnes seroit retablie; le soussigne Ministre Plenipotentiaire de sa Majeste Britannique, declare au nom, et par ordre expies du Roi son maitre, que les dits Etats-Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale, leurs sujets, et leurs possessions, seront compris dans la suspension d'armes susmentionnee, et. qu'ils jouiront en consequence du benefice de la cessation des hostilites aux memes epoques, et de la meme maniers que les trois couronnes susdites, leurs sujets et leurs possessions respectives; le tout a condition, que de la part et au nom des dits Etats-Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale, il soit delivre une declaration semblable qui constate leur assentiment a la presente suspension d'armes et renferme 1'assurance de la plus parfaite reciprocite de leur part.
En foi de quoi, nous Ministre Plenipotentiaire de sa Majeste Britannique, avons signe la presente declaration et y avons fait apposer le cachet de nos armes.
A Versailles le 20, Jan. 1783. (l . s .) (Signe) ALLEYNE FITZ HERBERT.
Avo ns au nom des dits Etats-Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale et en vertu des pouvoirs dont ils nous ont munis, accepte la declaration ci-dessus, 1'acceptons par ces presentes purement et simplement et declarons reciproquement que les dits Etats feront cesser toutes hostilites contre sa Majeste Britannique, ses sujets et ses possessions, aux termes et aux epoques convenus entre sa dite Majeste le Roi de la Grande Bretagne, sa Majeste le Roi de France et sa Majeste le Roi d'Espagne, ainsi, et de la meme maniere qu'il a ete convenu entre ces trois couronnes, et pour produire le meme eifet.
En foi de quoi nous Ministres Plenipotentiaires des Etats-Unis de (59)

60

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

States North-America, have signed the present declaration, and have affixed thereto the seal of our arms.

Versailles, 2Qth of January, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-

three.

(Signed) JOHN ADAMS, (l . s .) B. FRANKLIN, (l . s.)

Copy of the first and twenty-second of the Preliminary Articles, between
France and Great-Britain, signed at Versailles the twentieth Ja-
nuary, 1783.
Art . 1. As soon as the preliminaries shall be signed and ratified, sincere friendship shall be re-established between his most Christian Majesty and his Britannic Majesty, their kingdoms, states, and subjects by sea and by land, in all parts of the world; orders shall be sent to the armies and squadrons, as well as to the subjects of the two powers, to cease all hostilities, and to live in the most perfect union, forgetting the past, according to the order and example of their sovereigns; and for the execution of this article, sea-passes shall be given on each side to the ships which shall be dispatched to carry the news to the possessions of the said powers.
Art . 22. To prevent all the causes of complaint and dispute which might arise on account of the prizes which may be taken at sea after the signing of these preliminary articles, it is reciprocally agreed, that the vessels and effects which may be taken in the Channel and in the North Seas, after the space of twelve days, to be computed from the ratification of the present preliminary articles, shall be restored on each side. That the term shall be of one month from the Channel and the North Seas to the Canary Islands inclusively, whether in the Ocean or in the Mediterranean; of two months from the said Canary Islands to the Equinoxial Line or Equator; and lastly, of five months in all other parts of the world, without any exception, nor other more particular distinction of times and places.

April 3, 1783.

TREATY OF AMITY AND COMMERCE,
Concluded between his Majesty the King of Sweden and the United States of North-America, (a)
The King of Sweden, of the Goths and Vandals, &c. &c. &c. and the Thirteen United States' of North-America; to wit: New-Hampshire, Massachusetts-Bay, Rhode-Island, Connecticut, New-York, NewJersey, Pennsylvania, the counties of New-Castle, Kent and Sussex on Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina, and Georgia, desiring to establish, in a stable and permanent manner, the rules which ought to be observed relative to the correspondence and commerce which the two parties have judged necessary to establish between their respective countries, states and subjects; his Majesty and the United States have thought that they could not better accomplish that end, than by taking for a basis of their arrangements the mutual interest and advantage of both nations, thereby avoiding all those burthensome preferences, which are usually sources of debate, embarrass-
(a) The Treaties with Sweden have been: The Treaty of April 3, 1783. The Treaty of September 4, 1816 ; post, 232. The Treaty of July 4, 1827; post, 346.

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

61

1'Amerique Septentrionale avons signe la presente declaration et y avons appose les cachets de nos armes.
A Versailles le vingt Janvier, mil sept cent quatre-vingt trois.

JOHN ADAMS, (l . s.) B. FRANKLIN, (l . s .)

Copie du premier et du vingt deuxieme des articles preliminaires entre la
France et la Grande Bretagne, signes a. Versailles le 20 Janvier, 1783.
Ar t . 1. Aussitot que les preliminaires seront signes et ratifies, 1'amitie sincere sera retablie entre sa Majeste Tres Chretienne et sa Majeste Britannique, leurs Royaumes, Etats et Sujets par nier et par terre, dans toutes les parties du monde; il sera envoye des ordres aux armees, et escadres, ainsi qu'aux sujets des deux Puissances de cesser toute hostilite, et de vivre dans la plus parfaite union en oubliant le passe, dont leurs souverains leur donnent 1'ordre et 1'exemple; et pour 1'execution de cet article, il sera donne, de part et d'autre des passeports de mer aux vaisseaux qui seront expedies pour en porter la nouvelle dans les possessions des dites puissances.
Art . 22. Pour prevenir tous les sujets de plaintes et de contestation qui pourroient naitre a 1'occasion des prises qui pourroient etre faites en mer depuis la signature de ces articles preliminaires, on est convenu reciproquement que les vaisseaux et effets qui pourroient etre pris dans la Manche et dans les Mers du Nord, apres 1'espace de douze jours a, compter depuis la ratification des presens articles preliminaires, seront de part et d'autre restitues; Que le terme sera d'un mois depuis la Manche et les Mers du Nord, jusqu'aux Isles Canaries inclusivement, soit dans 1'ocean, soit dans la Mediterrannee; de deux mois depuis les dites Isles Canaries, jusqu'a la ligne Equinoxiale ou 1'Equateur; et enfin de cinq mois dans tous les autres endroits du monde, sans aucune exception ni autre distinction plus particuliere de terns et de lieux.

TRAITE D'AMITIE ET DE COMMERCE,
Conclu entre sa Majeste le Roi de Suede et les Etats Unis de l'Amerique Septentrionale.
Le Roi de Suede des Goths et des Vandales, &c. &c. &c. et les treize Etats Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale, scavoir, New-Hampshire, Massachusetts-Bay, Rhode-Island, Connecticut, New-York, NewJersey, Pensylvanie, les comtes de New-Castle, de Kent et de Sussex sur la Delaware, Maryland, Virginie, Caroline Septentrionale, Caroline Meridionale, et Georgie, desirant d'etablir d'une maniere stable et permanente les regies qui doivent etre suivies relativement a la correspondance et au commerce que les deux parties ont juge necessaire de fixer entre leurs pays, etats et sujets respectifs, sa Majeste et les Etats Unis ont cru ne pouvoir mieux remplir ce but qu'en posant pour base de leurs arrangemens, 1'utilite et 1'avantage reciproques des deux nations, en evitant toutes les preferences onereuses qui sont ordinairement une source de discussions, d'embarras et de mecontenternents; et
F

DEFINITIVE TREATY OF PEACE

Between the United States of America and his Britannic Majesty, (a)

Sept. 3,1783.

In the name of the Most Holy and Undivided Trinity. It having pleased the Divine Providence to dispose the hearts of the most serene and most potent Prince Geor ge the Third, by the Grace of God King of Great-Britain, France and Ireland, Defender of the Faith, Duke of Brunswick and Lunebourg, Arch-Treasurer and Prince Elector of the Holy Roman Empire, &c. and of the Uni ted States of Ame ri ca , to forget all past misunderstandings and differences that have unhappily interrupted the good correspondence and friendship which they mutually wish to restore; and to establish such a beneficial and satisfactory intercourse between the two countries, upon the ground of reciprocal advantages and mutual convenience, as may promote and

(a) The decisions of the Courts of the United States in cases arising under the Definitive Treaty of Peace with Great Britain of September 3, 1783, have been:
The fifth article of the treaty of peace of 1783, between the United States and Great Britain, concluding with this clause: "And it is agreed, that all persons who have any interest in confiscated lands, either by debts, marriage settlements, or otherwise, shall meet with no lawful impediment in the prosecution of their just rights applies to those cases where an actual confiscation has taken place; and stipulates, that in such cases, the interest of all persons having a lien upon such lands shall be preserved. That clause of the treaty preserved the lien of a mortgagee of confiscated lands, which, at the time of the treaty, remained unsold. Higginson v. Mein, 4 Cranch, 415; 2 Cond. Rep. 155.
The treaties with Great Britain, of 1783 and 1794, only provide for titles existing at the time those treaties were made, and not for titles subsequently acquired. Actual possession of property is not necessary to give the party the benefit of the treaty. Blight's Lessee v. Rochester, 7 Wheat. 535; 5 Cond. Rep. 335.
Where J. D., an alien and British subject, came into the United States subsequent to the treaty of 1783, and, before the treaty of 1794 was signed, died seised of lands, it was held that the title of his heirs to the land was not protected by the treaty of 1794. Ibid.
Thomas Scott, a native of South Carolina, died in 1782, intestate, seised of land on James Island, having two daughters, Ann and Sarah, both born in South Carolina before the declaration of independence. Sarah married D. P. a citizen of South Carolina, and died in 1802, entitled to one half of the estate. The British took possession of James Island and Charleston in February and May, 1780 ; and in 1781 Ann Scott married Joseph Shanks, a British officer; and at the evacuation of Charleston in 1782, she went to England with her husband, where she remained until her death in 1801. She left five children, born in England. They claimed the other moiety of the real estate of Thomas Scott, in right of their mother, under the ninth article of the treaty of peace between this country and Great Britain of the 19th of November, 1794. Held, that they were entitled to recover and hold the same. Shanks et al. v. Dupont et al. 3 Peters, 242.
All British born subjects, whose allegiance Great Britain has never renounced, ought, upon general principles of interpretation, to be held within the intent, as they certainly are within the words, of the treaty of 1794. Ibid. 250.
The treaty of 1783, acted upon the state of things as it existed at that period. It took the actual state of things as its basis. All those, whether natives or otherwise, who then adhered to the American states, were virtually absolved from all allegiance to the British crown ; all those who then adhered to the British crown were deemed and held subjects of that crown. The treaty of peace was a treaty operating between states and the inhabitants thereof. Ibid. 274.
The several states which compose this Union, so far at least as regarded their municipal regulations, became entitled,from the time when they declared themselves independent, to all the rights and powers of sovereign states; and did not derive them from concessions of the British king. The treaty of peace contains a recognition of the independence of these states, not a grant of it. The laws of the several state governments; passed after the declaration of independence, were the laws of sovereign states, and as such were obligatory upon the people of each state. M'llvainev. Coxe's Lessee, 4 Cranch, 209 ; 2 Cond. Rep. 86.
The property of British corporations, in this country, is protected by the sixth article of the treaty of peace of 1783, in the same manner as those of natural persons; and their title, thus protected, is confirmed by the ninth article of the treaty of 1794, so that it could not be forfeited by any intermediate legislative act, or other proceeding for the defect of alienage. The Society for Propagating the Gospel, &c. v. New Haven, 8 Wheat. 464 ; 5 Cond. Rep. 489. See also, post, p. 116, n.
(80)

DEFINITIVE TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1783.

81

secure to both perpetual peace and harmony: And having for this desirable end, already laid the foundation of peace and reconciliation, by the provisional articles, signed at Paris, on the thirtieth of November, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-two, by the commissioners empowered on each part, which articles were agreed to be inserted in, and to constitute the treaty of peace proposed to be concluded between the crown of Great-Britain and the said United States, but which treaty
was not to be concluded until terms of peace should be agreed upon between Great-Britain and France, and his Britannic Majesty should be
ready to conclude such treaty accordingly; and the treaty between Great-Britain and France, having since been concluded, his Britannic Majesty and the United States of America, in order to carry into full effect the provisional articles abovementioned, according to the tenor
thereof, have constituted and appointed, that is to say, His Britannic Majesty on his part, David Hartley, Esquire, Member of the Parliament of Great-Britain ; and the said United States on their part, John Adams,
Esquire, late a Commissioner of the United States of America at the Court of Versailles, late Delegate in Congress from the state of Massachusetts, and Chief Justice of the said state, and Minister Plenipotentiary of the said United States to their High Mightinesses the States General of the United Netherlands; Benjamin Franklin, Esquire, late Delegate in Congress from the state of Pennsylvania, President of the Convention of the said state, and Minister Plenipotentiary from the United States of America at the Court of Versailles; John Jay, Esquire,
late President of Congress, and Chief Justice of the state of NewYork, and Minister Plenipotentiary from the said United States at the
Court of Madrid, to be the Plenipotentiaries for the concluding and signing the present definitive treaty; who after having reciprocally communicated their respective full powers, have agreed upon and confirmed the following articles.
ARTICLE I. His Britannic Majesty acknowledges the said United States, viz.
New-Hampshire, Massachusetts-Bay, Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations, Connecticut, New-York, New-Jersey, Pennsylvania, Dela-
ware, Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina, and Georgia, to be free, sovereign and independent States; that he treats with them as such; and for himself, his heirs and successors, relinquishes all
claims to the government, propriety and territorial rights of the same, and every part thereof.
ARTICLE II. And that all disputes which might arise in future, on the subject of the
boundaries of the said United States, may be prevented, it is hereby agreed
and declared, that the following are, and shall be their boundaries, viz. From the north-west angle of Nova-Scotia, viz. that angle which is
formed by a line, drawn due north from the source of St. Croix river to the Highlands ; along the said Highlands which divide those rivers, that empty themselves into the river St. Lawrence, from those which fall into the Atlantic ocean, to the northwesternmost head of Connecticut river,
thence down along the middle of that river, to the forty-fifth degree of north latitude; from thence, by a line due west on said latitude, until it strikes the river Iroquois or Cataraquy; thence along the middle of said river into lake Ontario, through the middle of said lake until it strikes the communication by water between that lake and lake Erie;
thence along the middle of said communication into lake Erie, through the middle of said lake until it arrives at the water-communication
between that lake and lake Huron; thence along the middle of said water-communication into the lake Huron; thence through the middle
of said lake to the water-communication between that lake and lake Superior; thence through lake Superior northward of the isles Royal
11

United States acknowledged to be independent. Boundaries established.

82

DEFINITIVE TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1783.

Right of fishery secured.
Debts to be paid.
Congress to recommend to the states restitution of confiscated estates.

and Phelipeaux, to the Long Lake; thence through the middle of said Long Lake, and the water-communication between it and the Lake of the Woods, to the said Lake of the Woods; thence through the said lake to the most north-western point thereof, and from thence on a due west course to the river Missisippi; thence by a line to be drawn along the middle of the said river Missisippi until it shall intersect the northernmost part of the thirty-first degree of north latitude. South by a line to be drawn due east from the determination of the line last mentioned, in the latitude of thirty-one degrees north of the Equator, to the middle of the river Apalachicola or Catahouche; thence along the middle thereof to its junction with the Flint river; thence strait to the head of St. Mary's river; and thence down along the middle of St. Mary's river to the Atlantic ocean. East by a line to be drawn along the middle of the river St. Croix, from its mouth in the Bay of Fundy to its source, and from its source directly north to the aforesaid Highlands which divide the rivers that fall into the Atlantic ocean, from those which fall into the river St. Lawrence; comprehending all islands within twenty leagues of any part of the shores of the United States, and lying between lines to be drawn due east from the points where the aforesaid boundaries between Nova-Scotia on the one part, and EastFlorida on the other, shall respectively touch the Bay of Fundy and the Atlantic ocean; excepting such islands as now are, or heretofore have been within the limits of the said province of Nova-Scotia.
ARTICLE III. It is agreed that the people of the United States shall continue to enjoy unmolested the right to take fish of every kind on the Grand Bank, and on all the other banks of Newfoundland; also in the gulph of St. Lawrence, and at all other places in the sea, where the inhabitants of both countries used at any time heretofore to fish; and also that the inhabitants of the United States shall have liberty to take fish of every kind on such part of the coast of Newfoundland as British fishermen shall use (but not to dry or cure the same on that island); and also on the coasts, bays and creeks of all other of his Britannic Majesty's dominions in America; and that the American fishermen shall have liberty to dry and cure fish in any of the unsettled bays, harbours and creeks of Nova-Scotia, Magdalen islands, and Labrador, so long as the same shall remain unsettled; but so soon as the same or either of them shall be settled, it shall not be lawful for the said fishermen to dry or cure fish at such settlement, without a previous agreement for that purpose with the inhabitants, proprietors or possessors of the ground.
ARTICLE IV. It is agreed that creditors on either side, shall meet with no lawful impediment to the recovery of the full value in sterling money, of all bona fide debts heretofore contracted.
ARTICLE V. It is agreed that the Congress shall earnestly recommend it to the legislatures of the respective states, to provide for the restitution of all estates, rights and properties, which have been confiscated, belonging to real British subjects, and also of the estates, rights and properties of persons resident in districts in the possession of his Majesty's arms, and who have not borne arms against the said United States. And that persons of any other description shall have free liberty to go to any part or parts of any of the thirteen United States, and therein to remain twelve months, unmolested in their endeavours to obtain the restitution of such of their estates, rights and properties, as may have been confiscated; and that Congress shall also earnestly recommend to the several states a reconsideration and revision of all acts or laws regarding the premises, so as to render the said laws or acts perfectly con-

DEFINITIVE TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1783.

83

sistent, not only with justice and equity, but with that spirit of conciliation, which on the return of the blessings of peace should universally
prevail. And that Congress shall also earnestly recommend to the several states, that the estates, rights and properties of such last men-
tioned persons, shall be restored to them, they refunding to any persons who may be now in possession, the bona fide price (where any has been given) which such persons may have paid on purchasing any of the said lands, rights or properties, since the confiscation. And it is agreed, that all persons who have any interest in confiscated lands, either by
debts, marriage settlements, or otherwise, shall meet with no lawful impediment in the prosecution of their just rights.

ARTICLE VI.
That there shall be no future confiscations made, nor any prosecu-
tions commenced against any person or persons for, or by reason of the part which he or they may have taken in the present war; and that no person shall, on that account, suffer any future loss or damage, either in
his person, liberty or property; and that those who may be in confinement on such charges, at the time of the ratification of the treaty in America, shall be immediately set at liberty, and the prosecutions so commenced be discontinued.
ARTICLE VII.
There shall be a firm and perpetual peace between his Britannic Majesty and the said States, and between the subjects of the one and the citizens of the other, wherefore all hostilities, both by sea and land, shall from henceforth cease: all prisoners on both sides shall be set at liberty, and his Britannic Majesty shall, with all convenient speed, and without causing any destruction, or carrying away any negroes or other
property of the American inhabitants, withdraw all his armies, garrisons and fleets from the said United States, and from every post, place and harbour within the same; leaving in all fortifications the American artillery that may be therein ; and shall also order and cause all archives, records, deeds and papers, belonging to any of the said states, or their
citizens, which in the course of the war may have fallen into the hands of his officers, to be forthwith restored and delivered to the proper states and persons to whom they belong.

ARTICLE VIII.
The navigation of the river Missisippi, from its source to the ocean, shall for ever remain free and open to the subjects of Great-Britain, and the citizens of the United States.
ARTICLE IX. In case it should so happen that any place or territory belonging to
Great-Britain or to the United States, should have been conquered by the arms of either from the other, before the arrival of the said provisional
articles in America, it is agreed, that the same shall be restored without difficulty, and without requiring any compensation.

ARTICLE X. The solemn ratifications of the present treaty, expedited in good and due form, shall be exchanged between the contracting parties, in the space of six months, or sooner if possible, to be computed from the day
of the signature of the present treaty. In witness whereof, we the undersigned, their Ministers Plenipotentiary, have in their name and in virtue of our full powers, signed with our hands the present definitive treaty, and caused the seals of our arms to be affixed thereto.
Done at Paris, this third day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three.

D. HARTLEY, JOHN ADAMS, B. FRANKLIN, JOHN JAY,

(l . s.) (l . s.)
(l . s .)
(l . s.)

No further confiscations or prosecutions. Hostilities to cease, and British armies to be withdrawn.
Navigation of the Mississippi to be free to both nations. Conquests before arrival of these articles in America to be restored.
Ratification.

60

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

States North-America, have signed the present declaration, and have affixed thereto the seal of our arms.

Versailles, 2Qth of January, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-

three.

(Signed) JOHN ADAMS, (l . s .) B. FRANKLIN, (l . s.)

Copy of the first and twenty-second of the Preliminary Articles, between
France and Great-Britain, signed at Versailles the twentieth Ja-
nuary, 1783.
Art . 1. As soon as the preliminaries shall be signed and ratified, sincere friendship shall be re-established between his most Christian Majesty and his Britannic Majesty, their kingdoms, states, and subjects by sea and by land, in all parts of the world; orders shall be sent to the armies and squadrons, as well as to the subjects of the two powers, to cease all hostilities, and to live in the most perfect union, forgetting the past, according to the order and example of their sovereigns; and for the execution of this article, sea-passes shall be given on each side to the ships which shall be dispatched to carry the news to the possessions of the said powers.
Art . 22. To prevent all the causes of complaint and dispute which might arise on account of the prizes which may be taken at sea after the signing of these preliminary articles, it is reciprocally agreed, that the vessels and effects which may be taken in the Channel and in the North Seas, after the space of twelve days, to be computed from the ratification of the present preliminary articles, shall be restored on each side. That the term shall be of one month from the Channel and the North Seas to the Canary Islands inclusively, whether in the Ocean or in the Mediterranean; of two months from the said Canary Islands to the Equinoxial Line or Equator; and lastly, of five months in all other parts of the world, without any exception, nor other more particular distinction of times and places.

April 3, 1783.

TREATY OF AMITY AND COMMERCE,
Concluded between his Majesty the King of Sweden and the United States of North-America, (a)
The King of Sweden, of the Goths and Vandals, &c. &c. &c. and the Thirteen United States' of North-America; to wit: New-Hampshire, Massachusetts-Bay, Rhode-Island, Connecticut, New-York, NewJersey, Pennsylvania, the counties of New-Castle, Kent and Sussex on Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina, and Georgia, desiring to establish, in a stable and permanent manner, the rules which ought to be observed relative to the correspondence and commerce which the two parties have judged necessary to establish between their respective countries, states and subjects; his Majesty and the United States have thought that they could not better accomplish that end, than by taking for a basis of their arrangements the mutual interest and advantage of both nations, thereby avoiding all those burthensome preferences, which are usually sources of debate, embarrass-
(a) The Treaties with Sweden have been: The Treaty of April 3, 1783. The Treaty of September 4, 1816 ; post, 232. The Treaty of July 4, 1827; post, 346.

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

61

1'Amerique Septentrionale avons signe la presente declaration et y avons appose les cachets de nos armes.
A Versailles le vingt Janvier, mil sept cent quatre-vingt trois.

JOHN ADAMS, (l . s.) B. FRANKLIN, (l . s .)

Copie du premier et du vingt deuxieme des articles preliminaires entre la
France et la Grande Bretagne, signes a. Versailles le 20 Janvier, 1783.
Ar t . 1. Aussitot que les preliminaires seront signes et ratifies, 1'amitie sincere sera retablie entre sa Majeste Tres Chretienne et sa Majeste Britannique, leurs Royaumes, Etats et Sujets par nier et par terre, dans toutes les parties du monde; il sera envoye des ordres aux armees, et escadres, ainsi qu'aux sujets des deux Puissances de cesser toute hostilite, et de vivre dans la plus parfaite union en oubliant le passe, dont leurs souverains leur donnent 1'ordre et 1'exemple; et pour 1'execution de cet article, il sera donne, de part et d'autre des passeports de mer aux vaisseaux qui seront expedies pour en porter la nouvelle dans les possessions des dites puissances.
Art . 22. Pour prevenir tous les sujets de plaintes et de contestation qui pourroient naitre a 1'occasion des prises qui pourroient etre faites en mer depuis la signature de ces articles preliminaires, on est convenu reciproquement que les vaisseaux et effets qui pourroient etre pris dans la Manche et dans les Mers du Nord, apres 1'espace de douze jours a, compter depuis la ratification des presens articles preliminaires, seront de part et d'autre restitues; Que le terme sera d'un mois depuis la Manche et les Mers du Nord, jusqu'aux Isles Canaries inclusivement, soit dans 1'ocean, soit dans la Mediterrannee; de deux mois depuis les dites Isles Canaries, jusqu'a la ligne Equinoxiale ou 1'Equateur; et enfin de cinq mois dans tous les autres endroits du monde, sans aucune exception ni autre distinction plus particuliere de terns et de lieux.

TRAITE D'AMITIE ET DE COMMERCE,
Conclu entre sa Majeste le Roi de Suede et les Etats Unis de l'Amerique Septentrionale.
Le Roi de Suede des Goths et des Vandales, &c. &c. &c. et les treize Etats Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale, scavoir, New-Hampshire, Massachusetts-Bay, Rhode-Island, Connecticut, New-York, NewJersey, Pensylvanie, les comtes de New-Castle, de Kent et de Sussex sur la Delaware, Maryland, Virginie, Caroline Septentrionale, Caroline Meridionale, et Georgie, desirant d'etablir d'une maniere stable et permanente les regies qui doivent etre suivies relativement a la correspondance et au commerce que les deux parties ont juge necessaire de fixer entre leurs pays, etats et sujets respectifs, sa Majeste et les Etats Unis ont cru ne pouvoir mieux remplir ce but qu'en posant pour base de leurs arrangemens, 1'utilite et 1'avantage reciproques des deux nations, en evitant toutes les preferences onereuses qui sont ordinairement une source de discussions, d'embarras et de mecontenternents; et
F

62

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

ment and discontent, and by leaving each party at liberty to make, respecting navigation and commerce, those interior regulations which shall be most convenient to itself.
With this view, his Majesty the King of Sweden has nominated and appointed for his plenipotentiary Count Gustavus Philip de Creutz, his ambassador extraordinary to his Most Christian Majesty, and knight commander of his orders; and the United States, on their part, have fully empowered Benjamin Franklin, their minister plenipotentiary to his Most Christian Majesty : the said plenipotentiaries, after exchanging their full powers, and after mature deliberation in consequence thereof, have agreed upon, concluded and signed the following articles:

Peace and friendship between the two nations.
Neither party to grant favours to other nations that shall not become common to the other party.
Subjects of Sweden entitled to the same privileges in U. S. as the most favoured nations.

ARTICLE I.
There shall be a firm, inviolable and universal peace, and a true and sincere friendship between the King of Sweden, his heirs and successors, and the United States of America, and the subjects of his Majesty, and those of the said States, and between the countries, islands, cities, and towns situated under the jurisdiction of the King and of the said United States, without any exception of persons or places; and the conditions agreed to in this present treaty, shall be perpetual and permanent between the King, his heirs and successors, and the said United States.
ARTICLE II.
The King and the United States engage mutually, not to grant hereafter any particular favour to other nations in respect to commerce and navigation, which shall not immediately become common to the other party, who shall enjoy the same favour freely, if the concession was freely made, or on allowing the same compensation, if the concession was conditional.
ARTICLE III.
The subjects of the King of Sweden shall not pay in the ports, havens, roads, countries, islands, cities and towns of the United States, or in any of them, any other nor greater duties or imposts of what nature soever they may be, than those which the most favoured nations are or shall be obliged to pay; and they shall enjoy all the rights, liberties, privileges, immunities and exemptions in trade, navigation and commerce which the said nations do or shall enjoy, whether in passing from one port to another of the United States, or in going to or from the same, from or to any part of the world whatever.

Citizens of the U. S. entitled to the same privileges in Sweden as the most favoured nations.

ARTICLE IV.
The subjects and inhabitants of the said United States shall not pay in the ports, havens, roads, islands, cities and towns under the dominion of the King of Sweden, any other or greater duties or imposts of what nature soever they may be, or by what name soever called, than those which the most favoured nations are or shall be obliged to pay; and they shall enjoy all the rights, liberties, privileges, immunities and exemptions in trade, navigation and commerce which the said nations do or shall enjoy, whether in passing from one port to another of the dominion of his said Majesty, or in going to or from the same, from or to any part of the world whatever.

Liberty of con science, &c. secured.

ARTICLE V. There shall be granted a full, perfect and entire liberty of conscience to the inhabitants and subjects of each party, and no person shall be molested on account of his worship, provided he submits so far as regards the public demonstration of it to the laws of the country. Moreover, liberty shall be granted, when any of the subjects or inhabitants

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

63

en laissant a chaque part.ie la liberte de faire au sujet du commerce et de la navigation, les reglemens interieurs qui seront a sa convenance.
Dans cette vue sa Majeste le Roi de Suede a nomme et constitue pour son plenipotentiaire le Comte Gustave Philippe de Creutz, son ambassadeur extraordinaire pres sa Majeste tres Chretienne et Chevalier commandeur de ses ordres; et les Etats Unis ont de leur cote pourvu de leurs pleinpouvoirs le Sieur Benjamin Franklin, leur ministre plenipotentiaire pres sa Majeste tres Chretienne; les quels, plenipotentiaires apres avoir echange leurs pleinpouvoirs et en consequence d'une mure deliberation ont arrete, conclu, et signe les articles suivants.
ARTICLE I. Il y aura une paix ferme, inviolable et universelle et une amitie vraie et sincere entre le Roi de Suede, ses heritiers et successeurs, et entre les fitats Unis de 1'Amerique, ainsi qu'entre les sujets de sa Majeste et ceux des dits fitats, comme aussi entre les pays, isles, villes et places, situees sous la jurisdiction du Roi, et des dits Etats Unis, sans exception aucune de personnes et de lieux; les conditions stipulees dans le present traite devant etre perpetuelles et permanentes entre le Roi, ses heritiers et successeurs et les dits Etats Unis.

ARTICLE II. Le Roi et les fitats Unis s'engagent mutuellement a n'accorder par la suite aucune faveur particuliere en fait de commerce et de navigation a d'autres nations, qui ne devienne aussitot commune a 1'autre partie; et celle-cy jouira de cette faveur gratuitement si la concession est gratuite; ou en accordant la meme compensation si la concession est conditionelle.
ARTICLE III. Les sujets du Roi de Suede ne payeront dans les ports, havres, rades, contrees, isles, villes et. places des Etats Unis, ou dans aucun d'iceux, d'autres ni de plus grands droits et impots de quelque nature qu'ils puissent etre, que ceux que les nations les plus favorisees sont ou seront tenues de payer; et ils jouiront de tous les droits, libertes, privileges, immunites et exemptions en fait de negoce, navigation et de commerce dont jouissent ou jouiront les dites nations, soit en passant d'un port a 1'autre des dits fitats, soit en y allant ou en revenant de quelque partie ou pour quelque partie du monde que ce soit.
ARTICLE IV. Les sujets et habitants des dits Etats Unis ne payeront dans les ports, havres, rades, isles, villes et places de la domination du Roi de Suede, d'autres ni de plus grands droits ou impots, de quelque nature qu'ils puissent etre et quelque nom qu'ils puissent avoir, que ceux que les nations les plus favorisees sont ou seront tenues de payer; et ils jouiront de tous les droits, libertes, privileges, immunites, et exemptions en fait de negoce, navigation et commerce dont jouissent ou jouiront les dites nations, soit en passant d'un port a un autre de la domination de sa dite Majeste, soit en y allant ou en revenant de quelque partie du monde ou pour quelque partie du monde que ce soit.
ARTICLE V. Il sera accorde une pleine, parfaite et entiere liberte de conscience aux habitants et sujets de chaque partie, et personne ne sera moleste a 1'egard de son culte, moyennant qu'il se soumette, quant a la demonstration publique, aux loix du pays. De plus on permettra aux habitans et sujets de chaque partie, qui decedent dans le territoire de 1'autre partie,

64

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

Citizens may dispose of estate, may inherit and may remove their effects. Liberty for either party to trade with a nation at war with the other. Free ships make free goods; except contraband articles.

of either party die in the territory of the other, to bury them in convenient and decent places, which shall be assigned for the purpose; and the two contracting parties will provide each in its jurisdiction, that the subjects and inhabitants respectively may obtain certificates of the death, in case the delivery of them is required.
ARTICLE VI. The subjects of the contracting parties in the respective states, may freely dispose of their goods and effects either by testament, donation or otherwise, in favour of such persons as they think proper; and their heirs in whatever place they shall reside, shall receive the succession even ab intestato, either in person or by their attorney, without having occasion to take out letters of naturalization. These inheritances, as well as the capitals and effects, which the subjects of the two parties, in changing their dwelling, shall be desirous of removing from the place of their abode, shall be exempted from all duty called " droit de detraction," on the part of the government of the two states respectively. But it is at the same time agreed, that nothing contained in this article shall in any manner derogate from the ordinances published in Sweden against emigrations, or which may hereafter be published, which shall remain in full force and vigour. The United States on their part, or any of them, shall be at liberty to make respecting this matter, such laws as they think proper.
ARTICLE VII. All and every the subjects and inhabitants of the kingdom of Sweden, as well as those of the United States, shall be permitted to navigate with their vessels in all safety and freedom, and without any regard to those to whom the merchandizes and cargoes may belong, from any port whatever; and the subjects and inhabitants of the two states shall likewise be permitted to sail and trade with their vessels, and with the same liberty and safety to frequent the places, ports and havens of powers, enemies to both or either of the contracting parties, without being in any wise molested or troubled, and to carry on a commerce not only directly from the ports of an enemy to a neutral port, but even from one port of an enemy to another port of an enemy, whether it be under the jurisdiction of the same or of different princes. And as it is acknowledged by this treaty, with respect to ships and merchandizes, that free ships shall make merchandizes [free,] and that every thing which shall be on board of ships belonging to subjects of the one or the other of the contracting parties, shall be considered as free, even though the cargo or a part of it should belong to the enemies of one or both; it is nevertheless provided, that contraband goods shall always be excepted; which being intercepted, shall be proceeded against according to the spirit of the following articles. It is likewise agreed, that the same liberty be extended to persons who may be on board a free ship, with this effect, that although they be enemies to both or either of the parties, they shall not be taken out of the free ship, unless they are soldiers in the actual service of the said enemies.

This liberty extends to all kinds of merchandize, except contraband. What goods shall be deemed contraband.

ARTICLE VIII. This liberty of navigation and commerce shall extend to all kinds of merchandizes, except those only which are expressed in the following article, and are distinguished by the name of contraband goods.
ARTICLE IX. Under the name of contraband or prohibited goods, shall be comprehended arms, great guns, cannon balls, arquebuses, musquets, mortars, bombs, petards, granadoes, saucisses, pitch balls, carriages for ordnance,

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

65

d'etre enterres dans les endroits convenables et decents qui seront assignes a cet effet, et les deux puissances contractantes pourvoiront chacune dans sa jurisdiction, a ce que les sujets et habitans respectifs puissent obtenir les certificats de mort en cas qu'il soit requis de les livrer.

ARTICLE VI. Les sujets des parties contractantes pourront dans les etats respectifs disposer librement de leurs fonds et biens, soit par testament, donation ou autrement en faveur de telles personnes que bon leur semblera, et leurs heritiers dans quelque endroit ou ils demeureront, pourront recevoir ces successions, meme ab intestato, soit en personne, soit par un procureur, sans qu'ils aient besoin d'obtenir des lettres de naturalisation. Ces heritages, aussi bien que les capitaux et fonds que les sujets des deux parties, en changeant de demeure, voudront faire sortir de 1'endroit de leur domicile, seront exemts de tout droit de detraction, de la part du gouvernement des deux etats respectifs. Mais il est convenu en meme terns, que le contenu de cet article ne derogera en aucune maniere aux ordonnances promulguees en Suede contre les emigrations, ou qui pourront par la suite etre promulguees, les quelles demeureront dans toute leur force et vigueur. Les Etats Unis de leur cote, ou aucun d'entre eux, seront libres de statuer sur cette matiere telle loi qu'ils jugeront a propos.
ARTICLE VII. Il sera permis a tous et un chacun des sujets et habitans du Royaume de Suede, ainsi qu' a ceux des fitats Unis, de naviguer avec leurs batimens en toute surete et liberte, et sans distinction de ceux a qui les marchandises et leurs chargemens appartiendront, de quelque port que ce soit. Il sera permis egalement aux sujets et habitans des deux Etats de naviguer et de negocier avec leurs vaisseaux et marchandises, et de frequenter avec la meme liberte et surete, les places, ports et havres des puissances ennemies des deux parties contractantes, ou de 1'une d'elles, sans etre aucunement inquietes ni troubles, et de faire le commerce non seulement directement des ports de 1'ennemi a un port neutre, mais encore d'un port ennemi a un autre port ennemi; soit qu'il se trouve sous la jurisdiction d'un meme ou de differents princes. Et comme il est regu par le present traite par rapport aux navires et aux marchandises, que les vaisseaux libres rendront les marchandises libres, et que 1'on regardera comme libre tout ce qui sera abord des navires appartenants aux sujets d'une ou de 1'autre des parties contractantes, quand meme le chargement, ou partie d'icelui appartiendroit aux ennemis de 1'un des deux; bien entendu neanmoins que les marchandises de contrebande seront toujours exceptees; les quelles etant interceptees, il sera procede conformement a 1'esprit des articles suivants. Il est egalement convenu que cette meme liberte s'etendra aux personnes qui naviguentsur un vaisseau libre; de maniere que quoi qu'elles soient ennemies des deux parties ou de I'une d'elles, elles ne seront point tirees du vaisseau libre, si ce n'est que ce fussent des gens de guerre actuellement au service des dits ennemis.

ARTICLE VIII. Cette liberte de navigation et de commerce s'etendra a toutes fortes de marchandises, a la reserve seulement de celles qui sont exprimees dans Particle suivant et designees sous le nom de marchandises de contrebande.

ARTICLE IX.

On comprendra sous ce nom de marchandises de contrebande ou defendues, les armes, canons, boulets, arquebuses, mousquets, mortiers, bombes, petards, grenades, saucisses, cercles poisses, affuts, fourchettes,

9

f2

66

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

What goods shall not be deemed contraband.

musquet rests, bandoleers, cannon powder, matches, saltpetre, sulphur, bullets, pikes, sabres, swords, morions, helmets, cuirasses, halberds, javelins, pistols and their holsters, belts, bayonets, horses with their harness, and all other like kinds of arms and instruments of war for the use of troops.
ARTICLE X.
These which follow shall not be reckoned in the number of prohibited goods; that is to say: All sorts of cloths, and all other manufactures of wool, flax, silk, cotton or any other materials, all kinds of wearing apparel, together with the things of which they are commonly made, gold, silver coined or uncoined, brass, iron, lead, copper, latten, coals, wheat, barley, and all sorts of corn or pulse, tobacco, all kinds of spices, salted and smoked flesh, salted fish, cheese, butter, beer, oyl, wines, sugar, all sorts of salt and provisions which serve for the nourishment and sustenance of man, all kinds of coton, hemp, flax, tar, pitch, ropes, cables, sails, sail-cloth, anchors, and any parts of anchors, ship-masts, planks, boards, beams, and all sorts of trees and other things proper for building or repairing ships; nor shall any goods be considered as contraband, which have not been worked into the form of any instrument or thing for the purpose of war by land or by sea, much less such as have been prepared or wrought up for any other use : all which shall be reckoned free goods, as likewise all others which are not comprehended and particularly mentioned in the foregoing article; so that they shall not by any pretended interpretation be comprehended among prohibited or contraband goods; on the contrary, they may be freely transported by the subjects of the King and of the United States, even to places belonging to an enemy, such places only excepted as are besieged, blocked or invested, and those places only shall be considered as such, which are nearly surrounded by one of the belligerent powers.

In case of war, ships and vessels to be furnished with sea-
letters, and cer-.
tificates.

ARTICLE XL
In order to avoid and prevent on both sides all disputes and discord, it is agreed, that in case one of the parties shall be engaged in a war, the ships and vessels belonging to the subjects or inhabitants of the other shall be furnished with sea-letters or passports, expressing the name, property and port of the vessel, and also the name and place of abode of the master or commander of the said vessel, in order that it may thereby appear that the said vessel really and truly belongs to the subjects of the one or the other party. These passports, which shall be drawn up in good and due form, shall be renewed every time the vessel returns home in the course of a year. It is also agreed, that the said vessels when loaded shall be provided not only with sea-letters, but also with certificates containing a particular account of the cargo, the place from which the vessel sailed, and that of her destination, in order that it may be known whether they carry any of the prohibited or contraband merchandizes, mentioned in the 9th article of the present treaty; which certificates shall be made out by the officers of the place from which the vessel shall depart.

ARTICLE XII. Although the vessels of the one and of the other party may navigate freely and with all safety, as is explained in the 7th article, they shall nevertheless be bound at all times when required, to exhibit as well on

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

67

bandoulieres, poudre a canon, meches, salpetre, souffre, balles, piques, sabres, epees, morions, casques, cuirasses, halbardes, javelines, pistolets et leurs fourreaux, baudriers, bayonettes, chevaux avec leurs harnois, et tous autres semblables genres d'armes et d'instruments de guerre servant a 1'usage des troupes.
ARTICLE X. On ne mettra point au nombre des marchandises defendues celles qui suivent, sgavoir, toutes sortes de draps, et tous autres ouvrages de manufactures de laine, de lin, de soye, de cotton et de toute autre matiere, tout genre d'habillement avec les choses qui servent ordinairement a les faire; Or, argent monnoye ou nom monnoye, etaim, fer, plomb, cuivre, laiton, charbon a fourneau, bled, orge, et toute autre sorte de grains et de legumes, la nicotiane, vulgairement appellee tabac, toutes sortes d'aromates, chairs salees et fumees, poissons sales, fromage et beurre, bierre, huile, vins, sucres, toutes sortes de sels et de provisions servant a la nourriture et a la subsistance des hommes; tous genres de coton, chanvre, lin, poix, tant liquide que seche, cordages, cables, voiles, toiles, propres a faire des voiles, ancres et parties d'ancres quelles qu'elles puissent etre, mats de navire, planches, madriers, poutres et toute sorte d'arbres, et toutes autres choses necessaires pour construire ou pour radouber les vaisseaux. On ne regardera pas non plus comme marchandises de contrebande, celles qui n'auront pas pris la forme de quelque instrument ou attirail, servant a 1'usage de la guerre sur terre ou sur mer; encore moins celles qui sont preparees ou travaillees pour tout autre usage. Toutes ces choses seront censees marchandises libres, de meme que toutes cedes qui ne sont point comprises et specialement designees dans Particle precedent, de sorte qu'elles ne pourront sous aucune interpretation pretendue d'icelles, etre comprises sous les effets prohibes, ou de contrebande; au contraire elles pourront etre librement transportees par les sujets du Roi et des Etats Unis, meme dans les lieux ennemis, excepte seulement dans les places assiegees, bloquees ou investies; et pour telles, seront tenues uniquement les places entourees de pres par quelqu'une des puissances belligerantes.
ARTICLE XL Afin d'ecarter et de prevenir de part et d'autre toutes sortes de discussions et de discorde, il a ete convenu que dans le cas ou 1'une des deux parties se trouveroit engagee dans une guerre, les vaisseaux et batimens appertenants aux sujets ou habitans de 1'autre devront etre munis de lettres de mer ou passeports, exprimant le nom, la propriete et le port du navire, ainsi que le nom et la demeure du maitre ou commandant du dit vaisseau afin qu'il apparoisse par la., que le dit vaisseau appartient reellement et veritablement aux sujets de I'une ou de 1'autre partie. Ces passeports qui seront dresses et expedies en due et bonne forme, devront egalement etre renouvelles toutes les fois que le vaisseau revient chez lui dans le cours de 1'an. Il est encore convenu que ces dits vaisseaux charges devront etre pourvus non seulement de lettres de mer, mais aussi de certificats nontenant les details de la cargaison, le lieu d'ou le vaisseau est parti et celui de sa destination, afin que Pon puisse connoitre s'ils ne portent aucune des marchandises defendues ou de contrebande specifiees dans Particle 9 du present traite, lesquels certificats seront egalement expedies par les officiers du lieu d'ou le vaisseau sortira.
ARTICLE XII. Quoique les vaisseaux de I'une et de 1'autre partie pourront naviguer librement et avec toute surete comme il est explique a Particle 7, ils seront neanmoins tenus toutes les fois qu'on Pexigera, d'exhiber tant en

68

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

Vessels if required shall exhibit their sealetters, and certificates. If no contraband goods, may pass.

the high sea as in port, their passports and certificates above mentioned. And not having contraband merchandize on board for an enemy's port, they may freely and without hindrance pursue their voyage to the place of their destination. Nevertheless, the exhibition of papers shall not be demanded of merchant-ships under the convoy of vessels of war, but credit shall be given to the word of the officer commanding the convoy.

Mode of proceeding in case contraband goods are discovered.

ARTICLE XIII. If on producing the said certificates, it be discovered that the vessel carries some of the goods which are declared to be prohibited or contraband, and which are consigned to an enemy's port, it shall not however be lawful to break up the hatches of such ships, nor to open any chest, coffers, packs, casks or vessels, nor to remove or displace the smallest part of the merchandizes, until the cargo has been landed in the presence of officers appointed for the purpose, and until an inventory thereof has been taken; nor shall it be lawful to sell, exchange or alienate the cargo or any part thereof, until legal process shall have been had against the prohibited merchandizes, and sentence shall have passed declaring them liable to confiscation, saving nevertheless as well the ships themselves, as the other merchandizes which shall have been found therein, which by virtue of this present treaty are to be esteemed free, and which are not to be detained on pretence of their having been loaded with prohibited merchandize, and much less confiscated as lawful prize. And in case the contraband merchandize be only a part of the cargo, and the master of the vessel agrees, consents and offers to deliver them to the vessel that has discovered them, in that case the latter, after receiving the merchandizes which are good prize, shall immediately let the vessel go, and shall not by any means hinder her from pursuing her voyage to the place of her destination. When a vessel is taken and brought into any of the ports of the contracting parties, if upon examination she be found to be loaded only with merchandizes declared to be free, the owner or he who has made the prize, shall be bound to pay all costs and damages to the master of the vessel unjustly detained.

Goods found in an enemy's ship liable to be confiscated unless put on board before declaration of war, or within six months after.

ARTICLE XIV. It is likewise agreed that whatever shall be found to be laden by the subjects of either of the two contracting parties, on a ship belonging to the enemies of the other party, the whole effects, although not of the number of those declared contraband, shall be confiscated as if they belonged to the enemy, excepting nevertheless such goods and merchandizes as were put on board before the declaration of war, and even six months after the declaration, after which term none shall be presumed to be ignorant of it, which merchandizes shall not in any manner be subject to confiscation, but shall be faithfully and specifically delivered to the owners, who shall claim or cause them to be claimed before confiscation and sale, as also their proceeds, if the claim be made within eight months, and could not be made sooner after the sale, which is to be public: provided nevertheless, that if the said merchandizes be contraband, it shall not be in any wise lawful to carry them afterwards to a port belonging to the enemy.

ARTICLE XV. And that more effectual care may be taken for the security of the two contracting parties, that they suffer no prejudice by the men of war of the other party or by privateers, all captains and commanders of ships of his Swedish Majesty and of the United States, and all their

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

69

pleine mer que dans les ports, leurs passeports et certificats cy dessus mentionnes. Et n'ayant pas charge des marchandises de contrebande pour un port ennemi, ils pourront librement et sans empechement poursuivre leur voyage vers le lieu de leur destination. Cependant on n'aura point le droit de demander 1'exhibition des papiers aux navires marchands convoyes par des vaisseaux de guerre; mais on ajoutera foi a la parole de 1'officier commandant le convoi.

ARTICLE XIII. Si en produisant les dits certificats il fut decouvert que le navire porte quelques uns de ces effets qui sont declares prohibes ou de contrebande, et qui sont consignes pour un port ennemi, il ne sera cependant pas permis de rompre les ecoutilles des dits navires, ni d'ouvrir aucune caisse, coffre, malle, ballot et tonneau, ou d'en deplacer, ni d'en detourner la moindre partie des marchandises, jusqu' a ce que la cargaison ait ete mise a terre en presence des officiers preposes a cet effet, et que 1'inventaire en ait ete fait. Encore ne sera t'il pas permis de vendre, echanger ou aliener la cargaison ou quelque partie d'icelle, avant qu'on aura procede legalement au sujet des marchandises prohibees et qu'elles auront ete declarees confiscables par sentence; a la reserve neanmoins, tant des navires meme que des autres marchandises qui y aurons ete trouvees et qui en vertu du present traite doivent etre censees libres; lesquelles ne peuvent etre retenues sous pretexte qu'elles ont ete chargees avec des marchandises defendues, et encore moins etre confisquees comme une prise legitime. Et suppose que les dites marchandises de contrebande, ne faisant qu'une partie de la charge, le patron du navire agreat, consentit et offrit de les livrer au vaisseau qui les aura decouvertes; en ce cas, celui cy, apres avoir repu les marchandises, de bonne prise, sera tenu de laisser aller aussitot le batiment, et ne 1'empechera en aucune maniere de poursuivre sa route vers le lieu de sa destination. Tout navire pris et amene dans un des ports des parties contractantes, sous pretexte de contrebande, qui se trouve par la visite faite n'etre charge que de marchandises declarees libres, 1'armateur ou celui qui aura fait la prise, sera tenu de payer tons les frais et dommages au patron du navire retenu injustement.
ARTICLE XIV. On est egalement convenu que tout ce qui se trouvera charge par les sujets d'une des deux parties dans un vaisseau appartenant aux ennemis de 1'autre partie, sera confisque en entier, quoique ces effets ne soient pas au nombre de ceux declares de contrebande, comme si ces effets appartenoient a 1'ennemi meme; a 1'exception neanmoins des effets et marchandises qui auront ete chargees sur des vaisseaux ennemis avant la declaration de guerre, et meme six mois apres la declaration, apres lequel terme, 1'on ne sera pas cense d'avoir pu 1'ignorer; lesquelles marchandises ne seront en aucune maniere sujettes a confiscation, mais seront rendues en nature fidelement aux proprietaires qui les reclameront ou feront reclamer avant la confiscation etvente; comme aussi leur provenu, si la reclamation ne pouvoit se faire que dans 1'intervalle de huit mois apres la vente, laquelle doit etre publique; bien entendu neanmoins, que si les dites marchandises sont de contrebande, il ne sera nullement permis de les transporter ensuite a aucun port appartenant aux ennemis.
ARTICLE XV. Et afin de pourvoir plus efficacement a la surete des deux parties contractantes, pour qu'il ne leur soit fait aucun prejudice par les vaisseaux de guerre de 1'autre partie ou par des armateurs particuliers, il sera fait defense a tous les capitaines et commandants de vaisseaux de

70

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

Vessels of war and privateers shall do no injury to either party; if they do, to be punished and make reparation. Every person fitting out a privateer, shall,before he receives commission, give bond to answer all damages. Re-captured vessels in certain cases to be restored.
Vessels not to be detained.

subjects, shall be forbid to do any injury or damage to those of the other party, and if they act to the contrary, having been found guilty on examination by their proper judges, they shall be bound to make satisfaction for all damages and the interest thereof, and to make them good under pain and obligation of their persons and goods.
ARTICLE XVI. For this cause, every individual who is desirous of fitting out a privateer, shall before he receives letters patent, or special commission, be obliged to give bond with sufficient sureties, before a competent judge, for a sufficient sum, to answer all damages and wrongs which the owner of the privateer, his officers or others in his employ may commit during the cruise, contrary to the tenor of this treaty, and contrary to the edicts published by either party, whether by the King of Sweden or by the United States, in virtue of this same treaty, and also under the penalty of having the said letters patent and special commission revoked and made void.
ARTICLE XVII. One of the contracting parties being at war and the other remaining neuter, if it should happen that a merchant ship of the neutral power be taken by the enemy of the other party, and be afterwards retaken by a ship of war or privateer of the power at war, also ships and merchandizes of what nature soever they may be, when recovered from a pirate or sea rover, shall be brought into a port of one of the two powers, and shall be committed to the custody of the officers of the said port, that they may be restored entire to the true proprietor as soon as he shall have produced full proof of the property. Merchants, masters and owners of ships, seamen, people of all sorts, ships and vessels, and in general all merchandizes and effects of one of the allies or their subjects, shall not be subject to any embargo, nor detained in any of the countries, territories, islands, cities, towns, ports, rivers, or domains whatever, of the other ally, on account of any military expedition, or any public or private purpose whatever, by seizure, by force, or by any such manner; much less shall it be lawful for the subjects of one of the parties to seize or take any thing by force, from the subjects of the other party, without the consent of the owner. This however is not to be understood to comprehend seizures, detentions and arrests, made by order and by the authority of justice, and according to the ordinary course for debts or faults of the subject, for which process shall be had in the way of right according to the forms of justice.

Regulations in case both nations should be at war with a common enemy.

ARTICLE XVIII.
If it should happen that the two contracting parties should be engaged in a war at the same time with a common enemy, the following points shall be observed on both sides.
1st. If the ships of one of the two nations, re-taken by the privateers of the other, have not been in the power of the enemy more than twentyfour hours, they shall be restored to the original owner, on payment of one-third of the value of the ship and cargo. If, on the contrary, the vessel retaken has been more than twenty-four hours in the power of the enemy, it shall belong wholly to him who has retaken it.
2d. In case, during the interval of twenty-four hours, a vessel be retaken by a man of war of either of the two parties, it shall be restored to the original owner, on payment of a thirtieth part of the value of the vessel and cargo, and a tenth part of it has been retaken after the twenty-four hours, which sums shall be distributed as a gratification among the crew of the men of war that shall have made the recapture.

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

71

sa Majeste Suedoise et des Etats Unis, et tons leurs sujets, de faire aucun dommage ou insulte a ceux de 1'autre partie; et au cas qu'ils y contreviennent, ayant ete trouves coupables, apres I'examen fait par leurs propres juges, ils seront tenus de donner satisfaction de tout dommage et interet; et de les bonifier sous peine et obligation de leurs personnes et biens.
ARTICLE XVI. Pour cette cause chaque particulier, voulant armer en course sera oblige, avant que de recevoir les patentes ou ses commissions speciales, de donner par devant un juge competent, caution de personnes solvables, chacun solidairement pour une somme suffisante, afin de repondre de tous les dommages et torts que 1'armateur, ses officiers, ou autres etant a son service, pourroient faire en leurs courses, contre la teneur du present traite et contre les edits faits de part et d'autre en vertu du meme traite par le Roi de Suede et par les titats Unis, meme sous peine de revocation et cassation des dites patentes et commissions speciales.
ARTICLE XVII. Une des parties contractantes etant en guerre, et 1'autre restant neutre, s'il arrivoit qu' un navire marchand de la puissance neutre fut pris par 1'ennemi de 1'autre partie, et repris ensuite par un vaisseau ou par un armateur de la puissance en guerre; de meme que les navires et marchandises de quelle nature qu'elles puissent etre lors qu'elles auront ete enlevees des mains de quelque pirate ou ecumeur de mer, elles seront emmenees dans quelque port de 1'un des deux Etats, et seront remises a la garde des officiers du dit port, afin d'etre rendus en entier a leur veritable proprietaire, aussitot qu'il aura produit des preuves suffisantes de la propriete. Les marchands, patrons et proprietaires des navires, matelots, gens de toute sorte, vaisseaux et batimens et en general aucunes marchandises ni aucuns effets de chacun des allies ou de leurs sujets, ne pourront etre assujetis a aucun embargo, ni retenus dans aucun des pays, territoires, isles, villes, places, ports, rivages ou domaines quelconques de 1'autre allie, pour quelque expedition militaire, usage public ou particulier de qui que ce soit, par saisie, par force ou de quelque maniere semblable. D'autant moins sera t'il permis aux sujets de chacune des parties de prendre, ou enlever par force, quelque chose aux sujets de 1'autre partie, sans le consentement du proprietaire; ce qui neanmoins, ne doit pas s'entendre des saisies, detentions et arrets qui se feront par ordre et autorite de la justice et selon les voyes ordinaires pour dettes ou delits, au sujet desquels il devra etre procede par voye de droit selon les formes de justice.
ARTICLE XVIII. S'il arrivoit que les deux parties contractantes fussent en meme terns en guerre contre un ennemi commun, on observera de part et d'autre les points suivants. 1. Si les batimens de 1'une des deux nations repris par les armateurs de 1'autre n'ont pas ete au pouvoir de 1'ennemi, au dela de 24 heures, ils seront restitues au premier proprietaire, moyennant le payement du tiers de la valeur du batiment et de celle de la cargaison. Si au contraire le vaisseau repris a ete plus de 24 heures au pouvoir de 1'ennemi, il appartiendra en entier a celui qui 1'aura repris. 2. Dans le cas que dans 1'intervalle de 24 heures un navire est repris par un vaisseau de guerre de 1'une des deux parties, il sera rendu au premier proprietaire, moyennant qu'il paye un trentieme de la valeur du navire et de sa cargaison, et le dixieme, s'il a ete repris apres les 24 heures, les quelles sommes seront distributes en guise de gratification aux equipages des vaisseaux qui 1'auront repris.

72

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

3d. The prizes made in manner above mentioned, shall be restored to the owners, after proof made of the property, upon giving security for the part coming to him who has recovered the vessel from the hands of the enemy.
4th. The men of war and privateers of the two nations shall reciprocally be admitted with their prizes into each other's ports; but the prizes shall not be unloaded or sold there until the legality of a prize made by Swedish ships shall have been determined according to the laws and regulations established in Sweden, as also that of the prizes made by American vessels shall have been determined according to the laws and regulations established by the United States of America.
5th. Moreover, the King of Sweden and the United States of America shall be at liberty to make such regulations as they shall judge necessary respecting the conduct which their men of war and privateers respectively shall be bound to observe, with regard to vessels which they shall take and carry into the ports of the two powers.

Ships of war, and privateers, may bring prizes into ports of either party. In case of ship wreck, relief shall be afforded, and goods restored.
When vessels shall be forced by stress of weather, &c. into ports, &c. they shall be protected, and permitted to depart.

ARTICLE XIX. The ships of war of his Swedish Majesty and those of the United States, and also those which their subjects shall have armed for war, may with all freedom conduct the prizes which they shall have' made from their enemies into the ports which are open in time of war to other friendly nations; and the said prizes upon entering the said ports shall not be subject to arrest or seizure, nor shall the officers of the places take cognizance of the validity of the said prizes, which may depart and be conducted freely and with all liberty to the places pointed out in their commissions, which the captains of the said vessels shall be obliged to shew.
ARTICLE XX.
In case any vessel belonging to either of the two States, or to their subjects, shall be stranded, shipwrecked, or suffer any other damage on the coasts or under the dominion of either of the parties, all aid and assistance shall be given to the persons shipwrecked, or who may be in danger thereof, and passports shall be granted to them to secure their return to their own country. The ships and merchandizes wrecked, or their proceeds, if the effects have been sold, being claimed in a year and a day, by the owners or their attorney, shall be restored, on their paying the costs of salvage, conformable to the laws and customs of the two nations.
ARTICLE XXI.
When the subjects and inhabitants of the two parties, with their vessels, whether they be public and equipped for war, or private or employed in commerce, shall be forced by tempest, by pursuit of privateers and of enemies, or by any other urgent necessity, to retire and enter any of the rivers, bays, roads or ports of either of the two parties, they shall be received and treated with all humanity and politeness, and they shall enjoy all friendship, protection and assistance, and they shall be at liberty to supply themselves with refreshments, provisions and every thing necessary for their sustenance, for the repair of their vessels, and for continuing their voyage; provided allway that they pay a reasonable price: and they shall not in any manner be detained or hindered from sailing out of the said ports or roads, but they may retire and depart when and as they please, without any obstacle or hindrance.

ARTICLE XXII.
In order to favour commerce on both sides as much as possible, it is agreed, that in case a war should break out between the said two nations,

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

73

3. Les prises faites de la maniere susdite seront restituees aux proprietaires, apres les preuves faites de la propriete, en donnant caution pour la part qui en revient a celui qui a tire le navire des mains de I'ennemi.
4. Les vaisseaux de guerre et armateurs des deux nations seront reciproquement admis avec leurs prises, dans les ports respectifs de chacune, mais ces prises ne pourront y etre dechargees ni vendues qu'apres que la legitimite de la prise faite par des batimens Suedois aura ete decidee selon les loix et reglemens etablis en Suede; tout comme celle des prises faites par des batimens Americains, sera jugee selon les loix et reglemens determines par les Etats Unis de 1'Amerique.
5. Au surplus il sera libre au Roi de Suede, ainsi qu'aux Etats Unis de 1'Amerique de faire tels reglemens qu'ils jugeront necessaires relativement a la conduite que devront tenir leurs vaisseaux et armateurs respectifs, a 1'egard des batimens qu'ils auront pris et conduits dans les ports des deux puissances.

ARTICLE XIX. Les vaisseaux de guerre de sa Majeste Suedoise et ceux des Etats Unis, de meme que ceux que leurs sujets auront armes en guerre, pourront, en toute liberte conduire les prises qu'ils auront faites sur leurs ennemis, dans les ports ouverts en terns de guerre aux autres nations amies, sans que ces prises, entrant dans les dits ports, puissent etre arretees ou saisies, ni que les officiers des lieux puissent prendre conoissance de la validite de dites prises, les quelles pourront sortir et etre conduites franchement et en toute liberte aux lieux portes par les commissions, dont les capitaines des dits vaisseaux seront obliges de faire montre.
ARTICLE XX. Au cas que quelque vaisseau appartenant a I'un des deux etats, ou a leurs sujets aura echoue, fait naufrage ou souffert quelque autre dommage sur les cotes ou sous la domination de 1'une des deux parties, il sera donne toute aide et assistance aux personnes naufragees ou qui se trouvent en danger, et il leur sera accorde des passeports pour assurer leur retour dans leur patrie. Les navires et marchandises naufragees ou leur provenu, si ces effets eussent ete vendus, etant reclames dans 1'an et jour par les proprietaries, ou leur ayant cause, seront restitues, en payant les fraix du sauvement, conformement aux loix et coutumes des deux nations.

ARTICLE XXL Lorsque les sujets et habitants de 1'une des deux parties avec leurs vaisseaux soit publics, soit equipes en guerre, soit particuliers, ou employes au commerce, seront forces, par une tempete, par la poursuite des corsaires et des ennemis, ou par quelqu'autre necessite urgente, de se retirer et d'entrer dans quelqu'une des rivieres, bayes, rades ou ports de 1'une des deux parties, ils seront re^us et traites avec humanite et honnetete, et jouiront de toute amitie, protection et assistance, et il leur sera permis de se pourvoir de rafraichissemens, de vivres et de toutes choses necessaires pour leur subsistance, pour la reparation de leurs vaisseaux et pour continuer leur voyage, le tout moyennant un prix raisonable, et ils ne seront retenus en aucune maniere, ni empeches de sortir des dits ports ou rades, mais pourront se retirer et partir quand, et comme il leur plaira, sans aucun obstacle ni empechement.

ARTICLE XXII.

Afin de favoriser d'autant plus le commerce des deux cotes, il est

convenu que dans le cas ou la guerre surviendroit entre les deux nations

10

G

74

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

In case of war, nine months shall be allowed to citizens to sell and transport their effects.

which God forbid, the term of nine months after the declaration of war, shall be allowed to the merchants and subjects respectively on one side and the other, in order that they may withdraw with their effects and moveables, which they shall be at liberty to carry off or to sell where they please, without the least obstacle; nor shall any seize their effects, and much less their persons, during the said nine months; but on the contrary, passports which shall be valid for a time necessary for their return, shall be given them for their vessels, and the effects which they shall be willing to carry with them. And if any thing is taken from them, or if any injury is done to them by one of the parties, their people and subjects, during the term above prescribed, full and entire satisfaction shall be made to them on that account. The above-mentioned passports shall also serve as a safe conduct against all insults or prizes which privateers may attempt against their persons and effects.

Citizens of neither party shall take commissions, or letters of marque from any prince, or state, with whom the other is at war.

ARTICLE XXIII.
No subject of the King of Sweden shall take a commission or letters of marque for arming any vessel to act as a privateer against the United States of America, or any of them, or against the subjects, people or inhabitants of the said United States, or any of them, or against the property of the inhabitants of the said States, from any prince or state whatever, with whom the said United States shall be at war. Nor shall any citizen, subject or inhabitant of the said United States, or any of them, apply for or take any commission or letters of marque for arming any vessel to cruize against the subjects of his Swedish Majesty, or any of them, or their property, from any prince or state whatever with whom His said Majesty shall be at war. And if any person of either nation shall take such commissions or letters of marque, he shall be punished as a pirate.

Ships and vessels coming on the coast, or entering the ports of either party, how to be treated.

ARTICLE XXIV.
The vessels of the subjects of either of the parties coming upon any coast belonging to the other, but not willing to enter into port, or being entered into port, and not willing to unload their cargoes or to break bulk, shall not be obliged to do it, but on the contrary, shall enjoy all the franchises and exemptions which are granted by the rules subsisting with respect to that object.

How ships are to be treated when met by ships of war, or privateers.

ARTICLE XXV.
When a vessel belonging to the subjects and inhabitants of either of the parties, sailing on the high sea, shall be met by a ship of war or privateer of the other, the said ship of war or privateer, to avoid all disorder, shall remain out of cannon shot, but may always send their boat to the merchant ship, and cause two or three men to go on board of her, to whom the master or commander of the said vessel shall exhibit his passport, stating the property of the vessel; and when the said vessel shall have exhibited her passport, she shall be at liberty to continue her voyage, and it shall not be lawful to molest or search her in any manner, or to give her chace or force her to quit her intended course.

Consuls, &c. to be allowed in the ports of each nation.

ARTICLE XXVI.
The two contracting parties grant mutually the liberty of having each in the ports of the other, consuls, vice-consuls, agents and commissaries, whose functions shall be regulated by a particular agreement.

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

75

susdites, ce qu'a Dieu ne plaise, il sera accorde un terns de neuf mois apres la declaration de guerre, aux marchands et sujets respectifs de part et d'autre, pour pouvoir se retirer avec leurs effets et meubles, lesquels ils pourront transporter, ou faire vendre, ou ils voudront, sans qu'on y mette le moindre obstacle, ni qu'on puisse arreter les effets, et encore moins les personnes pendant les dits neuf mois; mais qu'au contraire on leur donnera, pour.leurs vaisseaux et effets qu'ils voudront prendre avec eux, des passeports valables pour le terns qui sera necessaire pour leur retour; mais s'il leur est enleve quelque chose, ou s'il leur a ete fait quelqu' injure, durant le terme prescrit cy dessus, par 1'une des parties, leurs peuples et sujets, il leur sera donne a cet egard pleine et entiere satisfaction. Ces passeports susmentionnes serviront egalement de saufconduits contre toutes insuites ou prises que les armateurs pourront intenter de faire contre leurs personnes et leurs effets.
ARTICLE XXIII. Aucun sujet du Roi de Suede ne prendra de commission ou lettre de marque pour armer quelque vaisseau, afin d'agir comme corsaire contre les fitats Unis de 1'Amerique ou quelques uns d'entre eux, ou contre les sujets, peuples, ou habitans d'iceux, ou contre la propriete des habitans de ces Etats, de quelque prince ou etat que ce soit, avec lequel ces dits Etats Unis seront en guerre. De meme, aucun citoyen, sujet ou habitant des dits Ltats Unis, et de quelqu'un d'entre eux, ne demandera ni n'acceptera aucune commission ou lettre de marque, afin d'armer quelque vaisseau pour courre sus aux sujets de sa Majeste Suedoise ou quelqu'un d'entre eux ou leur propriete, de quelque prince ou etat que ce soit avec qui sa dite Majeste se trouvera en guerre. Et si quelqu'un de 1'une ou de 1'autre nation prenoit de pareilles commissions ou lettres de marque, il sera puni comme pirate.

ARTICLE XXIV. Les vaisseaux des sujets ou habitans d'une des deux parties, abordant a quelque cote de la dependance de 1'autre, mais n'ayant point dessein d'entrer au port, ou y etant entre, ne desirant pas de decharger leur cargaison ou rompre leur charge, n'y seront point obliges, mais au contraire jouiront de toutes les franchises et exemtions accordees par les regiemens qui subsistent relativement a cet objet.

ARTICLE XXV. Lorsqu'un vaisseau appartenant aux sujets et habitans de 1'une des deux parties, naviguant en pleine mer, sera rencontre par un vaisseau de guerre ou armateur, de 1'autre, le dit vaisseau de guerre ou armateur, pour eviter tout desordre, se tiendra hors de la portee du canon, mais pourra toutes fois envoyer sa chaloupe abord du navire marchand et y faire entrer deux ou trois hommes, auxquels le maitre ou commandant du dit navire, montrera son passeport, qui constate la propriete du navire; et apres que le dit batiment aura exhibe le passeport, il lui sera libre de continuer son voyage; et il ne sera pas permis de le molester ni de chercher en aucune maniere a lui donner la chasse ou a le forcer de quitter la course qu'il s'etoit propose.

ARTICLE XXVI. Les deux parties contractantes se sont accorde mutuellement la faculte de tenir dans leurs ports respectifs des consuls, vice-consuls, agents et commissaires, dont les fonctions seront reglees par une convention particuliere.

76
Ratification.

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

ARTICLE XXVII.
The present treaty shall be ratified on both sides, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the space of eight months, or sooner if possible, counting from the day of the signature.

In faith whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles, and have thereto affixed their seals.

Done at Paris the third day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three.

GUSTAV PHILIP Comte de Creutz. (l . s .)

B. FRANKLIN.

(l . s .)

Time of duration.

Separate Article.
The King of Sweden and the United States of North-America, agree that the present treaty shall have its full effect for the space of fifteen years, counting from the day of the ratification, and the two contracting parties reserve to themselves the liberty of renewing it at the end of that term.

Done at Paris, the third day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three.

GUSTAV PHILIP Comte de Creutz. (l . s .)

B. FRANKLIN.

(l . s .)

King of Sweden to protect vessels and effects of citizens ofU. S.

Separate Articles.
ARTICLE I. His Swedish Majesty shall use all the means in his power to protect and defend the vessels and effects belonging to citizens or inhabitants of the United States of North America, and every of them, which shall be in the ports, havens, roads, or on the seas near the countries, islands, cities and towns of His said Majesty, and shall use his utmost endeavours to recover and restore to the right owners, all such vessels and effects which shall be taken from them within his jurisdiction.

U. S. to protect vessels, and effects of subjects of Sweden.

ARTICLE II.
In like manner, the United States of North America shall protect and defend the vessels and effects belonging to the subjects of His Swedish Majesty, which shall be in the ports, havens, or roads, or on the seas near to the countries, islands, cities and towns of the said States, and shall use their utmost efforts to recover and restore to the right owners, all such vessels and effects which shall be taken from them within their jurisdiction.

In case of war at sea, ships of war to protect and assist vessels of each nation.

ARTICLE III. If in any future war at sea, the contracting powers resolve to remain neuter, and as such, to observe the strictest neutrality, then it is agreed, that if the merchant-ships of either party should happen to be in a part of the sea where the ships of war of the same nation are not stationed, or if they are met on the high sea, without being able to have recourse to their own convoys, in that case the commander of the ships of war of the other party, if required, shall in good faith and sincerity give them all necessary assistance; and in such case, the ships of war and

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

77

ARTICLE XXVII.
Le present traite sera ratifie de part et d'autre et les ratifications seront echangees dans I'espace de huit mois, ou plustot, si faire se pent, a compter du jour de la signature.

En foi de quoi les Plenipotentiaires respectifs ont signe les articles cy dessus et y ont appose le cachet de leurs armes.

Fait a Paris le trois Avril, Z' an de Grace mil sept cent quatre vingt
trois.

GUSTAV PHILIP Comte de Creutz. (l . s.)

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.

(l . s .)

Article Separe. Le Roi de Suede et les Etats Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale sont convenus que le present traite aura son plein effet pendant 1'espace de quinze ans consecutifs, a compter du jour de sa ratification; et les deux parties contractantes se reservent la faculte de le renouveller au bout de ce terns.

Fait a Paris le trois Avril, I' an de Grace mil sept cent quatre vingt trois.

GUSTAV PHILIP Comte de Creutz. (l . s .)

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.

(l . s .)

Articles Separes. ARTICLE I.
Sa Majeste Suedoise fera usage de tous les moyens qui sont dans son pouvoir pour proteger et defendre les vaisseaux et effets, appartenans aux citoyens ou habitans des Etats Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale et a chacun d'iceux, qui seront dans les ports, havres ou rades ou dans les mers pres des pais, isles, contrees, villes et places de sa dite Majeste, et sera tous ses efforts pour recouvrer et faire restituer aux proprietaires legitimes tous les vaisseaux et effets qui leur seront pris dans 1'etendue de sa jurisdiction.
ARTICLE II. De meme les Etats Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale protegeront et defendront les vaisseaux et effets, appartenans aux sujets de sa Majeste Suedoise qui seront dans les ports, havres ou rades, ou dans les mers pres des pa'is, isles, contrees, villes et places des dits Etats, et feront tous leurs efforts pour recouvrer et faire restituer aux proprietaires legitimes, tous les vaisseaux et effets qui leur seront pris dans 1'etendue de leur jurisdiction.
ARTICLE III. Si durant une guerre maritime a venir, les deux puissances contractantes prennent le parti de rester neutres et d'observer, comme telles, la plus exacte neutrality, alors on est convenu que s'il arrivoit que les vaisseaux marchands de 1'un des puissances, se trouvassent dans un parage ou les vaisseaux de guerre de la meme nation ne fussent pas stationnes, ou bien s'ils se rencontrent en pleine mer sans pouvoir avoir recours a leurs propres convois, dans ce cas le commandant des vaisseaux de guerre de 1'autre puissance, s'il en est requis, doit de bonne
g2

78

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

frigates of either of the powers shall protect and support the merchantships of the other; provided nevertheless, that the ships claiming assistance are not engaged in any illicit commerce contrary to the principle of the neutrality.

Regulations to transact business by citizens of one party in the dominions of the other.

ARTICLE IV.
It is agreed and concluded that all merchants, captains of merchantships or other subjects of His Swedish Majesty, shall have full liberty in all places under the dominion or jurisdiction of the United States of America, to manage their own affairs, and to employ in the management of them, whomsoever they please; and they shall not be obliged to make use of any interpreter or broker, nor to pay them any reward unless they make use of them. Moreover, the masters of ships shall not be obliged, in loading or unloading their vessels, to employ labourers appointed by public authority for that purpose; but they shall be at full liberty, themselves, to load or unload their vessels, or to employ in loading or unloading them whomsoever they think proper, without paying reward under the title of salary to any other person whatever; and they shall not be obliged to turn over any kind of merchandizes to other vessels, nor to receive them on board their own, nor to wait for their lading longer than they please; and all and every of the citizens, people and inhabitants of the United States of America shall reciprocally have and enjoy the same privileges and liberties in all places, under the jurisdiction of the said realm.

No vessels to be searched unless in case of fraud. Regulations in such case.

ARTICLE V. It is agreed that when merchandizes shall have been put on board the ships or vessels of either of the contracting parties, they shall not be subjected to any examination; but all examination and search must be before lading, and the prohibited merchandizes must be stopped on the spot before they are embarked, unless there is full evidence or proof of fraudulent practice on the part of the owner of the ship, or of him who has the command of her; in which case, only he shall be responsible and subject to the laws of the country in which he may be. In all other cases, neither the subjects of either of the contracting parties, who shall be with their vessels in the ports of the other, nor their merchandizes, shall be seized or molested on account of contraband goods, which they shall have wanted to take on board, nor shall any kind of embargo be laid on their ships, subjects or citizens of the state whose merchandizes are declared contraband, or the exportation of which is forbidden; those only who shall have sold or intended to sell or alienate such merchandize, being liable to punishment for such contravention.

Done at Paris, the third day of April, in the Year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three.

GUSTAV PHILIP Comte de Creutz. (l . s .)

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.

(l . s .)

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

79

foi et sincerement leur preter les secours dont ils pourront avoir besoin, et en tel cas les vaisseaux de guerre et fregates de 1'une des puissances serviront de soutien et d'appui aux vaisseaux marchands de 1'autre: bien entendu cependant, que les reclamans n'auroient fait aucun commerce illicite ni contraires aux principes de la neutralite.

ARTICLE IV. Il est convenu et arrete que tous les marchands, capitaines des navires marchands ou autres sujets de sa Majeste Suedoise, auront 1'entiere liberte dans toutes les places de la domination ou jurisdiction des Etats Unis de 1'Amerique, de conduire eux-memes leurs propres affaires, et d'employer qui il leur plaira pour les conduire, et qu'ils ne seront point obliges de se servir d'aucun interprete ou courtier, ni leur payer aucun honoraire a moins qu'ils ne s'en servent. En outre, les maitres des navires ne seront point obliges, chargeant ou dechargeant leurs navires, de se servir des ouvriers qui peuvent etre etablis pour cet effet par 1'autorite publique; mais ils seront entierement libres de charger ou de decharger eux memes leurs vaisseaux et d'employer pour charger ou decharger ceux qu'ils croiront propres pour cet effet, sans payer aucuns honoraires a titre de salaire a aucune autre personne que ce soit, et ils ne pourront etre forces de verser aucune espece de marchandises dans d'autres vaisseaux ou de les recevoir a leur bord, et d'attendre pour etre charges, plus long terns qu'il ne leur plaira; et tous et un chacun des citoyens, peuples et habitans des Etats Unis de 1'Amerique auront et jouiront reciproquement des memes privileges et libertes dans toutes les places de la jurisdiction du dit royaume.

ARTICLE V. Il est convenu que lorsque les marchandises auront ete chargees sur les vaisseaux ou batimens de 1'une des deux parties contractantes, elles ne pourront plus etre assujetties a aucune visite; toute visite et recherche devant etre faite avant le chargement, et les marchandises prohibees devant etre arretees sur la plage avant de pouvoir etre embarquees, a moins qu'on ait des indices manifestes ou des preuves de versement frauduleux de la part du proprietaire du navire ou de celui qui en a le commandement. Dans ce cas seul, il en sera responsable et sourais aux loix du pais ou il se trouve. Dans aucun autre cas, ni les sujets d'une des parties contractantes, se trouveront avec leurs navires dans les ports de 1'autre, ni leurs marchandises, ne pourront etre arretes ou molestes pour cause de contrebande, qu'ils auront voulu prendre a leur bord, ni aucune espece d'embargo mis sur leurs navires; les sujets ou citoyens de 1'etat ou ses marchandises sont declarees de contrebande, ou dont la sortie est defendue, et qui neanmoins auront vendu ou voulu vendre et aliener les dites marchandises, devant etre les seuls qui seront duement punis pour une pareille contravention.

Fait a Paris le trois Avril, I' an de Grace mil sept cent quartre vingt trois.

GUSTAV PHILIP Comte de Creutz. (l . s .)

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.

(l . s.)

TREATY WITH FRANCE. Feb ru ar y 25, 1783.

797

Treaty between the Thirteen United States of North America and France. Signed at Versailles, February 25th, 1783.*

A contract between his most Christian Majesty and the thirteen United States of North America, entered into at Versailles, on the 25th of February, 1783.

Un Contrat entre Sa Majeste le Roi tres Chretien et les treize EtatsUnis de VAmerique Septentrionale, passe a Versailles le 25 Ferrier 1783.

Feb. 25, 1783.
Annulled. 1798, ch. 67. Vol. i. p. 578.

The re-established peace between the belligerent powers, the advantages of a free commerce to all parts of the globe, and the independence of the thirteen United States of North America, acknowledged and founded on a solid and honorable basis, rendered it probable that the said States would be in a condition to provide hereafter for their necessities, by means of the resources within themselves, without being compelled to implore the continuation of the succours which the king has so liberally granted during the war: But the minister plenipotentiary of the said United States to his Majesty, having represented to him the exhausted state to which they have been reduced by a long and disastrous war, his Majesty has condescended to take into consideration the request made by the aforesaid minister, in the name of the Congress of the said States, for a new advance of money to answer numerous purposes of urgent and indispensable expenses in the course of the present year; his Majesty has in consequence determined, notwithstanding the no less pressing necessities of his own, service, to grant to Congress a new pecuniary assistance, which he has fixed at the sum of six millions livres tournois, under the title of loan, and under the guaranty of the whole thirteen United States, which the minister of Congress has declared his acceptance of, with the liveliest acknowledgments, in the name of the said States.

La paix retablie entre les Puissances belligerantes, les avantages d'un commerce libre dans toutes les parties du globe et 1'independance des treize Etats-Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale, reconnue et fondee sur une base solide et honorable, promettoient de voir les dits Etats en situation de pourvoir des a present a leurs besoins par les ressources qui leur sont propres, sans etre forces d'implorer la continuation des secours que le Roi leur a si librement accordes pendant la duree de la guerre ; mais le ministre plenipotentiaire des dits Etats-Unis pres Sa Majeste, lui ayant expose 1'epuisement oil les a reduit une guerre longue et desastreuse, Sa Majeste a daigne prendre en consideration la demande faite par le ministre susdit au nom du Congres des dits Etats, d'une nouvelle avance d'argent pour subvenir a, une multitude d'objets de depenses urgentes et indispensables dans le cours de la presente annee; Sa Majeste s'est determinee en consequence, malgre les besoins non moins pressants de son propre service, a accorder au Congres une nouvelle assistance pecuniairequ'elle a fixee a la somme de six millions de livres tournois, a titre de pret et sous la garantie solidaire des treize Etats-Unis, ce que le ministre du Congres a declare accepter avec la plus vive reconnoissance au nom des dits Etats.

Preamble.
New pecuniary assistance granted to Congress as a loan.

* This Treaty was ratified by the Old Congress on the 31st of October, 1783, and by the King of France
on the 21st of December, 1783. The date of exchange of ratifications does not appear, but was probably that of the ratification by the King.

798

TREATY WITH FRANCE. Feb ru ar y 25, 1783.

Periods for the payment of the loan assigned.
Contracting parties.

And as it is necessary to the good order of his Majesty's finances, and also useful to the operations of the finances of the United States, to assign periods for payment of the six millions livres in question, and to regulate the conditions and terms of reimbursement which should be made at his Majesty's royal treasury at Paris, after the manner of what has been stipulated for the preceding advances, by a former contract of the 16th July, 1782.
We, Charles Gravier, Count de Vergennes, &c., Counsellor of the King in his councils, Commander of his orders, chief of the royal council of finances, Counsellor of State, &c., Minister and Secretary of State, and of his commands and finances, invested with full powers by his Majesty, given to us for the purpose of these presents : --
And we, Benjamin Franklin, minister and plenipotentiary of the United States of North America, likewise invested with full powers by the Congress of said States for the same purpose of these presents, after having compared and duly communicated to each other' our respective powers, have agreed on the following articles: --

Et comme il est necessaire au bon ordre des finances de Sa Majesty et meme utile aux operations de la finance des Etats-Unis, d'assigner les epoques de payment des six millions de livres dont il s'agit et de regler les conditions et les termes du remboursement qui doit en etre fait au tresor royal de Sa Majeste a Paris, a 1'exemple de ce qui a ete stipule pour les precedentes avances, par un premier contrat du 16 Juillet, 1782.
Nous, Charles Gravier, Comte de Vergennes, &ca., Conseiller du Roi en tous ses conseils, Commandeur de ses ordres, Chef du Conseil Royal des Finances, Conseiller d'Etat et d'Epee, Ministre et Secretaire d'Etat et des ses Commandemens et Finances, muni des pleins pou-
voirs de Sa Majeste a nous donnes a 1'effet des presentes.
Et nous, Benjamin Franklin, Ministre Plenipotentiaire des EtatsUnis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale, pareillement muni des pouvoirs du Congres des dits Etats au meme effet des presentes, apres en avoir confere et nous etre diiement communique nos pouvoirs respectifs,
avons arrete les articles qui suivent.

Art ic le I.

Arti cle Per.

Money to be paid in twelve monthly payments, and upon what promise.
Advances already made to be deducted from first payments.

The payment of the six millions livres, French money above mentioned, shall be made from the funds of the royal treasury, in proportions of five hundred thousand livres during each of the twelve months of the present year, under the acknowledgments of the minister of the said United States, promising in the name of Congress, and in behalf of the thirteen United States, to reimburse and refund the said six millions livres, in ready money, at his Majesty's royal treasury, at the house of the sieur grand banker at Paris, with interest at five per cent, per annum, at periods hereafter stipulated in the third and fourth articles. The advances which his Majesty has been pleased to allow to be made on account of the six millions in question shall be deducted in the payments of the first month of this year.

Le payement de six millions de livres argent de France enoncees cidessus, sera fait des fonds du tresor royal, a raison de cinq cens mille livres par chacun des douze mois de la presente annee, sur les reconnoissances du ministre des dits EtatsUnis, portant promesse au nom du Congres et solidairement pour les treize Etats-Unis, de faire rembourser et restituer en argent coraptant au tresor royal de Sa Majeste, au domicile du S. grand banquier a Paris, la dite somme de six millions de livres, avec les interSts a cinq pour cent 1'an, aux epoques stipulees par les articles trois et quatre ci-apres ; les avances que Sa Majeste a bien voulu promettre qui soient faites a compte des six millions dont il s'agit, seront imputees sur les payemens des premiers mois de cette annee.

TREATY WITH FRANCE. Feb ru ar y 25, 1783.

799 

Arti cle II.

Art ic le 2e.

For better understanding the fixing of periods for the reimbursement of the six millions at the royal treasury, and to prevent all ambiguity on this head, it has been found proper to recapitulate here the amount of the preceding aids granted by the king to the United States, and to distinguish them according to their different classes. The first is composed of funds lent successively by his Majesty, amounting in the whole to the sum of eighteen millions livres, reimbursable in specie at the royal treasury in twelve equal portions of a million five hundred thousand livres each, besides the interest, and in twelve years, to commence from the third year after the date of the peace, the interest, beginning to reckon at the date of the peace, to be discharged annually, shall diminish in proportion to the reimbursement of the capital, the last payment of which shall expire in the year 1798.
The second class comprehends the loan of five millions Dutch florins, amounting, by a moderate valuation, to ten millions livres tournois, the said loan made in Holland, in 1781, for the service of the United States of North America, under the engagement of the king to refund the capital with interest, at four per cent, per annum, at the general counter of the states-general of the United Provinces of the Netherlands, in ten equal portions, reckoning from the sixth year of the date of the said loan, and under the like engagement on the part of the minister of Congress, and in behalf of the thirteen United States, to reimburse the ten millions of said loan in ready money at the royal treasury, with interest, at four per cent, per annum, in ten equal portions of a million each, and in ten periods from year to year, the first of which shall take place in the month of November, 1787, and the last in the same month, 1796. The whole conformable to the conditions expressed in the contract of the 16th July, 1782.
In the third class are comprehended the aids and subsidies fur-

Pour 1'intelligence de la fixation des termes de remboursement des six millions au tresor royal, et pour prevenir toute ambiguite a ce sujet, il a ete trouve convenable de recapitulei' ici le montant des precedens secours accordes par le Roi aux Etats-Unis, et de les distinguer suivant leurs differentes classes ; la premiere est composee des fonds successivement pretes par Sa Majeste, montans ensemble a la somme de dix huit millions de livres, remboursables en especes au tresor royal en douze parties egales de quinze cens mille livres chacune, outre les interets, et en douze annees a commencer seulement de la troisieme apres 1'epoque de la paix; les interets commentjant a courir de 1'epoque de la paix pour etre acquittes chaque annee, doivent diminuer a mesure et en proportion du remboursement des capitaux, dont le dernier terme echerra dans 1'annee 1798.
La seconde classe comprend 1'emprunt de cinq millions de florins de Hollande, montant par evaluation moderee a dix millions de livres tournois, le dit emprunt fait en Hollande en 1781 pour le service des Etats-Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale, sous 1'engagement du Roi d'en restituer le capital avec les interets a 4 pour cent 1'an, au comptoir general des Etats Generaux des Provinces-Unies des Pays-Bas, en dix parties egales a compter de la sixieme annee de la datte du dit emprunt ; et sous pared engagement de la part du Ministre du Congres et solidairement pour les treize Etats-Unis, de faire le remboursement des dix millions du dit emprunt, en argent comptant au tresor royal, avec les interets a 4 pour cent par an, en dix parties egales d'un million chacune et en dix termes d'annee en annee dont le premier echerra au mois de Novembre 1787, et le dernier dans le meme mois de 1'annee 1796. Le tout conformement aux conditions exprimees au contrat du 16 Juillet 1782.
Dans la troisieme classe sont compris les secours et subsides fournis

Indebtedness to France divided into three classes.
First class; when to be repaid with interest. Second class;
when to be repaid and at what rate of interest.
Third class.

800

TREATY WITH FRANCE. Feb rua ry 25, 1783.

Third class.
Vol. viii pp. 6, 12.
Gratuitous gift confirmed, in case, &c.

nished to the Congress of the United States, under the title of gratuitous assistance, from the pure generosity of the king, three millions of which were granted before the treaty of February, 1778, and six millions in 1781; which aids and subsidies amount in the whole to nine millions livres tournois. His Majesty here confirms, in case of need, the gratuitous gift to the Con-
gress of the said thirteen United States.

au Congres des Etats-Unis, a titre d'assistance gratuite de la pure generosity du Roi, dont trois millions accordes anterieurement au traite du mois de Fevrier 1778, et six millions en 1781, desquels secours et subsides montans ensemble a neuf millions de livres tournois, Sa Majeste confirme ici en tant que de besoin, le don gratuit au Congres desdt8. treize Etats-Unis.

Art ic le III.

Art ic le 3.

New loan, when and how to be repaid, and at
what rate of interest.

The new loan of six millions livres tournois, the subject of the present contract, shall be refunded and reimbursed in ready money at his Majesty's royal treasury, in six equal portions of a million each, with interest at five per cent, per annum, and in six periods, the first of which shall take place in the year 1797, and so on, from year to year, until 1802, when the last reimbursement shall be completed.

Le nouveau pret de six millions de livres tournois qui fait la matiere du present contrat, sera restitue et rembourse en argent comptant au tresor royal de Sa Majeste, en six parties egales d'un million chacune avec les interets a cinq pour cent par an, et en six termes dont le premier echerra en Pannee 1797,etainsi d'annee en annee jusqu'en 1802, que le dei remboursement sera effectue.

Art ic le IV.

Art ic le 4.

Interest when to begin to run,
and to be paid annually in Paris.

The interest of five per cent, per annum, of the capital of the six millions mentioned in the preceding article, shall begin to be reckoned from the first of January, of the year 1784, and shall be paid in ready money at his Majesty's royal treasury at Paris on the same day of each year, the first of which shall take place the first of January. 1785, and so on, from year to year, until the definitive reimbursement of the capital; his Majesty being pleased, by a new act of generosity, to present and remit to the thirteen United States the partial interest of the present year, which the underwritten minister of Congress has declared to accept with acknowledgment in the name of the said United States.

Les intdrets a cinq pour cent 1'an, du capital de six millions enonce en Particle ci-dessus, commenceront a courir du premier Janvier de 1'annee 1784, et seront payes comptant au tresor royal de Sa Majeste a Paris, au meme jour de chacune annee dont la premiere echerra le premier Janvier 1785, et ainsi d'annee en annee jusqu'au remboursement definitif du capital, Sa Majeste voulant bien par un nouvel acte de genero'ite, faire don et remise aux treize Etats-Unis, des interets partiels de la presente annee, ce que le ministre soussigne du Congres a declare accepter avec reconnoissance, au nom des dits Etats-Unis.

Art ic le V.

Art ic le 5.

Interest pay- The interest of the capital of the Les interets du capital de six mil-

able to diminish as the payments six millions shall diminish in pro- lions diminueront dans la proportion

are made.

portion to the reimbursements at the des remboursemens aux epoques

periods fixed in the preceding arti- fixees en Particle ci-dessus ; le Con-

TREATY WITH FRANCE. Feb ru ar y 25, 1783.

801

cle; Congress and the United States gres et les Etats-Unis se reservent

reserving, however, the liberty of neanmoins la faculte d'accelerer leur freeing themselves by anticipated liberation par des remboursemens ft.

payments, should the state of their anticipes, si 1'etat de leur finance

finances admit.

pouvoit le leur permettre.

Arti cle VI.

Art ic le 6e.

The contracting parties will reciprocally guaranty the faithful observation of the foregoina; articles, the ratifications of which shall be exchanged in the space of nine months from the date of this present contract, or sooner if possible.
In faith whereof, we, the ministers plenipotentiaries of his Majesty and the Congress of the thirteen United States of North America, in virtue of our respective full powers, have signed the present contract, and thereunto affixed the seal of our arms.
Done at Versailles, the twentyfifth day of February, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three. GRAVIER DE VERGENNES,
[l . s .] B. FRANKLIN,
[L. 8.]

Les parties contractantes se garantissent reciproquement fobservation fidele des articles ci-dessus, dont les ratifications seront echangees dans 1'espace de neuf mois, ou plutot s'il est possible, a compter de la datte du present contrat.
En foi de quoi nous, ministres
plenipotentiaires de Sa Majeste et du Congres des treize Etats-Unis de 1'Amerique Septentrionale, en vertu de nos plein-pouvoirs respectifs, avons signe le present contrat et y avons fait apposer le cachet de nos armes.
Fait a Versailles le vingt-cinquieme jour du mois de Fevrier mil sept cent quatre-vingt-trois. GRAVIER DE VERGENNES,
[l . s .] B. FRANKLIN,
[l . s.j

Ratifications, when to be exchanged.
Signature.

vo l . xvii. Tre at . -- 51

