APPENDIX I.

803

That the president and directors of the Potowmac Company he, and they are hereby, authorized and required, in the name and behalf of this company, whenever, agreeably to the terms and provisions of the aforesaid act of Virginia, entitled " An act incorporating the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company," the subscribers therein mentioned and referred to shall have become incorporated, to make a surrender of the charter of the Potowmac Company, to the said Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, and to convey in due form of law to the said Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, all the property, rights, and privileges, owned, possessed, and enjoyed, by the said Potowmac Company, under their said charter, to be held, used, and occupied,
by the said Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, in the same manner and to the same effect, as the said Potowmac Company now hold, possess, and occupy the same by law. And it is hereby resolved and declared, that, upon the completion of the said surrender and conveyance by the said president and directors, to be evidenced by deed or deeds, in the name of this company, under the hands of the said president and directors, or a majority of them, and the corporate seal of this company, the said charter shall be, and hereby is, effectually surrendered, and all the said property, rights, and privileges, shall be, and hereby are, effectually conveyed to the said Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, according to the tenor and effect, true intent and meaning, of the said act and acts so incorporating the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, as aforesaid.
In testimony whereof, as the corporate act of the Potowmac Company, &c.

Surrender of charter by the
Potowmac Company.

Office of the Potowmac Company,
Geo rg eto wn , 16th May, 1825.
I he reb y certify the foregoing to be a true and faithful extract from the records of the proceedings of the Potowmac Company.
Ro bert Bar na rd , Treasurer and Clerk, Potowmac Company.

Extracts from the Charter of the Potowmac Company, granted November, 1784.
Sec . 4. And be it enacted, That the said president and directors, so elected, and their successors, or a majority of them assembled, shall have full power and authority to agree with any person or persons, on behalf of the said company, to cut such canals, and erect such locks, and perform such other works as they may judge necessary, for opening, improving, and extending the navigation of the said river, above tide water, to the highest part of the North Branch, to which navigation can be extended, and carrying on the same from place to place, and from time to time, and upon such terms, and in such manner, as they shall think fit; and out of the money arising from the subscriptions and the tolls, and other aids hereinafter given, to pay for the same; and to repair and keep in order the said canals, locks, and other works, necessary thereto.
Sec . 11. And whereas it is necessary for the making of the said canal, locks, and other works, that a provision should be made for condemning a quantity of land for the purpose: Be it enacted, That it shall and may be lawful for the said president and directors, or a majority of them, to agree with the owners of any land through which the said canal is intended to pass, for the purchase thereof; and in case of disagreement, or in case the owner thereof shall be a femme covert, under age, non-compos, or out of the state, on application to any two justices of the county in which such land shall lie, the said justices shall issue their warrant, under their hands, to the sheriff of their county, to summon a jury of twenty-four inhabitants of their county, of property and reputation, not related to the parties, nor in any manner interested, to meet on the land to be valued, at a day to be expressed in the warrant, not less than ten, nor more than twenty days thereafter, and the sheriff, upon receiving the said warrant, shall forthwith summon the said jury; and when met, shall administer an oath, or affirmation, to every juryman that shall appear, that he will faithfully, justly, and impartially, value the land, (not exceeding in any case the width of two hundred feet,) and all damages the owner thereof shall sustain, by the cutting the canal through such land,

Nov., 1784.
Charter of the Potowmac Company.

804

APPENDIX I.
according to the best of his skill and judgment: and that in such valuation he will not spare any person for favour or affection, nor any person grieve for hatred, malice, or ill-will; and the inquisition thereupon taken shall be signed by the sheriff, and some twelve or more of the jury, and returned by the sheriff to the clerk of his county, to be by him recorded. And upon every such valuation, the jury is hereby directed to describe and ascertain the bounds of the land by them valued, and their valuation shall be conclusive on all persons, and shall be paid by the said president and directors to the owner of the and, or his legal representatives ; and on payment thereof, the said company shall be seised infee of such land, as if conveyed by the owner to them and their successors by legal conveyance.
Sec . 12. And be it enacted, That the said president and directors, or a majority of them, are hereby authorized to agree with the proprietor, for the purchase of a quantity of land, at or near such of the places of receipt of tolls aforesaid, for the purpose of erecting necessary buildings; and in case of disagreement, or any of the disabilities aforesaid, or the proprietor being out of the state, then such land may be valued, condemned, and paid for as aforesaid, for the purpose aforesaid; and the said company shall, upon the payment of the valuation of the said land, be seized thereof in fee simple, as aforesaid.
Sec . 13. And whereas some of the places through which it may be necessary to conduct the said canals may be convenient for erecting mills, forges, or other water-works, and the persons possessors of such situation may design to improve the same ; and it is the intention of this act not to interfere with private property, but for the purpose of improving and perfecting the said navigation--Be it enacted, That the water, or any part thereof, conveyed through any canal or cut made by the said company, shall not be used for any purpose but navigation, unless the consent of the proprietors of the land, through which the same shall be led, be first had.

March 8, 1826.
Act of Maryland.

Extracts from the act of the state of Maryland, for the promotion of internal improvement, passed March 8, 1826.
Sec . 19. Andbe it enacted, That the treasurer of the Western Shore be, and he is hereby, authorized and required, for and on behalf of the state, to subscribe to the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company for stock to the whole amount of the stock of the Potowmac Company owned by the state, and of the debt due to the state by the said Potowmac Company, and to pay for the same in the certificates of the stock of the Potowmac Company, and in the evidences of the debt due to the state, certified in the manner specified in the charter of the said Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company; and also to subscribe for five thousand shares of the stock of the said company, payable, agreeably to the terms of the charter, in the legal currency of the United States.
Sec . 20. And be it enacted, That the treasurer of the Western Shore be, and he is hereby, instructed and required, in like manner, to subscribe for five thousand shares in the Maryland Canal Company hereby incorporated.
Sec . 21. And be it enacted, That the sum of two hundred thousand dollars shall be, and the same is hereby, appropriated, or such part thereof as may be necessary, to drain, embank, and render dry and arable, the low lands on the margins of such rivers and creeks of the Eastern Shore of this state as the Board of Public Works may think proper and recommend, and to complete and carry into effect such plans for opening and improving the navigation of the Pokomoke, Manokin, Wicomico, Great Choptank, Chester, Elk, and North East rivers, as the Board of Public Works may devise, recommend, and contract for, on behalf of the state of Maryland: Provided, That, before any part of the aforesaid subscriptions, except so much as is payable in the stock and debt of the Potomac Company, shall be made, or any part of the
sum herein appropriated to execute the improvements contemplated by this act to be made on the low lands situated on the margins of the aforesaid
rivers and creeks, or to execute the improvements of the Pokomoke, Manokin, Wicomico, Great Choptank, Chester, Elk, and North East rivers, be expended, the Congress of the United States shall, by law, authorize a subscription for not less than ten thousand shares of the capital stock of the eastern section of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, and shall enact a law expressly securing

TREATY WITH THE SIX NATIONS. 1784.

15

afforded to any who are at present our enemies, by which they might escape the punishment they deserve.

In wi tn ess whereof, the Parties have hereunto interchangeably sett their Hands and Seals at Fort-Pitt, September seventeenth, Anno Domini one thousand seven hundred and seventy-eight.

Andrew Lewis, Thomas Lewis, White Eyes,

The Pipe, John Kill Buck.

IN PRESENCE OF
Lachn. Mdntosh, B. General, commander the western department. Daniel Brodhead, Col. 8th Pennsylvania regiment. W. Crawford, Col. John Campbell. John Stephenson. Jno. Gibson, Col. 13th Virginia regiment. A. Graham, Brigade Major. Lachn. M'Intosh, jun. Major Brigade. Benjamin Mills. Joseph L. Finley, Capt. 8th Pennsylvania regiment. John Finley, Capt. 8th Pennsylvania regiment.
To the Indian names are subjoined a mark and seal.

*
ARTICLES

Concluded at Fort Stanwix, on the twenty-second day of October, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-four, between Oliver Wolcott, Richard Butler, and Arthur Lee, Commissioners Plenipotentiary from the United States, in Congress assembled, on the one Part, and the Sachems and Warriors of the Six Nations, on the other.

Oct. 22, 1784.

The United States of America give peace to the Senecas, Mohawks, Onondagas and Cayugas, and receive them into their protection upon the following conditions:
ARTICLE I.
Six hostages shall be immediately delivered to the commissioners by the said nations, to remain in possession of the United States, till all the prisoners, white and black, which were taken by the said Senecas, Mohawks, Onondagas and Cayugas, or by any of them, in the late war, from among the people of the United States, shall be delivered up.

Hostages to bo given till prisoners are delivered up.

ARTICLE II.
The Oneida and Tuscarora nations shall be secured in the possession of the lands on which they are settled.

Possession of lands secured.

ARTICLE III.
A line shall be drawn, beginning at the mouth of a creek about four miles east of Niagara, called Oyonwayea, or Johnston's Landing-Place, upon the lake named by the Indians Oswego, and by us Ontario; from thence southerly in a direction always four miles east of the carryingpath, between Lake Erie and Ontario, to the mouth of Tehoseroron or Buffaloe Creek on Lake Erie; thence south to the north boundary of the state of Pennsylvania; thence west to the end of the said north boundary; thence south along the west boundary of the said state, to the river Ohio; the said line from the mouth of the Oyonwayea to the Ohio, shall be the western boundary of the lands of the Six Nations, so that the Six Nations shall and do yield to the United States, all

Boundaries.

16

TREATY WITH THE WYANDOTS, ETC. 1785.

claims to the country west of the said boundary, and then they shall be secured in the peaceful possession of the lands they inhabit east and north of the same, reserving only six miles square round the fort of Oswego, to the United States, for the support of the same.

Goods given to
the Indians.

ARTICLE IV.
The Commissioners of the United States, in consideration of the present circumstances of the Six Nations, and in execution of the humane and liberal views of the United States upon the signing of the above articles, will order goods to be delivered to the said Six Nations for their use and comfort.

Oliver Wolcott, Richard Butler, Arthur Lee.
Mohawks. Onogwendahonji, Towighnatogon.
Onondagas. Oheadarighton, Kendarindgon.
Senecas. Tayagonendagighti, Tehonwaeaghriy agi.

Oneidas. Otyadonenghti, Dagaheari.
Cayuga. Oraghgoanendagen.
Tuscarora. Ononghsawenghti, Tharondawagen.
Seneca Abeal. Kayenthoghke.

Wit ne ss es : -- Sam. Jo. Atlee, Wm. Maclay, Fras. Johnston, Pennsylvania Commissioners. Aaron Hill, Alexander Campbell, Sami. Kirkland, Miss'y. James Dean, Sami. Montgomery, Derick Lane, Capt. John Mercer, Lieut. William Pennington, Lieut. Mahlon Ford, Ensign. Hugh Peebles.
To the Indian names are subjoined a mark and seal.

ARTICLES OF A TREATY

Jan. 21,1785.
--------

Concluded at Fort M`Intosh, the twenty-first day of January, one thousand seven hundred and eightyfive, between the Commissioners Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, of the one Part, and the Sachems and Warriors of the Wiandot, Delaware, Chippawa and Ottawa Nations of the other.

The Commissioners Plenipotentiary of the United States in Congress assembled, give peace to the Wiandot, Delaware, Chippawa, and Ottawa nations of Indians, on the following conditions:

Hostages to be given till prisoners are restored.

ARTICLE I.
Three chiefs, one from among the Wiandot, and two from among the Delaware nations, shall be delivered up to the Commissioners of the United States, to be by them retained till all the prisoners, white and black, taken by the said nations, or any of them, shall be restored.

Indians ac knowledge protection of U. S.

ARTICLE II.
The said Indian nations do acknowledge themselves and all their tribes to be under the protection of the United States and of no other sovereign whatsoever

