THE
CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.

Purposes for which the Constitution was ordained and established.
Legislative powers vested in Congress.
House of Representatives.
Representatives and direct taxes to be apportioned according to respective numbers.
Census to be taken every ten years.
Representatives in Congress.

We , the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect Union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America, (a)
Art ic le 1. § 1. All legislative powers herein granted, shall be vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives.(b)
§ 2. The House of Representatives shall be composed of members chosen every second year by the people of the several States; and the electors in each State shall have the qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of the State Legislature.
No person shall be a representative who shall not have attained to the age of twenty-five years, and been seven years a citizen of the United States, and who shall not, when elected, be an inhabitant of that State in which he shall be chosen.
Representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several States which may be included within thisUnion, according to their respective numbers, which shall be determined by adding to the whole number of free persons, including those bound to service for a term of years, and excluding Indians not taxed, three fifths of all other persons. The actual enumeration shall be made within three years after the first meeting of the Congress of the United States, and within every subsequent term of ten years, in such manner as they shall by law direct. The number of representatives shah not exceed one for every thirty thousand, but each State shall have at least one representative, and until such enumeration shall be made, the state of New Hampshire shall be entitled to choose three, Massachusetts eight, Rhode Island and Providence Plantations one, Connecticut five, New York six, New Jersey four,

(a) Martin, heir at law of Fairfax, v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304; 3 Cond. Rep. 575. Briscoe et al. v. the Bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, 11 Peters, 257. McCulloch v. The State of Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; 4 Cond. Rep. 466. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1. Barron v. The Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, 7 Peters, 243. Marberry v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 237; 1 Cond. Rep. 267. United Slates v. Smith, 5 Wheat. 153 ; 4 Cond. Rep. 619. Owing v. Norwood, 5 Cranch, 344; 2 Cond. Rep. 275.
(6) The object of the Constitution was to establish three great departments of government: the Legislative, the Executive, and the Judicial departments. The first was to pass laws; the second to approve and execute them ; the third to expound and enforce them. Martin, heir at law of Fairfax, v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304; 3 Cond. Rep. 575.
The Constitution unavoidably deals in general language. It did not suit the purpose of the people in framing this great charter of our liberties to provide for minute specifications of its powers, or to declare the means by which those powers were to be carried into execution. It was foreseen that that would be a perilous and difficult, if not an impracticable task. The instrument was not intended merely to provide for the exigencies of a few years, but was to endure through a long lapse of ages ; the events of which were locked up in the inscrutable purposes of Providence. It could not be foreseen what new changes and modifications of power might be made indispensable to effectuate the general objects of the charter; and restrictions and specifications which at present might seem salutary, might in the end prove the overthrow of the system itself. Hence its powers are expressed in general terms; leaving to the legislature, from time to time, to adopt its own means to effectuate legitimate objects, and to mould and remodel the exercise of its own powers as its own wisdom, and the public interests should require. Martin, &c. v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304; 3 Cond. Rep. 575.
10

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.

11

Pennsylvania eight, Delaware one, Maryland six, Virginia ten, North Carolina five, South Carolina five, and Georgia three.(a)
When vacancies happen in the representation from any State, the Executive authority thereof shall issue writs of election to fill such vacancies.
The House of Representatives shall choose their speaker and other officers; and shall have the sole power of impeachment.
§ 3. The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each State, chosen by the Legislature thereof, for six years; and each Senator shall have one vote.
Immediately after they shall be assembled, in consequence of the first election, they shall be divided as equally as may be into three classes. The seats of the Senators of the first class shall be vacated at the expiration of the second year, of the second class at the expiration of the fourth year, and of the third class at the expiration of the sixth year, so that one third may be chosen every second year; and if vacancies happen by resignation, or otherwise, during the recess of the Legislature of any State, the Executive thereof may make temporary appointments until the next meeting of the Legislature, which shall then fill such vacancies.
No person shall be a Senator who shall not have attained to the age of thirty years, and been nine years a citizen of the United States, and who shall not, when elected, be an inhabitant of that State for which he shall be chosen.
The Vice President of the United States shall be president of the Senate, but shall have no vote, unless they be equally divided.
The Senate shall choose their other officers, and also a president pro tempore, in the absence of the Vice President, or when he shall exercise the office of President of the United States.
The Senate shall have the sole power to try all impeachments. When sitting for that purpose, they shall be on oath or affirmation. When the President of the United States is tried, the Chief Justice shall preside ; and no person shall be convicted without the concurrence of two thirds of the members present.
Judgment in cases of impeachment shall not extend further than to removal from office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honour, trust or profit, under the United States; but the party convicted shall nevertheless be liable and subject to indictment, trial, judgment, and punishment according to law.
§ 4. The times, places and manner of holding elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by law make or alter such regulations, except as to the places of choosing Senators.
The Congress shall assemble at least once in every year, and such meeting shall be on the first Monday in December, unless they shall by law appoint a different day.
§ 5. Each House shall be the judge of the elections, returns, and qualifications of its own members, and a majority of each shall constitute a quorum to do business; but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day, and may be authorized to compel the attendance of absent

Vacancies in the representation, how filled.
Speaker and officers of H. R.
Impeachment. Senate, how composed. Senators, how chosen. Each Senator to have one vote. One third of the Senators to be chosen every second year.-- Vacancies during recess of the Legislature of a State. How filled.
Qualifications of Senators.
Vice President of U. S. president of Senate.
The Senate to choose their officers. President pro tempore.
The Senate to have the sole power to try impeachments. When the President of U. S. is tried, the Chief Justice shall preside.
Judgment in case ofimpeachment. Party convicted subject to indictment at law.
Times and places for holding elections. Congress may at anytime make or alter regulations made by the States, except as to the places ofchoosing Senators.
Congress to assemble once a year.
Each House

(a) South Carolina adopted the Constitution by a convention called in November, 1789. Rhode Island, by a convention held in May, 1790, assented to the Constitution. Kentucky was admitted into the Union, June 1, 1792. Vermont was admitted into the Union, March 4, 1791. Tennessee was admitted into the Union, June 1, 1796. Ohio was established as a state of the Union, by act of April 30, 1802. Louisiana was admitted into the Union, April 30, 1812. Indiana was admitted into the Union, December 11, 1816. Mississippi was admitted into the Union, December 10, 1817. Illinois was admitted into the Union, December 3, 1818. Alabama was admitted into the Union, December 14, 1819. Maine was admitted into the Union by an act of Congress, passed March 3, 1820. Missouri was admitted into the Union, March 2, 1821. Arkansas was admitted into the Union, June 15, 1836. Michigan was admitted into the Union, January 26, 1837. North Carolina became a member of the Union, before June 4, 1790. Iowa and Florida were authorized to become states of the Union, by act of March 3, 1845, chap. 48.

12

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.

to be the judge of the elections, returns, and qualifications of its members. A majority to form a quorum.
Rules of pro. ceeding.
Each House to keep a journal. Yeas and nays.
Adjournments of the Houses of Congress.
Compensation of the Senators and Representatives. Privileged from arrest, with exceptions. Not to be questioned in any other place for any speech or debate in either House.
Appointment to office of Senators or Representatives. No person holding any office under the U. S. to be a member ofeither House during his continuance in office.
Bills for raising revenue.
Bills, after having passed Congress, to be presented to the President. Proceedings when the President disapproves.
Every order, resolution, or vote, of both Houses (except on a question of adjournment) to be presented to the President of the U. S.
Powers of Congress.

members, in such manner, and under such penalties, as each House may provide.
Each House may determine the rules of its proceedings, punish its members for disorderly behaviour, and, with the concurrence of two thirds, expel a member.
Each House shall keep a journal of its proceedings, and from time to time publish the same, excepting such parts as may, in their judgment, require secrecy; and the yeas and nays of the members of either House on any question, shall, at the desire of one fifth of those present, be entered on the journal.
Neither House, during the session of Congress, shall, without the consent of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any other place than that in which the two Houses shall be sitting.
§ 6. The Senators and Representatives shall receive a compensation for their services, to be ascertained by law, and paid out of the Treasury of the United States. They shall, in all cases, except treason, felony, and breach of the peace, be privileged from arrest during their attendance at the session of their respective Houses, and in going to,
and returning from, the same; and for any speech or debate in either House, they shall not be questioned in any other place.
No Senator or Representative shall, during the time for which he was elected, be appointed to any civil office under the authority of the United States, which shall have been created, or the emoluments whereof
shall have been increased during such time; and no person holding any office under the United States, shall be a member of either House during his continuance in office.
§ 7. All bills for raising revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives; but the Senate may propose or concur with amendments as on other bills.
Every bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it become a law, be presented to the President of the United States; if he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it, with his objections, to that House in which it shall have originated, who shall enter the objections at large on their journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If after such reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass the bill, it shall be sent, together with the objections, to the other House, by which it shall likewise be reconsidered,
and if approved by two thirds of that House, it shall become a law. But in all such cases the votes of both Houses shall be determined by yeas and nays, and the names of the persons voting for and against the bill shall be entered on the journal of each House respectively. If any bill shall not be returned by the President within ten days, (Sundays excepted,) after it shall have been presented to him, the same shall be a law, in like manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress by
their adjournment prevent its return, in which case it shall not be a law.
Every order, resolution, or vote, to which the concurrence of the
Senate and House of Representatives may be necessary, (except on a question of adjournment,) shall be presented to the President of the
United States; and before the same shall take effect, shall be approved by him, or being disapproved by him, shall be re-passed by two thirds of the Senate and House of Representatives, according to the rules and limitations prescribed in the case of a bill.
§ 8. The Congress shall have power(a)

(a) Congress must possess the choice of means, and must be empowered to use any means, which are in fact conducive to the exercise of a power granted by the Constitution. United States v. Fisher, et al.; Assignees of Blight, 2 Cranch's Rep. 358; 1 Cond. Rep. 421.

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.

13

To lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises,(a) to pay the debts, and provide for the common defence and general welfare of the United States; but all duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States :(6) To borrow money on the credit of the United States: To regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian tribes :(c) To establish an uniform rule of naturalization,(d) and uniform laws
on the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United States :(e)

To lay taxes, and provide for the common defence and welfare. Duties to be uniform.
To borrow money.
To regulate commerce. Naturalization. Bankruptcies.

The powers granted to Congress are not exclusive of similar powers existing in the States, unless where the Constitution has expressly, in terms, given an exclusive power to Congress; or the exercise of a like power is prohibited to the States; or there is a direct repugnancy, or incompatibility in the exercise of it by the States. The example of the first class is to be found in the exclusive legislation delegated to Congress over places purchased by the consent of the legislature of the State in which the same shall be located for forts, arsenals, dock-yards, &c.; of the second class, of the prohibition of a State to coin money, or emit bills of credit; of the third class, the power to establish a uniform rule of naturalization, and the delegation of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. In all other cases the States retain concurrent authority with Congress. Houston v. Moore, 5Wheat. 1; 4 Cond. Rep. 589.
An act of Congress repugnant to the Constitution cannot become the law of the land. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137; 1 Cond. Rep. 267.
The mere grant of power to Congress does not imply a prohibition on the States to exercise the same power. Whenever the terms in which such a power is granted to Congress require that it should be exercised exclusively by Congress, the subject is as completely taken from the State legislatures, as if they had been expressly forbidden to act upon it. Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122; 4 Cond.
Rep. 409. (a) The power of Congress to levy and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, is co-extensive with
the territory of the Unite°d States. Loughborough v. Blake, 5 Wheat. 317; 4 Cond. Rep. 660. The power of Congress to exercise exclusive legislation, in all cases whatever, within the District of
Columbia, includes the power of taxing it. Ibid. The authority of Congress to lay and collect taxes, does not interfere with the power of the States to
tax for the support of their own governments; nor is the exercise of that power by the States, an exercise of any portion of the power that is granted to the United States. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1;
5 Cond. Rep. 562. (b) The constitutional provision that direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several States, ac-
cording to their respective numbers, to be ascertained by a census, was not intended to restrict the power°of imposing direct taxes to States only. Loughborough v. Blake, 5 Wheat. 317 ; 4 Cond. Rep.
660. (ci An act of Congress, laying an embargo for an indefinite period of time, is constitutional and valid.
The United States v. The William, 2 Hall's Am. Law Jour. 255. The power of regulating commerce extends to the regulation of navigation. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1; 5 Cond. Rep. 562. The power to regulate commerce extends to every species of commercial intercourse between the
United States and foreign nations, and among the several States. It does not stop at the external boundary of a State ; but it does not extend to a commerce which is completely internal. Ibid.
The power to regulate commerce is general, and has no limitations but such as are prescribed by the Constitution itself. This power, so far as it extends, is exclusively vested in Congress, and no part of it can be exercised by a State. Ibid.
The power of regulating commerce extends to navigation carried on by vessels employed in transporting passengers. Ibid.
All those powers which relate to merely municipal legislation, or which may be properly called internal police, are not surrendered (by the States) or restrained, and consequently in relation to those the authority of a State is complete, unqualified, and exclusive. The City of N. York v. Miln, 11 Peters,
102. The act of the legislature of New York passed February 1824, entitled, An Act concerning passengers
in vessels arriving in the port of New York," is not a regulation of commerce, but of police; and being so, it was passed in the exercise of a power which belonged to that State. Ibid.
The power to regulate commerce, includes the power to regulate navigation, as connected with the commerce with foreign nations and among the States. It does not stop at the mere boundary line of a State, nor is it confined to acts done on the waters, or in the necessary course of the navigation thereof. It extends to such acts done on the land, which interfere with, obstruct, or prevent the due exercise of the powers to regulate commerce and navigation with foreign nations, and among the States. Any offence which thus interferes with, obstructs, or prevents such commerce and navigation, though done on land, may be punished by Congress, under its general authority to make all laws necessary and proper to execute their delegated constitutional powers. The United States v. Lawrence Coombe, 12
Peters, 72. Persons are not the subjects of commerce, and not being imported goods, they do not fall within the
meaning founded upon the Constitution, of a power given to Congress, to regulate commerce, and the prohibition of the States for imposing a duty on imported goods. Ibid.; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; 5 Cond. Rep. 562.
(d) Under the Constitution of the United States, the power of naturalization is exclusively in Congress. Chirac v. Chirac, 2 Wheat. 259 ; 4 Cond. Rep. Ill ; Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1 ; 4 Cond.
Rep. 589. (e) The powers of Congress to establish uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcy throughout the
B

14

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.

To coin money. To fix the standard of weights and measures.
To punish counterfeiters.
Post-offices. To promote the progress of science and useful arts. Inferior tribunals. Piracies on the high seas. To declare war. To raise armies. Navy, &c. Government of the army and navy. Militia.
For the organization, &c. of the militia.
Exclusive Legislation over seat of governof the U. S.
Exclusive authority over places purchased with the consent of States.
To make laws for carrying into execution all powers vested in government ofU. S.
Migration or importation of persons.

To coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin, and
fix the standard of weights and measures : To provide for the punishment of counterfeiting the securities and
current coin of the United States : To establish post-offices and post-roads : To promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing, for
limited times, to authors and inventors, the exclusive right to their re-
spective writings and discoveries: To constitute tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court: To define and punish piracies and felonies committed on the high
seas, and offences against the law of nations :(a) To declare war, grant letters of marque and reprisal, and make rules
concerning captures on land and water : To raise and support armies : but no appropriation of money to that
use shall be for a longer term than two years : To provide and maintain a navy : To make rules for the government and regulation of the land and na-
val forces: To provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the
Union, suppress insurrections and repel invasions: To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia, and
for governing such part of them as may be employed in the service of the United States, reserving to the States respectively, the appointment of the officers, and the authority of training the militia according to the
discipline prescribed by Congress. (b) To exercise exclusive legislation, in all cases whatsoever, over such
district (not exceeding ten miles square) as may by cession of particular States, and the acceptance of Congress, become the seat of the government of the United States, and to exercise like authority over all places purchased by the consent of the legislature of the State in which the same shall be, for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dock-yards,
and other needful buildings. And, To make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying
into execution the foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by this Constitution in the government of the United States, or in any depart-
ment or officer thereof.(c)
§ 9. The migration or importation of such persons as any of the States now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by the Congress prior to the year one thousand eight hundred and eight;
but a tax or duty may be imposed on such importation, not exceeding
ten dollars for each person.

United States, does not exclude the right of the States to legislate on the same subject, except when the power is actually exercised by Congress, and the State laws conflict with those of Congress. Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213; 6 Cond. Rep. 523; Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122; 4 Cond. Rep. 409.
Since the adoption of the Constitution of the United States, a state has authority to pass a Bankrupt law, provided such law does not impair the obligation of contracts ; and provided there be no act of Congress in force to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy, conflicting with such law. Sturges v. Crown-

inshield, 4 Wheat. 122 ; 4 Cond. Rep'. 409.

. .

(a) The act of the 3d March, 1819, chap. 76, sec. 5, referring to the law of nations for a definition of

the crime of piracy, is a constitutional exercise of the power of Congress to define and punish that

crime. United States v. Smith, 5 Wheat. 153 ; 4 Cond. Rep. 619. See also United States v. Palmer, 3

Wheat. 610; 4 Cond. Rep. 352. (b) The act of Congress of Feb. 28, 1795, to provide for the calling out the militia to execute the
laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and repel invasions, is within the constitutional powers of Con-

gress. Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19 ; 6 Cond. Rep. 410. (c) Congress must possess the choice of means, and must be empowered to use any means which are
n fact conducive to the exercise of a power granted by the Constitution. United States v. Fisher et al., 2 Cranch, 358 ; 1 Cond. Rep. 421. Van Horne's Lessee v. Dorrance, 2 Dall. 304; Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137 ; 1 Cond. Rep. 267, 268. The United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336 ; 4 Cond. Rep. 275. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316 ; 4 Cond. Rep. 466. United States v. Tingey, 5 Peters, llo. Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204. Dugan v. The United States, 3 Wheat. 172; 4 Cond. Rep. 223. The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116 ; 2 Cond. Rep. 439. Osborn v. The Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738 ; 5 Cond. Rep. 741. Harrison v. Sterry, 5 Cranch, 289 ; 2 Cond. Rep. 260. Postmaster General v. Early,

12 Wheat. 136; 6 Cond. Rep. 480.

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.

15

The privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion the public safety may require it.(rz)
No bill of attainder or ex post facto law shall be passed.(5) No capitation, or other direct tax, shall be laid, unless in proportion to the census or enumeration herein before directed to be taken. No tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State. No preference shall be given by any regulation of commerce or revenue to the ports of one State over those of another; nor shall vessels bound to, or from, one State be obliged to enter, clear, or pay duties in another. No money shall be drawn from the treasury, but in consequence of appropriations made by law; and a regular statement and account of the receipts and expenditures of all public money shall be published from
time to time. No title of nobility shall be granted by the United States; and no
person holding any office of profit or trust under them, shall, without the consent of the Congress, accept of any present, emolument, office, or title of any kind whatever, from any king, prince, or foreign state.
§ 10. No State shall enter into any treaty, alliance, or confederation ; grant letters of marque and reprisal; coin money; emit bills of credit; make any thing but gold and silver coin a tender in payment of debts ;(e) pass any bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts, or grant any title of nobility. (d)
No State shall, without the consent of the Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws; and the net produce of all duties and imposts, laid by any State on imports or exports, shall be for the use of the treasury of the United States; and all such laws shall be subject to the revision and control of the Congress.(e) No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage, keep troops, or ships of war, in time of peace, enter into any agreement or compact with another State, or with a foreign power, or engage in war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not admit of delay.
Art . II. § 1. The executive power shall be vested in a President of the United States of America. He shall hold his office during the term of four years, and together with the Vice President, chosen for the same term, be elected as follows :

Writ of Ha. boas Corpus. Bills of attainder, or ex post facto laws.
Capitation or other direct tax.
No tax or duty on articles exported from any State.
No preference to ports of one State over another.
No money drawn from the treasury but by law. Receipts and expenditures published.
No title of nobility to be granted.
Limitation of the powers of the States.
Executive power vested in a President of the U. S. Duration of office.

(a) Ex parte Burford, 3 Cranch, 448. Ex parte Bollman, 4 Cranch, 75; 2 Cond. Rep. 33. Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38 ; 5 Cond. Rep. 225. Ex parte Tobias Watkins, 3 Peters, 193. Ex parte Milburn, 9 Peters, 704. Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19 ; 6 Cond. Rep. 410.
(&) The prohibition of the Federal Constitution of ex post facto laws extends to penal statutes only; and does not extend to cases affecting only the civil rights of individuals. Calder et al. v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386; 1 Cond. Rep. 172. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87; 2 Cond Rep. 308. Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213; 6 Cond. Rep. 523.
(c) Briscoe v. The Bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, 11 Peters, 257. Craig v. The State of Missouri, 4 Peters, 431. Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122; 4 Cond. Rep. 409. Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213 ; 6 Cond. Rep. 523. Cooper v. Telfair, 4 Dall. 14; 1 Cond. Rep. 211.
(d) If any act of the legislature is repugnant to the Constitution, it is, ipso facto, void ; and it is the duty of the court so to declare it. Vanhorne's Lessee v. Dorrance, 2 Dall. 304.
The Constitution fixes the limits to the exercise of legislative authority, and prescribes the orbit in which it must move. Whatever may be the case in other countries, yet here there can be no doubt that any act of the Legislature repugnant to the Constitution is absolutely void. Ibid. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87 ; 2 Cond. Rep. 308.
The legislature of a state can pass no ex post facto law. An ex post facto law is one which renders an act punishable, which was not punishable when it was committed. Ibid. Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1 ; 4 Cond. Rep. 589.
The invalidity of a state law, as impairing the obligation of contracts, does not depend on the extent of the change which the law effects in the contract. Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1 ; 5 Cond. Rep. 369. Briscoe v. The Bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, 11 Peters, 257. New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164 ; 2 Cond. Rep. 457. Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43 ; 3 Cond. Rep. 254. Trustees of Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518; 4 Cond. Rep. 526. The Proprietors of the Charles River Bridge v. The Proprietors of the Warren Bridge, 11 Peters, 420. Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122; 4 Cond. Rep. 409. Hawkins v. Barney's Lessee, 5 Peters, 456. Mason v. Haile, 12 Wheat. 370; 6 Cond. Rep. 535. Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank v. Smith, 6 Wheat. 131; 5 Cond. Rep. 35. Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Peters, 380. Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Peters, 627.
(e) Brown v. The state of Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; 6 Cond. Rep. 554.

16

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.

Manner of electing President and Vice President.
Electors of President and Vice President.
Qualifications of the President.
Vacancy in the office of President. How supplied.
Compensation for the services of the President.
Oath of office of the President.

Each State shall appoint, in such manner as the legislature thereof may direct, a number of electors equal to the whole number of Senators and Representatives to which the State may be entitled in the Congress ; but no Senator or Representative, or person holding an office of trust or profit under the United States, shall be appointed an elector.
The electors shall meet in their respective States, and vote by ballot for two persons, of whom one at least shall not be an inhabitant of the same State with themselves. And they shall make a list of all the persons voted for, and of the number of votes for each; which list they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the seat of the government of the United States, directed to the President of the Senate. The President of the Senate shall, in the presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the certificates, and the votes shall then be counted. The person having the greatest number of votes shall be the President, if such number be a majority of the whole number of electors appointed; and if there be more than one who have such majority, and have an equal number of votes, then the House of Representatives shall immediately choose by ballot one of them for President; and if no person have a majority, then from the five highest on the list the said House shall in like manner choose the President. But in choosing the President, the votes shah be taken by States, the representation from each State having one vote; a quorum for this purpose shall consist of a member or members from two thirds of the States, and a majority of all the States shall be necessary to a choice. In every case, after the choice of the President, the person having the greatest number of votes of the electors shall be the Vice President. But if there should remain two or more who have equal votes, the Senate shall choose from them
by ballot the Vice President.(a) The Congress may determine the time of choosing the electors, and
the day on which they shall give their votes; which day shall be the
same throughout the United States. No person except a natural born citizen, or a citizen of the United
States, at the time of the adoption of this Constitution, shall be eligible to the office of President; neither shall any person be eligible to that office who shall not have attained to the age of thirty-five years, and been fourteen years a resident within the United States.
In case of the removal of the President from office, or of his death, resignation, or inability to discharge the powers and duties of the said office, the same shall devolve on the Vice President, and the Congress may by law provide for the case of removal, death, resignation, or inability, both of the President and Vice President, declaring what officer shall then act as President, and such officer shall act accordingly until the disability be removed, or a President shall be elected.
The President shall at stated times, receive for his services, a compensation, which shall neither be increased nor diminished during the period for which he shall have been elected, and he shall not receive within that period any other emolument from the United States or any
of them. Before he enter on the execution of his office, he shall take the fol-
lowing oath or affirmation: " I do solemnly swear, (or affirm,) that I will faithfully execute the
office of President of the United States, and will, to the best of my ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United
States." § 2. The President shall be commander-in-chief of the army and

(a) By an amendment to the Constitution, a substitute for this paragraph was adopted. Amendment, Art. 12, § 1. This amendment was proposed in October 1803, and was ratified before September 1804. See the amendment, post.

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.

17

navy of the United States, and of the militia of the several States, when called into the actual service of the United States; he may require the opinion, in writing, of the principal officer in each of the executive departments, upon any subject relating to the duties of their respective offices, and he shall have power to grant reprieves and pardons for offences against the United States, except in cases of impeachment.
He shall have power, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to make treaties, provided two thirds of the Senators present concur ;(a) and he shall nominate, and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, judges of the Supreme Court, and all other officers of the United States, whose appointments are not herein otherwise provided for, and which shall be established by law. But the Congress may by law vest the appointment of such inferior officers, as they think proper, in the President alone, in the courts of law, or in the heads of depart-
ments. (b) The President shall have power to fill up all vacancies that may hap-
pen during the recess of the Senate, by granting commissions which shall expire at the end of their next session.
§ 3. He shall, from time to time, give to the Congress information of the state of the Union, and recommend to their consideration such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient. He may on extraordinary occasions, convene both Houses, or either of them; and in case of disagreement between them, with respect to the time of adjournment, he may adjourn them to such time as he shall think proper. He shall receive ambassadors and other public ministers. He shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed; and shall commission ah the
officers of the United States. § 4. The President, Vice President, and all civil officers of the
United States, shall be removed from office on impeachment for, and conviction of, treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors.
Art . III. § 1. The judicial power of the United States shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress may, from time to time, ordain and establish. The judges, both of the Supreme and inferior courts, shall hold their offices during good behaviour; and shall, at stated times, receive for their services, a compensation, which shall not be diminished during their continuance in office.(c)
§ 2. The judicial power shall extend to all cases, in law and equity, arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority; to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and consuls; to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; to controversies to which the

Powers and duties of the President.
May grant reprieves and pardons.
May make treaties, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
Appointments to office.
Vacancies during the recess of the Senate.
Give Congress information of the State of the Union.
Convene Congress on extraordinary occasions. When he may adjourn Congress.
Other powers and duties.
Removals from office by impeachment and conviction of crimes.
Judicial powers. Judges to hold office during good behaviour.
Compensation not to be diminished during continuance in office.
Extent of judicial power.

(a) The decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States on the powers and duties of the President of the United States have been the following: Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137 ; 1 Cond. Rep. 267; 1 Peters, 296 ; 12 Peters, 524. Williams v. The Suffolk Ins. Com., 13 Peters, 415.
(&) Am. Ins. Comp. v. Canter, 1 Peters, 511, 517 ; with Mr. Justice Johnson's opinion. Ex parte Duncan N. Hennen, 13 Peters, 230.
(c) The decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States on the 1st and 2d sections of the 3d article of the Constitution have been : The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts, 12 Peters, 657-72. M'Bride v. Hoey, 11 Peters, 167. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137; 1 Cond. Rep, 267. Ex parte Crane, 5 Peters, 190. Ex parte Milburn, 9 Peters, 704. Town of Pawlet v. Clark et al., 9 Cranch, 292 ; 3 Cond. Rep. 408. Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38 ; 5 Cond. Rep. 225. M`Cluny v. Silliman, .2 Wheat. 369 ; 4 Cond. Rep. 162. The United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336 ; 4 Cond. Rep. 275. United States v. Hamilton, 3 Dall. 17. Ex parte Bollman, 4 Cranch, 75; 2 Cond. Rep. 33. Ex parte Tobias Watkins, 3 Peters, 193. Cherokee Nation v. The State of Georgia, 5 Peters, 1. Cohens v. The State of Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264. Osborn v. The Bank of the United States. 9 Wheat. 738; 5 Cond. Rep. 741. The United States v. Ortega, 11 Wheat. 467 ; 6 Cond. Rep. 394. Fowler v. Lindsey et al., 3 Dall. 411. The United States v. Goodwin, 7 Cranch, 108; 2 Cond. Rep. 434.
The third article of the Constitution of the United States enables the judicial department to receive jurisdiction to the full extent of the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States, when any question respecting them shall assume such form that the judicial power is capable of acting on it. That power is capable of acting, only when the subject is submitted to it by a party who asserts his rights in a form prescribed by law. It then becomes a case.
Osborn et al. v. The Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738; 5 Cond. Rep. 741.

Vol . I.--3

b 2

18

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.

Original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.
Appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.
Trial by jury.
Treason. Conviction for treason.
Punishment of treason.
Attainder. The public acts, &c.,ofthe States to have full faith and credit. Citizens of the States entitled to equal privileges. Fugitives from justice.
Fugitives from labour.

United States shall be a party; to controversies between two or more States, between a State and citizens of another State, between citizens of different States, between citizens of the same State claiming lands under grants of different States, and between a State, or the citizens
thereof, and foreign States, citizens or subjects. In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and con-
suls, (a) and those in which a State shall be party, the Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction. (b) In all the other cases before mentioned, the Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such exceptions, and under such regulations, as the
Congress shall make.(c) The trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by
jury; and such trial shall be held in the State where the said crimes shall have been committed; but when not committed within any State, the trial shall be at such place or places as the Congress may by law
have directed. § 3. Treason against the United States, shall consist only in levying
war against them, or in adhering to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort. No person shall be convicted of treason unless on the testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act, or on confession in open
court. The Congress shall have power to declare the punishment of treason,
but no attainder of treason shall work corruption of blood, or forfeiture,
except during the life of the person attainted. Art . IV. § I. Full faith and credit shall be given in each State to the
public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every other State. And the Congress may by general laws prescribe the manner in which such acts, records, and proceedings shall be proved, and the effect thereof.(d)
§ 2. The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and
immunities of citizens in the several States. A person charged in any State with treason, felony, or other crime,
who shall flee from justice, and be found in another State, shall, on demand of the executive authority of the State from which he fled, be delivered up, to be removed to the State having jurisdiction of the
crime. No person held to service or labour in one State, under the laws
thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labour, but shall

(a) An indictment under the crimes act of 1790, chap. 9, sec. 28, for infracting the law of nations by offering violence to the person of a foreign minister, is a case, "affecting ambassadors and other public ministers, or consuls," within the second section of the third article of the Constitution of the United States. The United States v. Ortega, 11 Wheat. 467; 6 Cond. Rep. 394
(6) On the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, the following cases have been decided: Lx parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38; 5 Cond. Rep. 225. M`Cluny v. Sullivan, 2 Wheat. 369; 4 Cond. Rep. 162. The ColumbianInsuranceCompany v. Wheelwright, 7 Wheat. 534; 5 Cond. Rep. 334. United States v. Hamilton 3 Dall. 17. Ex parte Tobias Watkins, 3 Peters, 193. Ex parte Crane et al., 5 Peters 190. United States v. Ravara, 2 Dall. 297. Cherokee Nation v. The State of Georgia, 5 Peters, 1. The State of New Jersey v. The State of New York, 5 Peters, 284. Ex parte Juan Madrazzo, 7 Peters, 627. The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts, 12 Peters, 657-755. Cohens v. The State of Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264 ; 5 Cond. Rep. 90. Osborn v. The Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738 ; 5 Cond. Rep.
741. Fowler et al. v. Lindsey et al., 3 Dall. 411. (c) Upon the appellate powers of the Supreme Court, the following cases have been decided : United
States v Goodwin, 7 Cranch, 108 ; 2 Cond. Rep. 434. Wiscart v. Dauchy, 3 Dall. 321 ; 1 Cond. Rep. 144. United States v. Moore, 3 Cranch, 159; 1 Cond. Rep. 480. Osborn v. The Bank of the United States 9 Wheat. 738 ; 5 Cond. Rep. 741. Owings v. Norwood's Lessee, 5 Cranch, 344; 2 Cond. Rep. 275. Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304; 3 Cond. Rep. 575. Gordon v. Caldcleugh, 3 Cranch, 268 ; 1 Cond. Rep. 524. Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38 ; 5 Cond. Rep. 225. Inglee v. Coolidge, 2 Wheat. 363 ; 4 Cond Rep. 155. Gelston et al. v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 246; 4 Cond. Rep. 244. Nicholls et al. v. Hod-res' Ex'r 1 Peters, 562. Buel v. Van Ness, 8 Wheat. 312 ; 5 Cond. Rep. 445. Miller s. Nicholls, 4 Wheat 311 · 4 Cond. Rep. 465. Matthews v. Zane et al. 7 Wheat. 164; 5 Cond. Rep. 265. Houston v. Moore' 3 Wheat. 433 ; 4 Cond. Rep. 286. Williams v. Norris, 12 Wheat. 117 ; 6 Cond. Rep. 462. Montgomery v. Hernandez, 12 Wheat. 129; 6 Cond. Rep. 475. Gibbons v. Ogden, 6 Wheat. 448; 5 Cond. Rep 134 Weston et al. v. The City Council of Charleston, 2 Peters, 449.
(d) Mills v Duryee, 7 Cranch, 481; 2 Cond. Rep. 578. Hampton v. M'Connel, 3 Wheat. 234; 4 Cond. Rep. 243. See act of May 26, 1790, chap. 11. Act of March 27, 1804, chap. 56.

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.

19

be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labour may be due.(a)
§ 3. New States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union; but no new State shall be formed or erected within the jurisdiction of any other State; nor any State be formed by the junction of two or more States, or parts of States, without the consent of the legislatures of the States concerned, as well as of the Congress.
The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States; and nothing in this Constitution shall be so construed as to prejudice any claims of the United States, or of any particular State.
§ 4. The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a republican form of government, and shall protect each of them against invasion ; and on application of the legislature, or of the executive, (when the legislature cannot be convened,) against domestic violence.
Art . V. The Congress, whenever two thirds of both Houses shall deem it necessary, shall propose amendments to this Constitution, or, on the application of the legislatures of two thirds of the several States, shall call a convention for proposing amendments, which, in either case, shall be valid to all intents and purposes, as part of this Constitution, when ratified by the legislatures of three fourths of the several States, or by conventions in three fourths thereof, as the one or the other mode of ratification may be proposed by the Congress ; provided, that no amendment, which may be made prior to the year one thousand eight hundred and eight, shall in any manner affect the first and fourth clauses in the ninth section of the first article; and that no State, without its consent, shall be deprived of its equal suffrage in the Senate.
Art . VI. All debts contracted, and engagements entered into, before the adoption of this Constitution, shall be as valid against the United States, under this Constitution, as under the confederation.
This Constitution, and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land : and the judges, in every State, shall be bound thereby, any thing in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.
The Senators and Representatives before mentioned, and the members of the several State legislatures, and all executive and judicial officers, both of the United States and of the several States, shall be bound, by oath or affirmation, to support this Constitution ; but no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United States.
Art . VII. The ratification of the conventions of nine States, shall be sufficient for the establishment of this Constitution between the States so ratifying the same.

New States. Formation of new States out of other States.
Congress to have power to dispose of and make regulations respecting the territories or other property of the U. S.
Guarantee by the U. S. of a republican form of government to every State ; and each State to be protected from invasion, and against domestic violence.
Amendments to Constitution.
No State, without its consent, shall be deprived of an equal suffrage in the Senate.
Debts &c., contracted before the adoption of the Constitution to be valid against the U. S.
The Constitution and laws of the U. S. or treaties, the supreme law of the land.
Oath or affirmation to support the Constitution.
No religious test a qualification for office. Ratification of the Constitution.

Done in Convention, by the unanimous consent of the States present, the seventeenth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand
(a) Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 16 Peters, 539. The clause in the Constitution relating to fugitives from labour, manifestly contemplates the existence of a positive, unqualified right on the part of the owner of the slave, which no State law or regulation can in any way qualify, regulate, control, or restrain. Any law or regulation which interrupts, limits, delays, or postpones the rights of the owner to the immediate command of his service or labour, operates pro tanto, a discharge of the slave therefrom. The question can never be how much he is discharged from ; but whether he is discharged from any service by the natural and necessary operation of the State laws, or State regulations. The question is not one of quantity and degree, but of withholding or controlling the incidents of a positive right.
The owner of a fugitive slave has the same right to take him in a State to which he has escaped or fled, that he had in the State from which he escaped; and it is well known that this right to seizure or re-capture is universally acknowledged in all the slave-holding States. Ibid.

20

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.

seven hundred and eighty-seven, and of the independence of the United States of America the twelfth. In witness whereof we have hereunto subscribed our names.

GEORGE WASHINGTON, Pre sid en t , and Deputy from Virginia.

New Hampshire.--John Langdon, Nicholas Gilman.

Massachusetts.--Nathaniel Gorham, Rufus King.

Connecticut.--William Samuel Johnson, Roger Sherman.

New York.--Alexander Hamilton.

New Jersey.--William Livingston, David Brearley, William Paterson,

Jonathan Dayton.

Pennsylvania.--Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Mifflin, Robert Morris,

George Clymer, Thomas Fitzsimons, Jared Ingersoll, James Wilson,

Gouverneur Morris.

Delazvare.--George Read, Gunning Bedford, Jun., John Dickinson,

Richard Bassett, Jacob Broom.

Maryland.--James M'Henry, Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer, Daniel

Carroll.

Virginia.--John Blair, James Madison, Jun.

North Carolina.--William Blount, Richard Dobbs Spaight, Hugh

Williamson.

South Carolina.--John Rutledge, Charles Cotesworth Pinckney,

Charles Pinckney, Pierce Butler.

Georgia.--William Few, Abraham Baldwin.

Attest:

Wil li am Jac kso n , Secretary.

TREATY OF PEACE AND FRIENDSHIP

January, 1787.

Between the United States of America, and His Imperial Majesty the Emperor of Morocco, (a)
To all Persons to whom these Presents shall come or be made known. Wher eas the United States of America, in Congress assembled, by their commission bearing date the twelfth day of May, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-four, thought proper to constitute John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson, their Ministers Plenipotentiary, giving to them, or a majority of them, full powers to confer, treat and negociate with the Ambassador, Minister, or Commissioner of his Majesty the Emperor of Morocco, concerning a treaty of amity and commerce; to make and receive propositions for such treaty, and to conclude and sign the same, transmitting it to the United States in Congress assembled, for their final ratification; and by one other commission, bearing date the eleventh day of March, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, did further empower the said Ministers Plenipotentiary, or a majority of them, by writing under their hands and seals, to appoint such agent in the said business as they might think proper, with authority under the directions and instructions of the said Ministers, to commence and prosecute the said negociations and conferences for the said treaty, provided that the said treaty should be signed by the said Ministers: And whereas we, the said John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, two of the said Ministers Plenipotentiary (the said Benjamin Franklin being absent) by writing under the hand and seal of the said John Adams at London, October the fifth, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, and of the said Thomas Jefferson at Paris, October the eleventh of the same year, did appoint Thomas Barclay, agent in the business aforesaid, giving him the powers therein, which, by the said second commission, we were authorized to give, and the said Thomas Barclay, in pursuance thereof, hath arranged articles for a treaty of amity and commerce between the United States of America, and his Majesty the Emperor of Morocco, which articles, written in the Arabic language, confirmed by his said Majesty the Emperor of Morocco, and sealed with his royal seal, being translated into the language of the said United States of America, together with the attestations thereto annexed, are in the following words, to wit:

In the Name of Alm ig hty God . This is a Treaty of Peace and Friendship established between us and the United States of America, which is confirmed, and which we have ordered to be written in this book, and sealed with our royal seal, at our court of Morocco, on the twenty-fifth day of the blessed month of Shaban, in the year one thousand two hundred, trusting in God it will remain permanent.
ARTICLE I. We declare that both parties have agreed that this treaty, consisting
(a) By "an act making an appropriation for the purpose therein mentioned," passed March 3, 1791, Laws U. S. vol. 1, 214, twenty thousand dollars are appropriated for effecting a negotiation of the treaty with Morocco, September 16, 1836, post, 484.
(100)

TREATY WITH MOROCCO. 1787.

101

of twenty-five articles, shall be inserted in this book, and delivered to the Honorable Thomas Barclay, the agent of the United States, now at our court, with whose approbation it has been made, and who is duly authorized on their part to treat with us concerning all the matters contained therein.
ARTICLE II.
If either of the parties shall be at war with any nation whatever, the other party shall not take a commission from the enemy, nor fight under their colours.
ARTICLE III.
If either of the parties shall be at war with any nation whatever, and take a prize belonging to that nation, and there shall be found on board subjects or effects belonging to either of the parties, the subjects shall be set at liberty, and the effects returned to the owners. And if any goods belonging to any nation, with whom either of the parties shall be at war, shall be loaded on vessels belonging to the other party, they shall pass free and unmolested, without any attempt being made to take or detain them.
ARTICLE IV.
A signal or pass shall be given to all vessels belonging to both parties, by which they are to be known when they meet at sea; and if the commander of a ship of war of either party shall have other ships under his convoy, the declaration of the commander shall alone be sufficient to exempt any of them from examination.

Emperor's consent to the treaty. Neither party shall take commission from the enemy of the other. Regulation in case of captures.
Signal or pass to be given to vessels.

ARTICLE V.
If either of the parties shall be at war, and shall meet a vessel at sea belonging to the other, it is agreed, that if an examination is to be made, it shall be done by sending a boat with two or three men only; and if any gun shall be fired, and injury done without reason, the offending party shall make good all damages.

How vessels shall be examined in time of war.

ARTICLE VI.
If any Moor shall bring citizens of the United States, or their effects, to his Majesty, the citizens shall immediately be set at liberty, and the effects restored ; and in like manner, if any Moor, not a subject of these dominions, shall make prize of any of the citizens of America, or their effects, and bring them into any of the ports of his Majesty, they shall be immediately released, as they will then be considered as under his Majesty's protection.
ARTICLE VII.
If any vessel of either party shall put into a port of the other, and have occasion for provisions or other supplies, they shall be furnished without any interruption or molestation.

Citizens of the U. S. captured, to be released. Vessels wanting supplies, to be furnished.

ARTICLE VIII.

If any vessel of the United States shall meet with a disaster at sea, Provision in

and put into one of our ports to repair, she shall be at liberty to land case of misfor-

and re-load her cargo, without paying any duty whatever.

tune.

ARTICLE IX.

If any vessel of the United States shall be cast on shore on any part of our coasts, she shall remain at the disposition of the owners, and no one shall attempt going near her without their approbation, as she is
Tr2

102

TREATY WITH MOROCCO. 1787.

Regulation in case of shipwreck, and being forced into port. Vessels protected in certain cases.
Privileges of vessels in case of war.

then considered particularly under our protection; and if any vessel of the United States shall be forced to put into our ports by stress of weather, or otherwise, she shall not be compelled to land her cargo, but shall remain in tranquility until the commander shall think proper to proceed on his voyage.
ARTICLE X. If any vessel of either of the parties shall have an engagement with a vessel belonging to any of the Christian powers within gun shot of the forts of the other, the vessel so engaged shall be defended and protected as much as possible until she is in safety; and if any American vessel shall be cast on shore on the coast of Wadnoon, or any coast thereabout, the people belonging to her shall be protected and assisted, until, by the help of God, they shall be sent to their country.
ARTICLE XI. If we shall be at war with any Christian power, and any of our vessels sail from the ports of the United States, no vessel belonging to the enemy, shall follow until twenty-four hours after the departure of our vessels; and the same regulation shall be observed towards the American vessels sailing from our ports, be their enemies Moors or Christians.

Ships of war belonging to U. S. not to be examined.

ARTICLE XII. If any ship of war belonging to the United States shall put into any of our ports, she shall not be examined on any pretence whatever, even though she should have fugitive slaves on board, nor shall the governor or commander of the place compel them to be brought on shore on any pretext, nor require any payment for them.

Ships of war to be saluted.

ARTICLE XIII. If a ship of war of either party shall put into a port of the other and salute, it shall be returned from the fort with an equal number of guns, not with more or less.

Commerce on the footing of the most favoured nation.

ARTICLE XIV. The commerce with the United States shall be on the same footing as is the commerce with Spain, or as that with the most favoured nation for the time being; and their citizens shall be respected and esteemed, and have full liberty to pass and repass our country and seaports whenever they please, without interruption.

Privileges of merchants.

ARTICLE XV. Merchants of both countries shall employ only such interpreters, and such other persons to assist them in their business, as they shall think proper. No commander of a vessel shall transport his cargo on board another vessel; he shall not be detained in port longer than he may think proper; and all persons employed in loading or unloading goods, or in any other labour whatever, shall be paid at the customary rates, not more and not less.

In case of war, prisoners not to be enslaved, but exchanged.

ARTICLE XVI. In case of a war between the parties, the prisoners are not to be made slaves, but to be exchanged one for another, captain for captain, officer for officer, and one private man for another; and if there shall prove a deficiency on either side, it shall be made up by the payment of one hundred Mexican dollars for each person wanting. And it is agreed that all prisoners shall be exchanged in twelve months from the time of their being taken, and that this exchange may be effected by a merchant or any other person authorized by either of the parties.

TREATY WITH MOROCCO. 1787.

103

ARTICLE XVII.
Merchants shall not be compelled to buy or sell any kind of goods but such as they shall think proper; and may buy and sell all sorts of merchandize but such as are prohibited to the other Christian nations.
ARTICLE XVIII.
All goods shall be weighed and examined before they are sent on board, and to avoid all detention of vessels, no examination shall afterwards be made, unless it shall first be proved that contraband goods have been sent on board, in which case, the persons who took the contraband goods on board, shall be punished according to the usage and custom of the country, and no other person whatever shall be injured, nor shall the ship or cargo incur any penalty or damage whatever.

Merchants may buy and sell all goods except those prohibited to other Christian nations. Goods to be examined before sent on board, and not after, unless in case of fraud.

ARTICLE XIX.
No vessel shall be detained in port on any pretence whatever, nor be obliged to take on board any articles without the consent of the commander, who shall be at full liberty to agree for the freight of any goods he takes on board.

Vessels not to be detained.

ARTICLE XX.
If any of the citizens of the United States, or any persons under their protection, shall have any disputes with each other, the consul shall decide between the parties, and whenever the consul shall require any aid or assistance from our government, to enforce his decisions, it shall be immediately granted to him.

How disputes shall be settled.

ARTICLE XXL
If a citizen of the United States should kill or wound a Moor, or, on the contrary, if a Moor shall kill or wound a citizen of the United States, the law of the country shall take place, and equal justice shall be rendered, the consul assisting at the trial; and if any delinquent shall make his escape, the consul shall not be answerable for him in any manner whatever.

How crimes shall be punished.

ARTICLE XXII.
If an American citizen shall die in our country, and no will shall appear, the consul shall take possession of his effects; and if there shall be no consul, the effects shall be deposited in the hands of some person worthy of trust, until the party shall appear who has a right to demand them; but if the heir to the person deceased be present, the property shall be delivered to him without interruption; and if a will shall appear, the property shall descend agreeable to that will as soon as the consul shall declare the validity thereof.

How estates of deceased citizens shall be disposed of.

ARTICLE XXIII.
The consuls of the United States of America, shall reside in any seaport of our dominions that they shall think proper; and they shall be respected, and enjoy all the privileges which the consuls of any other nation enjoy; and if any of the citizens of the United States shall contract any debts or engagements, the consul shall not be in any manner accountable for them, unless he shall have given a promise in writing for the payment or fulfilling thereof, without which promise in writing, no application to him for any redress shall be made.

Consuls and their privileges.

104

TREATY WITH MOROCCO. 1787.

Regulations in case of war.

ARTICLE XXIV. If any differences shall arise by either party infringing on any of the articles of this treaty, peace and harmony shall remain notwithstanding, in the fullest force, until a friendly application shall be made for an arrangement, and until that application shall be rejected, no appeal shall be made to arms. And if a war shall break out between the parties, nine months shall be granted to all the subjects of both parties, to dispose of their effects and retire with their property. And it is further declared, that whatever indulgences, in trade or otherwise, shall be granted to any of the Christian Powers, the citizens of the United States shall be equally entitled to them.

Duration of treaty.

ARTICLE XXV This treaty shall continue in full force, with the help of God, for fifty years.

We have delivered this book into the hands of the beforementioned Thomas Barclay, on the first day of the blessed month of Ramadan, in the year one thousand two hundred.

I certify that the annexed is a true copy of the translation made by Isaac Cardoza Nunez, interpreter at Morocco, of the treaty between the Emperor of Morocco and the United States of America.

THOMAS BARCLAY.

Vessels of U. S. to be protected.

ADDITIONAL ARTICLE. Grace to the only God . I, the under-written, the servant of God, Taher Ben Abdelkack Fennish, do certify, that His Imperial Majesty, my master, (whom God preserve,) having concluded a treaty of peace and commerce with the United States of America, has ordered me, the better to compleat it, and in addition of the tenth article of the treaty, to declare, " That if any vessel belonging to the United States, shall be in any of the ports of his Majesty's dominions, or within gun-shot of his forts, she shall be protected as much as possible ; and no vessel whatever, belonging either to Moorish or Christian Powers, with whom the United States may be at war, shall be permitted to follow or engage her, as we now deem the citizens of America our good friends." And, in obedience to his Majesty's commands, I certify this declaration, by putting my hand and seal to it, on the eighteenth day of Ramadan,(a) in the year one thousand two hundred.
The servant of the King, my master, whom God preserve,

TAHER BEN ABDELKACK FENNISH.

I do certify that the above is a true copy of the translation made at Morocco, by Isaac Cordoza Nunez, interpreter, of a declaration made and signed by Sidi Hage Taher Fennish, in addition to the treaty between the Emperor of Morocco and the United States of America, which declaration the said Taher Fennish made by the express directions of his Majesty. THOMAS BARCLAY.
(a) The Ramadan of the year of the Hegira 1200, commenced on the 28th June, in the year of our Lord 1786.

TREATY WITH MOROCCO. 1787.

105

Now, know ye , That we, the said John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, Ministers Plenipotentiary aforesaid, do approve and conclude the said treaty, and every article and clause therein contained, reserving the same nevertheless to the United States in Congress assembled, for their final ratification.

In testimony whereof, we have signed the same with our names and seals, at the places of our respective residence, and at the dates expressed under our signatures respectively.

JOHN ADAMS, London, January 25th, 1787.

(l . s .)

THOMAS JEFFERSON, (l . s .) Paris, January 1st, 1787

14

