CONVENTION
Between His Most Christian Majesty and the United States of America.

CONVENTION

Nov. 14, 1788.

Between His Most Christian Majesty and the United States of America, for the Purpose of defining and establishing the Functions and Privileges of their respective Consuls and ViceConsuls. (a)
His Majesty the Most Christian King, and the United States of America, having, by the twenty-ninth article of the treaty of amity and commerce concluded between them, mutually granted the liberty of having, in their respective states and ports, consuls, vice-consuls, agents and commissaries, and being willing, in consequence thereof, to define and establish, in a reciprocal and permanent manner, the functions and privileges of Consuls and vice-consuls, which they have judged it convenient to establish of preference, His Most Christian Majesty has nominated the Sieur Count of Montmorin, of St. Herent, Marechal of his Camps and Armies, Knight of his Orders and of the Golden Fleece, his Counsellor in all his Councils, Minister and Secretary of State, and of his Commandments and Finances, having the department of Foreign Affairs; and the United States have nominated the Sieur Thomas Jefferson, citizen of the United States of America, and their Minister Plenipotentiary near the King, who, after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, have agreed on what follows:

Consuls to present commissions, and to be entitled to an exequatur.

ARTICLE I. The consuls and vice-consuls named by the Most Christian King and the United States, shall be bound to present their commissions according to the forms which shall be established respectively by the Most Christian King within his dominions, and by the Congress within the United States. There shall be delivered to them, without any charges, the exequatur necessary for the exercise of their functions; and on exhibiting the said exequatur, the governors, commanders, heads of justice, bodies corporate, tribunals and other officers having authority in the ports and places of their consulates, shall cause them to enjoy immediately, and without difficulty, the pre-eminences, authority, and privileges, reciprocally granted, without exacting from the said consuls and viceconsuls any fee, under any pretext whatever.

Privileges of consuls.

ARTICLE II. The consuls and vice-consuls, and persons attached to their functions ; that is to say: their chancellors and secretaries, shall enjoy a full and entire immunity for their chancery, and the papers which shall be therein contained. They shall be exempt from all personal service, from soldiers' billets, militia, watch, guard, guardianship, trustee-ship,

(a) An act to declare the treaties heretofore concluded with France no longer obligatory on the United States. July 7, 1798; Laws U. S. vol. 1, 578.
(106)

CONVENTION
Entre le Roi tres Chretien, et les Etats Ums de l' Amerique.
CONVENTION Entre le Roi tres Chretien, et les Etats Unis de I'Amerique, a,
l'effet de determiner et fixer les fonctions et prerogatives des Consuls et Vice-Consuls respectifs.
Sa Majeste le Roi tres Chretien, et les Etats Unis de I'Amerique, s'etant accordes mutuellement par Part. XXIX, du traite d'amitie et de commerce conclu entr'eux, la liberte de tenir dans leurs Etats et ports respectifs, des consuls, et vice-consuls, agens et commissaires, et voulant en consequence determiner et fixer d'une maniere reciproque et permanente, les fonctions et prerogatives des consuls, et vice-consuls qu'ils ont juge convenable d'etablir de preference, sa Majeste tres Chretienne a nomine le Sieur Comte de Montmorin de St. Herent, marechal de ses camps et armees, chevalier de ses ordres et de la toison-d'or, son conseiller en tous ses conseils, ministre et secretaire d'etat et de ses commandements et finances, aiant le departement des affaires etrangeres; et les Etats Unis ont nomme le Sieur Thomas Jefferson, citoyen des Etats Unis de 1'Amerique, et leur ministre plenipotentiaire aupres du Roi, lesquels, apres s'etre communique leurs plein-pouvoirs respectifs sont convenus de ce qui suit.
ARTICLE I. Les consuls et vice-consuls nommes par le Roi tres Chretien et les Etas Unis seront tenus de presenter leurs provisions selon la forme qui se trouvera etablie respectivement par le Roi tres Chretien dans ses Etats, et par le Congres dans les Etats Unis. On leur delivrera sans aucuns fraix l'exequatur necessaire a 1'exercice de leurs fonctions, et sur 1'exhibition qu'ils feront du dit exequatur, les gouverneurs, commandants, chefs de justice, les corps, tribunaux ou autres officiers aiant autorite dans les ports et lieux de leurs consulats, les y feront jouir aussitot et sans difficulte des preeminences, autorite et privileges accordes reciproquement, sans qu'ils puissent exiger des dits consuls et vice-consuls aucun droit sous aucun pretexte quelconque.
ARTICLE II. Les consuls et vice-consuls et les personnes attachees a leurs fonctions, savoir, leurs chanceliers et secretaires, jouiront d'une pleine et entiere irnmunite pour leur chancellerie et les papiers qui y seront renfermes. Ils seront exemts de tout service personnel, logement des gens de guerre, milice, guet, garde, tutelle, curatelle, ainsi que de tous droits,
(107)

108

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1788.

Consuls may appoint agents.

as well as from all duties, taxes, impositions and charges whatsoever, except on the estate real and personal of which they may be the proprietors or possessors, which shall be subject to the taxes imposed on the estates of all other individuals : And in all other instances they shall be subject to the laws of the land as the natives are. Those of the said consuls and vice-consuls who shall exercise commerce, shall be respectively subject to all taxes, charges and impositions established on other merchants. They shall place over the outward door of their house, the arms of their sovereign; but this mark of indication shall not give to the said house any privilege of asylum for any person or property whatsoever.
ARTICLE III. The respective consuls and vice-consuls may establish agents in the different ports and places of their departments where necessity shall require. These agents may be chosen among the merchants, either national or foreign, and furnished with a commission from one of the said consuls : They shall confine themselves respectively to the rendering to their respective merchants, navigators and vessels, all possible service, and to inform the nearest consul of the wants of the said merchants, navigators and vessels, without the said agents otherwise participating in the immunities, rights and privileges attributed to consuls and vice-consuls, and without power under any pretext whatever, to exact from the said merchants any duty or emolument whatsoever.

Consuls may establish a chancery.

ARTICLE IV. The consuls and vice-consuls respectively may establish a chancery, where shall be deposited the consular determinations, acts and proceedings, as also testaments, obligations, contracts, and other acts done by or between persons of their nation, and effects left by deceased persons, or saved from shipwreck. They may consequently appoint fit persons to act in the said chancery, receive and swaar them in, commit to them the custody of the seal, and authority to seal commissions, sentences and other consular acts, and also to discharge the functions of notary and register of the consulate.

Power and duty of consuls.

ARTICLE V. The consuls and vice-consuls respectively shall have the exclusive right of receiving in their chancery, or on board of vessels, the declarations and all other the acts, which the captains, masters, crews, passengers, and merchants of their nation may chuse to make there, even their testaments and other disposals by last will: And the copies of the said acts, duly authenticated by the said consuls or vice-consuls, under the seal of their consulate, shall receive faith in law, equally as their originals would, in all the tribunals of the dominions of the Most Christian King, and of the United States. They shall also have, and exclusively, in case of the absence of the testamentary executor, administrator or legal heir, the right to inventory, liquidate and proceed to the sale of the personal estate left by subjects or citizens of their nation, who shall die within the extent of their consulate; they shall proceed therein with the assistance of two merchants of their said nation, or for want of them, of any other at their choice, and shall cause to be deposited in their chancery, the effects and papers of the said estates; and no officer, military, judiciary, or of the police of the country, shall disturb them or interfere therein, in any manner whatsoever: but the said consuls and vice-consuls shall not deliver up the said effects, nor the proceeds thereof, to the lawful heirs, or to their order, till they shall have caused to be paid all debts which the deceased shall have contracted in the country ; for which purpose the creditors shall have a right to attach the

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1788.

109

taxes, impositions et charges quelconques, a 1'exception seulement des biens meubles et immeubles dont ils seroient proprietaires on possesseurs, lesquels seront assujettis aux taxes imposees sur ceux de tous autres particuliers, et a tous egards ils demeureront sujets aux loix du pais comme les nationaux. Ceux des dits consuls et vice-consuls qui feront le commerce seront respectivement assujettis a toutes les taxes, charges et impositions etablies sur les autres negociants. Ils placeront sur la porte exterieure de leurs maisons les armes de leur souverain, sans que cette marque distinctive puisse donner aux dites maisons le droit d'asile, soit pour des personnes, soit pour des effets quelconques.

ARTICLE III. Les consuls et vice-consuls respectifs pourront etablir des agens dans les differens ports et lieux de leurs departements oil le besoin 1'exigera; ces agens pourront etre choisis parmi les negociants nationaux ou etrangers, et munis de la commission de I'un des dits consuls. Ils se renfermeront respectivement a rendre aux commercants, navigateurs et batiments respectifs, tous les services possibles, et a informer le consul le plus proche des besoins des dits commercants, navigateurs et batiments, sans que les dits agens puissent autrement participer aux immunites, droits et privileges attribues aux consuls et vice-consuls, et sans pouvoir sous aucun pretexte que ce soit, exiger aucun droit ou emolument quelconque des dits commercants.
ARTICLE IV. Les consuls et vice-consuls respectifs pourront etablir une chancellerie ou seront deposes les deliberations, actes et procedures consulaires, ainsi que les testaments, obligations, contrats, et autres actes faits par les nationaux ou entr'eux, et les effets delaisses par mort, ou sauves des naufrages. Ils pourront en consequence commettre a 1'exercice de la dite chancellerie des personnes capables, les recevoir, leur faire preter serment, leur donner la garde du sceau et le droit de sceller les commissions, jugements et autres actes consulaires, ainsi que d'y remplir les fonctions de notaire et greffiers du consulat.
ARTICLE V. Les consuls et vice-consuls respectifs auront le droit exclusif de recevoir dans leur chancellerie, ou a bord des batiments, les declarations et tous les autres actes que les capitaines, patrons, equipages, passagers, et negociants de leur nation voudront y passer, meme leur testament et autres dispositions de derniere volonte, et les dispositions des dits actes duement legalises par les dits consuls ou vice-consuls, et munis du sceau de leur consulat, feront foi en justice comme le feroient les originaux dans tous les tribunaux des etats du Roi tres Chretien et des Etats Unis. Ils auront aussi, et exclusivement, en cas d' absence d'executeur testamentaire, curateur ou heritiers legitimes, le droit de faire 1'inventaire, la liquidation et de proceder a la vente des effets mobiliers de la succession des sujets ou citoyens de leur nation, qui viendront a mourir dans 1'etendue de leur consulat. Ils y procederont avec 1'assistance de deux negocians de leur dite nation, ou a leur defaut, de tout autre a leur choix, et feront deposer dans leur chancellerie les effets et papiers des dites successions, sans qu'aucuns officiers militaires, de justice, ou de police du pais, puissent les y troubler, ni y intervenir de quelque maniere que ce soit; mais les dits consuls et vice-consuls ne pourront faire la deliverance des successions et de leur produit aux heritiers legitimes, ou a leurs mandataires, qu'apres avoir fait aquitter toutes ]es dettes que les defunts auront pu avoir contractees dans le pais; a 1'effet de quoi les creanciers auront droit de saisir les dits effets dans leurs
K

110

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1788.

said effects in their hands, as they might in those of any other individual whatever, and proceed to obtain sale of them till payment of what shall be lawfully due to them. When the debts shall not have been contracted by judgment, deed or note, the signature whereof shall be known, payment shall not be ordered but on the creditor's giving sufficient surety, resident in the country, to refund the sums he shall have unduly received, principal, interest and costs; which surety nevertheless shall stand duly discharged, after the term of one year in time of peace, and of two in time of war, if the demand in discharge cannot be formed before the end of this term against the heirs who shall present themselves. And in order that the heirs may not be unjustly kept out of the effects of the deceased, the consuls and vice-consuls shall notify his death in some one of the gazettes published within their consulate, and that they shall retain the said effects in their hands four months to answer all demands which shall be presented; and they shall be bound after this delay to deliver to the persons succeeding thereto, what shall be more than sufficient for the demands which shall have been formed.

Consuls to receive declarations, &c. from captains, of losses at sea.

ARTICLE VI. The consuls and vice-consuls respectively shall receive the declarations, protests and reports of all captains and masters of their respective nation on account of average losses sustained at sea : and these captains and masters shall lodge in the chancery of the said consuls and viceconsuls, the acts which they may have made in other ports on account of the accidents which may have happened to them on their voyage. If a subject of the Most Christian King and a citizen of the United States, or a foreigner, are interested in the said cargo, the average shall be settled by the tribunals of the country, and not by the consuls or vice-consuls; but when only the subjects or citizens of their own nation shall be interested, the respective consuls or vice-consuls shall appoint skilful persons to settle the damages and average.

Power of consuls in cases of shipwreck.

ARTICLE VII. In cases where, by tempest or other accident, French ships or vessels shall be stranded on the coasts of the United States, and ships or vessels of the United States shall be stranded on the coasts of the dominions of the Most Christian King, the consul or vice-consul nearest to the place of shipwreck shall do whatever he may judge proper, as well for the purpose of saving the said ship or vessel, its cargo and appurtenances, as for the storing and the security of the effects and merchandize saved. He may take an inventory of them, without the intermeddling of any officers of the military, of the customs, of justice, or of the police of the country, otherwise than to give to the consuls, viceconsuls, captain and crew of the vessel shipwrecked or stranded, all the succour and favour which they shall ask of them, either for the expedition and security of the saving and of the effects saved, or to prevent all disturbance. And in order to prevent all kind of dispute and discussion in the said cases of shipwreck, it is agreed, that when there shall be no consul or vice-consul to attend to the saving of the wreck, or that the residence of the said consul or vice-consul (he not being at the place of the wreck) shall be more distant from the said place than that of the competent judge of the country, the latter shall immediately proceed therein, with all the dispatch, certainty and precautions prescribed by the respective laws; but the said territorial judge shall retire on the arrival of the consul or vice-consul, and shall deliver over to him the report of his proceedings, the expenses of which the consul or viceconsul shall cause to be reimbursed to him, as well as those of saving the wreck. The merchandize and effects saved shall be deposited in the nearest custom-house, or other place of safety, with the inventory

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1788.

Ill

mains, de meme que dans celles de tout autre individu quelconque, et en poursuivre la vente jusqu'au pai'ement de ce qui leur sera legitimement du; lorsque les dettes n'auront ete contracted par jugement, par acte, ou par billet dont la signature sera reconnue, le pai'ement ne pourra en etre ordonne qu'en fournissant par le creancier caution suffisante et domiciliee de rendre les sommes induement percues, principal, interets et fraix; les quelles cautions cependant demeuereront duement dechargees apres une annee, en terns de paix, et deux, en terns de guerre, si la demande en decharge ne peut etre formee avant ces delais centre les heritiers qui se presenteront. Et afin de ne pas faire injustement attendre aux heritiers les effets du defunt, les consuls et vice-consuls feront annoncer sa mort dans quelqu' une des gazettes qui se publient dans 1'entendue de leur consulat, et qu'ils retiendront les dits effets sous leurs mains pendant quatre mois pour repondre a toutes les demandes qui se presenteront: et ils seront tenus, apres ce delai, de delivrer aux heritiers, 1'excedent du montant des demandes qui auront ete formees.
ARTICLE VI.
Les consuls et vice-consuls respectifs recevront les declarations, protestations et rapports de tous capitaines et patrons de leur nation respective, pour raison d'avaries essuyees a la mer, et ces capitaines et patrons remettront dans la chancellerie des dits consuls et vice-consuls les actes qu'ils auront faits dans d'autres ports pour les accidens qui leur seront arrives pendant leur voyage. Si un sujet du Roi tres Chretien et un habitant des Etats Unis, ou un etranger, sont interesses dans la dite cargaison, 1'avarie sera reglee par les tribunaux du pai's, et non par les consuls et vice-consuls; mais lorsqu'il n'y aura d'interesses que les sujets ou citoyens de leur propre nation, les consuls ou les viceconsuls respectifs nommeront des experts pour regler les dommages et avaries.
ARTICLE VII.
Dans le cas ou, par tempete, ou autres accidents, des vaisseaux ou batiments Francais echoiieront sur les cotes des Etats Unis, et des vaisseaux et batiments des Etats Unis echoiieront sur les cotes des Etats de sa Majeste tres Chretienne, le consul ou le vice-consul, le plus proche du lieu du naufrage, pourra faire tout ce qu'il jugera convenable, tant pour sauver le dit vaisseau ou batiment, son chargement et apartenances, que pour le magazinage et la surete des effets sauves et marchandises. Il pourra en faire 1'inventaire, sans qu' aucuns officiers militaires, des doiianes, de justice ou de police du pais, puissent s'y immiscer autrement que pour faciliter aux consuls et vice-consuls, capitaine et equipage du vaisseau naufrage, ou echoiie, tous les secours et faveurs qu'ils leur demanderont, soit pour la celerite, et la surete du sauvetage et des effets sauves, soit pour eviter tous desordres. Pour prevenir meme toute espece de conflit et de discutsion dans les dits cas de naufrage, il a ete convenu que lorsqu'il ne se trouvera pas de consul ou vice-consul pour faire travailler au sauvetage, ou que la residence du dit consul ou vice-consul, qui ne se trouvera pas sur le lieu du naufrage, sera plus eloignee du dit lieu que celle du juge territorial competent, ce dernier sera proceder sur le champ avec toute la celerite, la surete et les precautions prescrites par les loix respectives; sauf au dit juge territorial a. se retirer, le consul ou vice-consul survenant, et a lui remettre 1'expedition des procedures par lui faites, dont le consul ou vice-consul lui fera rembourser les fraix, ainsi que ceux du sauvetage. Les marchandises et effets sauves devront etre deposes a la doiiane ou autre lieu de surete le plus prochain avec 1'inventaire qui en aura ete dresse par le consul ou vice-consul, ou en leur absence par le juge qui en aura connu,

112

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1788.

Power of consuls respecting vessels of their own nation.

thereof, which shall have been made by the consul or vice-consul, or by the judge who shall have proceeded in their absence, that the said effects and merchandize may be afterwards delivered, (after levying therefrom the costs) and without form of process, to the owners, who being furnished with an order for their delivery from the nearest consul or vice-consul, shall reclaim them by themselves, or by their order, either for the purpose of re-exporting such merchandize, in which case they shall pay no kind of duty of exportation, or for that of selling them in the country, if they be not prohibited there, and in this last case, the said merchandize, if they be damaged, shall be allowed an abatement of entrance duties, proportioned to the damage they have sustained, which shall be ascertained by the affidavits taken at the time the vessel was wrecked or struck.
ARTICLE VIII.
The consuls or vice-consuls shall exercise police over all the vessels of their respective nations, and shall have on board the said vessels all power and jurisdiction in civil matters, in all the disputes which may there arise; they shall have an entire inspection over the said vessels, their crew, and the changes and substitutions there to be made; for which purpose they may go on board the said vessels whenever they may judge it necessary. Well understood that the functions hereby allowed shall be confined to the interior of the vessels, and that they shall not take place in any case which shall have any interference with the police of the ports where the said vessels shall be.

Power of consuls in regard to deserters, and mode of proceeding.

ARTICLE IX. The consuls and vice-consuls may cause to be arrested the captains, officers, mariners, sailors, and all other persons, being part of the crews of the vessels of their respective nations, who shall have deserted from the said vessels, in order to send them back and transport them out of the country : For which purpose, the said consuls and vice-consuls shall address themselves to the courts, judges and officers competent, and shall demand the said deserters in writing, proving by an exhibition of the registers of the vessel or ship's roll, that those men were part of the said crews; and on this demand so proved (saving however where the contrary is proved) the delivery shall not be refused; and there shall be given all aid and assistance to the said consuls and vice-consuls for the search, seizure and arrest of the said deserters, who shall even be detained and kept in the prisons of the country, at their request and expense until they shall have found an opportunity of sending them back; but if they be not sent back within three months, to be counted from the day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty, and shall be no more arrested for the same cause.

Citizens amenable for crimes to the judges of the country.
How to proceed when offenders withdraw on board their vessels.

ARTICLE X. In cases where the respective subjects or citizens shall have committed any crime, or breach of the peace, they shall be amenable to the judges of the country.
ARTICLE XL When the said offenders shall be a part of the crew of a vessel of their nation, and shall have withdrawn themselves on board the said vessel, they may be there seized and arrested by order of the judges of the country: These shall give notice thereof to the consul or vice-consul, who may repair on board if he thinks proper : But this notification shall not in any case delay execution of the order in question. The persons arrested shall not afterwards be set at liberty until the consul or vice-

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1788.

113

pour les dits effets et rnarchandises etre ensuite delivres apres le prelevement des fraix, et sans forme de proces, aux proprietaires, qui, munis de la main-levee du consul ou vice-consul le plus proche, les reclameront par eux-memes, ou par leurs mandataires, soit pour reexporter les rnarchandises, et dans ce cas elles ne paieront aucune espece de droits de sortie, soit pour les vendre dans le pais, si elles n'y sont pas prohibees; et dans ce dernier cas, les dites rnarchandises se trouvant avarices, on leur accordera une moderation sur les droits d'entree proportionne au dommage souffert, lequel sera constate par le proces verbal dresse lors du naufrage ou de 1'echoiiement.

ARTICLE VIII.

Les consuls ou vice-consuls exerceront la police sur tous les batimens de leurs nations respectives, et auront a bord des dits batimens tout pouvoir et jurisdiction en matiere civile dans toutes les discustions qui pourront y survenir; ils auront une entiere inspection sur les dits batiments, leurs equipages et les changements et remplacements a y faire; pour quel effet ils pourront se transporter a bord des dits batiments toutes les fois qu'ils le jugeront necessaire; bien entendu que les fonctions ci-dessus enoncees seront concentrees dans 1'interieur des batiments, et qu'elles ne pourront avoir lieu dans aucun cas qui aura quelque raport avec la police des ports ou les dits batiments se trouveront.
ARTICLE IX.

Les consuls et vice-consuls pourront faire arreter les capitaines, officiers, mariniers, matelots et toutes autres personnes faisant partie des equipages des batiments de leurs nations respectives, qui auroient deserte des dits batimens, pour les renvoyer et faire transporter hors du pais. Auquel effet les dits consuls et vice-consuls s'addresseront aux tribunaux, juges, et officiers competents et leur feront, par ecrit, la demande des dits deserteurs, en justifiant par 1'exhibition des registres du batiment ou role d'equipage, que ces hommes faisoient partie des susdits equipages. Et sur cette demande, ainsi justifiee, sauf toutefois la preuve contraire, 1'extradition ne pourra etre refusee; et il sera donne toute aide et assistance aux dits consuls et vice-consuls pour la recherche, saisie et arrestation des susdits deserteurs, lesquels seront meme detenus et gardes dans les prisons du pai's, a leur requisition, et a leurs frais jusqu' a ce qu'ils a'ient trouve occasion de les renvoyer. Mais s'ils n' etoient renvoyes dans le delai de trois mois a compter du jour de leur arret, ils seront elargis, et ne pourront plus etre arretes pour la meme cause.
ARTICLE X.
Dans le cas ou les sujets ou citoyens respectifs auront commis quelque crime ou infraction de la tranquillite publique, ils seront justiciables des juges du pais.

ARTICLE XI.

Lorsque les dits coupables feront partie de 1'equipage de 1'un des batiments de leur nation, et se seront retires a bord des dits navires, ils pourront y etre saisis et arretes par 1'ordre des juges territoriaux : ceuxci en previendront le consul ou vice-consul, lequel pourra se rendre a bord s'il le juge a-propos: mais cette prevenance ne pourra en aucun cas retarder 1'execution de 1'ordre dont il est question. Les personnes

arretees ne pourront ensuite etre mises en liberte, qu' apres que le con-

15

k2

114

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1788.

Disputes between citizens in a foreign country to be settled by consuls. Tribunals to decide commercial affairs.

consul shall have been notified thereof; and they shall be delivered to him, if he requires it, to be put again on board of the vessel on which they were arrested, or of others of their nation, and to be sent out of the country.
ARTICLE XII.
All differences and suits between the subjects of the Most Christian King, in the United States, or between the citizens of the United States, within the dominions of the Most Christian King, and particularly all disputes relative to the wages and terms of engagement of the crews of the respective vessels, and all differences of whatever nature they be, which may arise between the privates of the said crews, or between any of them and their captains, or between the captains of different vessels of their nation, shall be determined by the respective consuls and viceconsuls, either by a reference to arbitrators, or by a summary judgment, and without costs. No officer of the country, civil or military, shall interfere therein, or take any part whatever in the matter : and the appeals from the said consular sentences shall be carried before the tribunals of France or of the United States, to whom it may appertain to take cognizance thereof.
ARTICLE XIII.
The general utility of commerce having caused to be established within the dominions of the Most Christian King, particular tribunals and forms for expediting the decision of commercial affairs, the merchants of the United States shall enjoy the benefit of these establishments; and the Congress of the United States will provide in the manner the most conformable to its laws, for the establishment of equivalent advantages in favour of the French merchants, for the prompt dispatch and decision of affairs of the same nature.

Citizens exempted from personal service in place of settlement. If either party grant greater consular privileges to another nation they shall be common to both.

ARTICLE XIV. The subjects of the Most Christian King, and the citizens of the United States, who shall prove by legal evidence, that they are of the said nations respectively, shall in consequence enjoy an exemption from all personal service in the place of their settlement.
ARTICLE XV. If any other nation acquires by virtue of any convention whatever, a treatment more favourable with respect to the consular pre-eminences, powers, authority and privileges, the consuls and vice-consuls of the Most Christian King, or of the United States, reciprocally shall participate therein, agreeable to the terms stipulated by the second, third and fourth articles of the treaty of amity and commerce, concluded between the most Christian King and the United States.

Duration of this convention.

ARTICLE XVI.
The present convention shall be in full force during the term of twelve years, to be counted from the day of the exchange of ratifications, which shall be given in proper form, and exchanged on both sides within the space of one year, or sooner if possible.

In faith whereof, we, Ministers Plenipotentiary, have signed the present convention, and have thereto set the seal of our arms.

Done at Versailles, the 14th of November, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-eight.
L. C. DE MONTMORIN, (l . s .) THOMAS JEFFERSON, (l . s .)

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1788.

115

sul ou vice-consul en aura ete prevenu, et elles lui seront remises s'il le requiert, pour etre reconduites sur les batiments ou elles auront ete arretes, ou autres de leur nation, et etre renvoyees hors du pais.

ARTICLE XII.
Tous differends et proces entre les sujets du Roi tres Chretien dans les Etats Unis, ou entre les citoyens des Etats Unis dans les Etats du Roi tres Chretien, et notamment toutes les discustions relatives aux salaires et conditions des engagements des equipages des batiments respectifs, et tous differends de quelque nature qu'ils soient, qui pourroient s'elever entre les hommes des dits equipages, ou entre quelques uns d'eux et leurs capitaines, ou entre les capitaines de divers batiments nationaux, seront termines par les consuls et vice-consuls respectifs, soit par un renvoi par devant des arbitres, soit par un jugement sommaire, et sans frais. Aucun officier territorial, civil ou militaire ne pourra y intervenir, ou prendre une part quelconque a 1'affaire, et les apels des dits jugements consulaires seront portes devant les tribunaux de France ou des Etats Unis qui doivent en connaitre.

ARTICLE XIII. L'utilite generale du commerce aiant fait etablir dans les etats du Roi tres Chretien, des tribunaux et des formes particulieres pour accelerer la decision des affaires de commerce, les negocians des Etats Unis jouiront du benefice de ces etablissements, et le Congres des Etats Unis pourvoira de la maniere la plus conforme a ses lois, a 1'etablissement des avantages equivalents en faveur des negociants Francais pour la prompte expedition et decision des affaires de la meme nature.

ARTICLE XIV. Les sujets du Roi tres Chretien et les citoyens des Etats Unis, qui justifieront authentiquement etre du corps de la nation respective, jouiront en consequence de 1'exemption de tout service personnel dans le lieu de leur etablissement.
ARTICLE XV. Si quelqu' autre nation acquiert, en vertu d'une convention quelconque, un traitement plus favorable relativement aux pre-eminences, pouvoirs, autorite et privileges consulaires, les consuls et vice-consuls du Roi tres Chretien ou des Etats Unis, reciproquement, y participeront, aux termes stipules par les articles deux, trois et quatre, du traite d'amitie et de commerce conclu entre le Roi tres Chretien et les Etats Unis.
ARTICLE XVI. La presente convention aura son plein effet pendant 1'espace de douze ans a compter du jour de 1'echange des ratifications, lesquelles seront donnees en bonne forme et echangees de part et d'autre dans 1'espace d'un an, ou plutot si faire se peut.
En foi de quoi, nous, Ministres Plenipotentiaires, avons signe la presente convention, et y avons fait apposer le cachet de nos armes.
Fait a Versailles, le 14 Novembre, mil sept cent quatre-vingt-huit.

L. C. DE MONTMORIN, (l . s .) THOMAS JEFFERSON, (l . s .)

