POSTAL CONVENTION--NEW SOUTH WALES. Jan . 15, 1874.

569

Postal convention between the United States of America and the colonial Jan.15,1874. government of New South Wales.

The undersigned, being thereunto duly authorized by their respective Contracting pargovernments, have agreed upon the following articles establishing and ties. regulating the exchange of correspondence between the United States of America and the colony of New South Wales:

Article 1.

There shall be an exchange of correspondence between the United States of America and New South Wales by means of the direct line of colonial mail-packets plying between San Francisco and said colony, as well as by such other means of direct mail-steamship transportation between the United States and New South Wales as shall hereafter be established, with the approval of the respective post departments of the two countries, comprising letters, newspapers, printed matter of every kind, and patterns and samples of merchandise, originating in either country, and addressed to and deliverable in the other country, as well as correspondence in closed mails originating in New South Wales and destined for foreign countries by way of the United States.

C o rrespondence to be exchanged, how.

Arti cle 2.

The post-office of San Francisco shall be the United States office of Offices of exexchange, and Sydney the office of exchange of the colony of New South change. Wales, for all mails transmitted under this arrangement.

Artic le 3.

No accounts shall be kept between the Post Departments of the two countries upon the international correspondence, written or printed, exchanged between them, but each country shall retain to its own use the postages which it collects.
The single rate of international letter-postage shall be twelve cents in the United States, and sixpence in New South Wales, on each letter weighing half an ounce or less, and an additional rate of twelve cents (sixpence) for each single weight of half an ounce or fraction thereof, which shall, in all cases, be prepaid at least one single rate, by means of postage-stamps, at the office of the mailing in either country. Letters unpaid, or prepaid less than one full rate of postage shall not be forwarded, but insufficiently paid letters on which a single rate or more has been prepaid shall be forwarded, charged with the deficient postage, to be collected and retained by the Post Department of the country of destination. Letters fully prepaid, received in either country from the other, shall be delivered free of all charge whatsoever.
The United States Post Office shall levy and collect to its own use, on newspapers addressed to or received from New South Wales, a postage charge of two cents; and on all other articles of printed matter, patterns and samples of merchandise addressed to or received from New South Wales, a postage charge of four cents per each weight of four ounces or fraction of four ounces.
The post office of New South Wales shall levy and collect to its own use, on newspapers and other articles of printed matter, patterns and samples of merchandise addressed to or received from the United States, the regular rates of domestic postage chargeable thereon by the laws and regulations of the colony of New South Wales.

No accounts to be kept.
Rates of postage. Unpaid letters not to be forwarded.
United States postage on newspapers, printed matter, &c.
New South Wales postage on newspapers, printed matter, &c.

570

CONVENTION--NEW SOUTH WALES. Jan . 15, 1874.

Regulations as to newspapers, &c.

Newspapers and all other kinds of printed matter and patterns and samples of merchandise, are to be subject to the laws and regulations of each country respectively, in regard to their liability to be rated with letter-postage when containing written matter, or for any other cause specified in said laws and regulations, as well as in regard to their liability to customs duty under the revenue laws.

Art icl e 4.

Transit for closed mails granted.
Rates for territorial transit.
Rates for territorial and sea transit.
Account of weight of letters, &c., to be rendered.

The United States office engages to grant the transit through the United States, as well as the conveyance by United States mail packets, of the correspondence in closed mails which the New South Wales postoffice may desire to transmit via the United States to British Columbia, the British North American Provinces, the West Indies, Mexico, Central and South America, and at the following rates of United States transit-postage, viz:
For the United States territorial transit of closed mails from New South Wales for Mexico, British Columbia, Canada, or other British North American Provinces, when transmitted entirely by land routes, six cents per ounce for letter mails and sixteen cents per pound for all
kinds of printed matter. For the United States territorial and sea transit of closed mails from
New South Wales for British Columbia or other British North American Provinces, Mexico, Central and South America, or the West India Islands, when transmitted from the United States by sea, twenty-five cents per ounce for letter mails and twenty cents per pound for all
kinds of printed matter. The New South Wales post office shall render an account to the
United States post office, upon letter-bills to accompany each mail, of the weight of the letters, and also of the printed and other matter contained in such closed mails forwarded to the United States for transmission to either of the above-named countries and colonies; and the accounts arising between the two offices on this class of correspondence shall be stated, adjusted, and settled quarterly, and the amounts of the United States transit charges found due on such closed mails shall be promptly paid over by the New South Wales post office to the United States post office, in such manner as the Postmaster-General of the
United States shall prescribe.

Arti cle 5.

Prepaid letters.

foreign

Prepaid letters from foreign countries received in and forwarded from the United States to New South Wales, shall be delivered in said colony free of all charges whatsoever, and letters received in New South Wales from the United States addressed to other colonies of Australia, will be forwarded to destination, subject to the same conditions as are applicable to correspondence originating in New South Wales and ad-
dressed to those countries.

Arti cle 6.

Letters, &e., to and from certain colonies not to be forwarded.

In the event of any of the Australian colonies not agreeing with New South Wales and New Zealand to contribute to the maintenance of any line of mail packets plying between New South Wales and New Zealand and the United States of America, and subsidized by New South Wales and New Zealand, the New South Wales post office may require the United States post office not to forward by such subsidized packets any mails, letters, newspapers, or other articles addressed to such colony, and the New South Wales post office may refuse to transmit to their destination all mails, letters, newspapers, or other printed matter addressed to such colony, and received in New South Wales from the

CONVENTION--NEW SOUTH WALES. Jan . 15, 1874.

571

United States by such subsidized packets, and may refuse to forward to their destination by such subsidized packets, all mails, letters, newspapers, or other printed matter received in New South Wales from such colony and addressed to the United States of America, or elsewhere.

Arti cle 7.

The two Post Departments may by mutual agreement provide for Registered artithe transmission of registered articles in the mails exchanged between cles. the two countries.
The register fee for each article shall be ten cents in the United States Fee. and fourpence in New South Wales.

Arti cle 8.

The two Post Departments shall settle by agreement between them, Details to be setall measures of detail and arrangement required to carry this conven- tled by agreement. tion into execution, and may modify the same in like manner from time to time, as the exigencies of the service may require.

Article 9.

Every fully prepaid letter dispatched from one country to the other shall be plainly stamped with the words " Paid all," in red ink, on the right-hand upper corner of the address, in addition to the date stamp of the office at which it was posted ; and on insufficiently paid letters the amount of the deficient postage shall be inscribed in black ink.

Marks on letters.

Arti cle 10.

Dead letters, which cannot be delivered from whatever cause, shall be mutually returned without charge, monthly, or as frequently as the regulations of the respective offices will permit.

Dead letters.

Arti cle 11.

This convention shall come into operation on the first day of Febru- C o mmencement ary, 1874, and shall be terminable at any time, on a notice by either and duration. office of six months.

Done in duplicate and signed in Washington the fifteenth day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-four.

[SEAL.]

JNO. A. J. CRESWELL,

[SEAL.]

Postmaster General of the United States. SAUL SAMUEL,

Postmaster General of New South Wales.

I hereby approve the aforegoing convention, and in testimony thereof I have caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

[sea l .]

U. S. GRANT.

Approval.

By the President:
Hamil ton Fish , Secretary of State.
Washi ngt on , January 15,1874.

572

CONVENTION--OTTOMAN EMPIRE. Aug . 11, 1874.

Aug. 11,1874.

Convention between the United States of America and the Ottoman Empire. Extradition. Concluded August 11,1874; Ratification advised by Senate January 20,1875; Ratified by President January 22,1875; Ratified by the Sultan September 22,1874; Ratifications exchanged at Constantinople April 22, 1875; Proclaimed May 26, 1875.

By th e Presi de nt of th e Unit ed Sta te s of Ameri ca .

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

Whereas a convention relative to the extradition of criminals, fugitives from justice, between the United States of America and the Ottoman Empire was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at Constantinople on the eleventh day of August,1874, the original of which convention, being in the English and French languages, is word for word as follows:

Contracting parties.

The United States ofAmerica and
His Imperial Majesty the Sultan, having judged it expedient, with a view to the better administration of justice and to the prevention ofcrimes within their respective territories and jurisdiction, that persons convicted of or charged with the crimes hereinafter specified, and being fugitives from justice, should, under certain circumstances, be reciprocally delivered up, have resolved to conclude a convention for that purpose, and have appointed as their Plenipotentiaries: the President of the United States, Geo: H. Boker, Minister Resident of the United States of America near the Sublime Porte; and His Imperial Majesty the Sultan, His Excellency A. Aarifi Pasha, his minister for Foreign Affairs; who, after reciprocal communication of their full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed upon the following
articles, to wit:

Les Etats-Unis d'Amerique et Sa Majesty Imperiale le Sultan,
ayant juge convenable, afin d'assurer une meilleure administration de la justice et prevenir les delits dans leurs territoires et juridictions respectifs, de se livrer reciproquement, dans certaines circonstances
determinees, les personnes condamnees ou accuses des crimes indiques ci-apres, qui se seraient soustraites a la poursuite de la justice, ont resolu de conclure une convention d'extradition, et ont nomme a cet effet pour leurs Plenipotentiaires: le President des Etats-Unis d'Amerique, George H. Boker, Ministre Resident des Etats-Unis d'Amerique pres la Sublime Porte, et Sa Majesty Imperiale le Sultan, Son Excellence Aarifi Pacha, son Ministre des Affaires Etrangeres; lesquels, aprfes s'etre rciproquement communique leurs pleins pouvoirs, qui ont ete trouves en bonne et due forme, ont arrete et signe les articles suivants, savoir:

Art . I.

Art . I.

Persons to be de>--
livered up.

The Government of the United States and the Ottoman Government mutually agree to deliver up persons who, having been convicted
of or charged with the crimes specified in the following article, committed within the jurisdiction of one of the contracting parties, shall seek an asylum or be found within the territories of the other: Pro-

Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis et le Gouvernement Ottoman conviennent mutuellement de se livrer les personnes qui, ayant ete condamnees ou ayant ete accusees des crimes specifies dans Particle suivant, commis dans la juridiction de lune des parties contractantes se refugieraient ou seraien t retrouvees dans le territoire de 1'autre. Nean-

CONVENTION--OTTOMAN EMPIRE. Aug . 11, 1874.

573

vided, That this shall only be done upon such evidence of criminality as, according to the laws of the place where the fugitive or person so charged shall be found, would justify his or her apprehension and commitment for trial, if the crime had been there committed.

moins, ceci ne sera fait que sous telles preuves de criminalite qui. d'apres les lois du lieu ou soit le fugitif soit la personne accusee seront retrouves, justifieraient son arrestation et donneraient lieu a des poursuites pennies, si le crime y avait ete com mis.

Proof of crime.

Ar t . II.

Ar t . II.

Persons shall be delivered up who shall have been convicted of, or be charged, according to the provisions of this convention, with any of the following crimes:
1st. Murder, comprehending the crimes designated by the terms of parricide, assassination, poisoning, and infanticide.
2d. The attempt to commit murder.
3d. The crimes of rape, arson, piracy and mutiny on board a ship, whenever the crew, or part thereof, by fraud or violence against the commander, have taken possession of the vessel.
4th. The crime of burglary, defined to be the action of breaking and entering by night into the house of another with the intent to commit felony; and the crime of robbery, defined to be the action of feloniously and forcibly taking from the person of another goods or money, by violence or putting him in fear.
5th. The crime of forgery, by which is understood the utterance of forged papers, the counterfeiting of public, sovereign, or government acts.
6th. The fabrication or circulation of counterfeit money, either coin or paper, of public bonds, banknotes, and obligations and in general of all things, being titles and instruments of credit, the counterfeiting of seals, dies, stamps, and marks of state and public administrations and the utterance thereof.
7th. The embezzlement of public moneys committed within the jurisdiction of either party, by public officers or depositors.
8th. Embezzlement by any person or persons hired or salaried, to the detriment of their employers,

L'extradition sera accord6e pour les personnes condamnees ou accusees, conformement aux dispositions de la presente convention, d'un des crimes suivants:
1°. Homicide volontaire, en comprenant sous cette denomination les crimes qualifies de parricide, assassinat, empoisonnement et infanticide.
2°. Tentative d'homicide.
3°. Les crimes de rapt, incendie, piraterie et emeute bord d'un navire, lorsque 1'equipage ou partie de 1'equipage, usant de fraude et de violence envers le capitaine, se serait empar6 du navire.
4°. Le crime de burglary, consistant en I'acte de s'introduire pendant la nuit avec effraction dans une maison habitee, avec intention criminelle, et le crime de robbery, consistant en I'acte de prendre, avec intention criminelle et par violence ou menace, des valeurs ou argent d'une autre personne.

Crimes for which extradition is to be made.
Murder.
Attempted murder.
Rape. Arson. Piracy. Mutiny.
Burglary,
Robbery.

5°. Le crime de faux, sous lequel on entend 1'emission d'ecrits falsifies et la contrefagon d'actes souverains, publics ou gouvernementaux.
6°. La fabrication et la mise en circulation de fausses monnaies, tant en metal qu'en papier, de rentes de 1'etat, de billets de banque et d'obligations, et, en general, de quelque titre ou instrument de credit que ce soit, la contrefagon de sceaux, poingons, cachets et timbres de 1'etat et des administrations publiques et remission des memes.
7°. Detournement des fonds publics commis dans la juridiction
de 1'une des parties par des officiers ou depositaries publics.
8°. Detournement commis par une ou plusieurs personnes employees ou salariees, au detriment

Forgery.
Counterfeiting.
E m b e zzlement by public officers.
E m b e zzlement by persons hired or salaried.

574

CONVENTION--OTTOMAN EMPIRE. Aug . 11, 1874.

when these crimes are subject to infamous punishment.

des personlies par lesquelles elles sont employees, toutes les fois que ces crimes sont passibles de peines in fam antes.

Art . III.

Art . III.

Political offences not included, nor previous crimes.

The provisions of this treaty shall not apply to any crime or offence of a political character, and the person or persons delivered up for the crimes enumerated in the preceding article shall in no case be tried for any ordinary crime, committed previously to that for which his or their surrender is asked.

-Les dispositions de cette convention ne s'appliqueront aucun crime ou d61it de caractere politique. L'individu ou les individus qui seront extrados pour les crimes enumeres dans Particle precedent ne pourront en aucun cas etre jugds pour aucun crime ordinaire anterieur a celui pour lequel 1'extradition est demandee.

Art . IV.

Art . IV.

When tion may ferred.

extradibe de-

If the person whose surrender may be claimed, pursuant to the stipulations of the present treaty, shall have been arrested for the commission of offenses in the country where he has sought an asylum, or shall have been convicted thereof, his extradition may be deferred until he shall have been acquitted, or have served the term of imprisonment to which he may have been
sentenced.

Si l'individu reclame en conformity des stipulations de la presente convention a ete arrete pour des delits commis dans le pays ou il s'est refugie, ou a ete condamne pour les memes, son extradition pourra etre differee jusqu'a ce qu'il ait ete acquitty ou qu'il ait subi le terme de Pemprisonnement auquel il aurait ete condamne.

Art . V.

Art . V.

Requisitions, how made.
When for fugitives convicted of crime.
When for fugitives charged with crime.
Warrant for arrest.

Requisitions for the surrender of fugitives from justice shall be made by the respective diplomatic agents of the contracting parties, or in the event of the absence of these from the country, or its seat of government, they may be made by superior consular officers. If the person whose extradition may be asked for shall have been convicted of a crime, a copy of the sentence of the court in which he may have been convicted, authenticated under its
seal, and an attestation of the official character of the judge by the proper executive authority, and of the latter by the minister or consul of the United States or of the Sublime Porte, respectively, shall accompany the requisition. When,
however, the fugitive shall have been merely charged with crime, a duly authenticated copy of the warrant for his arrest in the country where the crime may have been committed, or of the depositions upon which such warrant may have

Les demandes pour Pextradition de ceux qui se seraient soustraits aux poursuites de la justice seront faites par les agents diplomatiques respectifs des parties contractantes, et, en leur absence, par les agents consulaires supyrieurs. Si la personne dont Pextradition est demandye a ete condamnee pour quelque crime, une copie de la sentence de la cour qui Pa condamnye, legalisee par son propre cachet, et une attestation du caractere officiel du juge par Pentremise de Pautorite executive compytente, et la lygalisation
de cette derniere par le ministre ou consul des Etats-Unis ou de la Sublime Porte respectivement, devront accompagner cette demande. Si, toutefois, le fugitif n'est qu'accuse d'un crime, une copie, dument legalisee, de Pordre d'arret delivre dans le pays ou le crime aura ete commis, et des dypositions qui Pont motive, accompagnera la susdite demande. Le President des EtatsUnis et l'autority executive compe-

CONVENTION--OTTOMAN EMPIRE. AUG. 11, 1874.

575

been issued, must accompany the requisition as aforesaid. The President of the United States, or the proper executive authority in Turkey may then issue a warrant for the apprehension of the fugitive, in order that he may be brought before the proper judicial authority for examination. If it should then be decided that, according to law and the evidence, the extradition is due pursuant to the treaty, the fugitive may be given up according to the forms prescribed in such cases.
Art . VI.

tente en Turquie emettront le mandat d'arrestation afin que le prevenu puisse etre traduit devant 1'autoritejudiciaire competentepour etre juge. S'il est decide que, suivant la loi et les temoignages produits, l'extradition doit avoir lieu en vertu de cette convention, le fugitif sera extrade selon les formes prescrites en pareil cas.
Art . VI.

Extradition.

The expenses of the arrest, detention, and transportation of the persons claimed shall be paid by the government in whose name the requisition has been made.

Les frais de 1'arrestation, de la detention et du transport des individus reclames seront payes par le gouvernement au nom duquel la demande aura ete faite.

Expenses.

Art . VII.

Art . VII.

Neither of the contracting parties shall be bound to deliver up its own citizens under the stipulations of this treaty.

Les parties contractantes ne sont Own citizens not pas tenues d'accorder l'extradition to be delivered up. de leurs sujets ou citoyens respectifs en vertu de la presente convention.

Art . VIII.

Art . VIII.

This convention shall continue in force during five (5) years from the

day of exchange of ratification, but if neither party shall have given to the other six (6) months' previous notice of its intention to terminate the same, the convention shall remain in force five years longer, and so on.

The present convention shall be ratified, and the ratifications exchanged at Constantinople, within twelve (12) months, and sooner if possible.

In witness whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the present convention in duplicate, and have thereunto affixed their seals.

Done at Constantinople the elev-

enth day of August, one thousand

eight hundred, and seventy-four.

[sea l .J

Geo : H. Bok er .

[sea l .]

A. Aari fi .

Cette convention restera en vi- Convention to gueur pendant cinq ans, a partir de continue, how la date de Exchange des ratifica- long. tions; mais quand aucune des parties ne 1'aura denoncee six mois avant son expiration, elle restera en vigueur pendant cinq annees encore, et ainsi de suite.

La presente convention sera rati- Ratification, fiee et les ratifications seront echan- where, when. gees a Constantinople dans une annee, ou plus tot si faire se peut.

En foi de quoi les Plenipotentiaries respectifs Font signee en double original et y ont appose leurs sceaux.

Signatures.

Fait Constantinople, le onze aout, mil huit cent soixante-quatorze.

[sce au .] [sce au .]

A. Aari fi . Geo . H. Boke r .

And whereas the said convention has been duly ratified on both parts Ratification exand the respective ratifications were exchanged at Constantinople on changed. the twenty-second day of April last:

576
Proclamation.

CONVENTION--OTTOMAN EMPIRE. Aug . 11, 1874.

Now, therefore, be it known that I, Uly sse s S. Gran t , President of the United States of America, have caused -the said convention to be

made public, to the end that the same, and every clause and article thereof, may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United

States and the citizens thereof. In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand,and caused the seal

of the United States to be affixed. Done at the city of Washington this twenty-sixth day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-five,

[sea l .] and of the Independence of the United States of America the

ninety-ninth.

U. S. GRANT.

By the President: Hamil ton Fis h , Secretary of State.

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

577

Treaty concerning the formation of a General Postal Union, signed at Berne, October 9, 1874.

Oct. 9, 1874.

[Note .--This treaty, as signed, was in the French language only. The English translation has been added in Washington.]

Trai ts concernant la creation d'une Union generale des Postes, conclu entre 1'Allemagne, 1'Autriclie-Hongrie, la Belgique, le
Danemark, 1'Egypte, 1'Espagne, les Etats-Unis d'Amerique, la France, la Grande-Bretagne, la Grece, 1'Italie, le Luxembourg, la Norvege, les Pays-Bas, le Portugal, la Roumanie, la Russie, la Serbie, la Suede, la Suisse et la Turquie.
Les soussignes, plenipotentiaires des Gouvernements des pays ci-dessus bnumbrhs, ont d'un commun accord, et sous reserve de ratification, arrets la Convention suivaute:

Trea ty concerning the forma- Contracting partion of a General Postal Union, ties. concluded between Germany, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Denmark, Egypt, Spain, the United States of America, France, Great Britain, Greece, Italy, Luxemburg, Norway, the Netherlands, Portugal, Roumania, Russia, Servia, Sweden, Switzerland, and Turkey.
The undersigned, plenipotentiaries of the Governments of the countries above enumerated, have by common consent, and subject to ratification, agreed upon the following Convention:

Art icl e I.

Artic le I.

Les pays entre lesquels est conclu le present traits formeront, sous la designation de Union generate des postes, un seul territoire postal pour l'change reciproque des correspondances entre leurs bureaux
de poste.

The countries between which the General present treaty is concluded shall Union. form, under the title of General Postal Union, a single postal territory for the reciprocal exchange of correspondence between their post-offices.

Postal

Arti cle II.

Arti cle II.

Les dispositions de ce traite s'etendront aux lettres, aux cartescorrespondance, aux livres, aux
journaux et autres imprimes, aux echantillons de marchandises et aux papiers d'affaires originates de 1'un des pays de 1'Union et a destination d'un autre de ces pays. Elles s'appliqueront egalement a l'echange postal des objets ci-dessus entre les pays de 1'Union et les pays etrangers a 1'Union toutes les ibis que cet echange emprunte le territoire de deux des parties contractantes au moins.

The stipulations of this treaty shall extend to letters, post-cards, books, newspapers, and other printed papers, patterns of merchandise, and legal and commercial documents originating in one of the countries of the Union and intended for another of those coun-
tries. They shall also apply to the exchange by post of the articles above mentioned between the countries of the Union and countries foreign to the Union whenever such exchange takes place over the territory of two at least of the contracting parties.

Treaty stipulations to extend to what.

xix----- 37

578

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

Arti cle III.

Article III.

Letter-rate established.
Maximum a n d minimum.
Weight of single letter.

La taxe generale de 1'Union est fixee a 25 centimes pour la lettre simple affranchie.
Toutefois, comme mesure de transition, il est reserve a chaque pays, pour tenir compte de ses convenances monetaires ou autres, la faculty de percevoir une taxe sup6rieure ou inferieure a ce chiffre, moyennant qu'elle ne depasse pas 32 centimes et ne descende pas audessous de 20 centimes.
Sera considerde comme lettre simple toute lettre dont le poids ne depasse pas 15 grammes. La taxe des lettres depassant ce poids sera d'un port simple par 15 grammes
ou fraction de 15 grammes.

Charges on unpaid letters.
Post-card rates.
Conveyance by sea.

Le port des lettres non affranchies sera le double de la taxe du pays de destination pour les lettres affranchies.
L'affranchissement des cartescorrespondance est obligatoire. Leur taxe est fixee a la moitie de celle des lettres affranchies, avec faculte d'arrondir les fractions.
Pour tout transport maritime de plus de 300 milles marins dans le ressort de 1'Union, il pourra etre ajoute au port ordinaire une surtaxe qui ne pourra pas depasser la moitie de la taxe generale de 1'Union fixee pour la lettre affran-
chie.

The general Union rate of postage is fixed at 25 centimes for a single prepaid letter.
Nevertheless, as a measure of conversion, the option is reserved to each country, in order to suit its monetary or other requirements, of levying a rate higher or lower than this charge, provided that it does not exceed 32 centimes or go below 20 centimes.
Every letter which does not exceed 15 grammes in weight shall be considered a single letter. The charge upon letters exceeding that weight shall be a single rate for every 15 grammes or fraction of 15 g*rammes.
The charge on unpaid letters shall be double the rate levied in the country of destination on prepaid letters.
The prepayment of post-cards is compulsory. The postage to be charged upon them is fixed at onehalf of that on paid letters, with power to round off the fractions.
For all conveyance by sea of more than 300 nautical miles within the district of the Union, there may be added to the ordinary postage an additional charge which shall not exceed the half of the general Union rate fixed for a paid letter.

Arti cle IV.

Arti cle IV.

Mer chandise, &c., rates.
Maximum and minimum.

La taxe generale de 1'Union pour
les papiers d'affaires, les echantillons de marchandises, les journaux, les livres broches ou relies, les brochures, les papiers de musique, les cartes de visite, les catalogues, les prospectus, annonces et avis divers, imprimes, graves, lithographies ou autographies, ainsi que les photographies, est fixee a 7 centimes pour chaque envoi simple.
Toutefois, comme mesure de transition, il est reserve a chaque pays, pour tenir compte de ses convenances monetaires ou autres, la faculte de percevoir une taxe superieure ou inffirieure a ce chiffre,

The general Union rate for legal and commercial documents, patterns of merchandise, newspapers, stitched or bound books, pamphlets, music, visiting cards, catalogues, prospectuses, announcements and notices of various kinds, whether printed, engraved, lithographed, or autographed, as well as for photographs, is fixed at 7 centimes for
each single packet. Nevertheless, as a measure of
conversion, the option is reserved to each country, in order to suit its monetary or other requirements, of levying a rate higher or lower than this charge, provided that it

By Article 24 of the Detailed Regulations for carrying this Treaty into effect, any country which has not adopted the decimal metrical system of weight may substitute half an ounce for 15 grammes.

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

579

moyennant qu'elle ne depasse pas 11 centimes et ne descende pas audessous de 5 centimes.
Sera considere comme envoi simple tout envoi dont le poids ne despasse pas 50 grammes. La taxe des envois depassant ce poids sera d'un port simple par 50 grammes ou fraction de 50 grammes.
Pour tout transport maritime de plus de 300 miles marins dans le ressort de 1'Union, il pourra etre ajoutdau port ordinaire une surtaxe qui ne pourra pas depasser la moitid de la taxe generate de 1'Union fixee pour les objets de cette categorie.
Le poids maximum des objets mentionnes ci-dessus est fixe a 250 grammes pour les echantillons et a 1000 grammes pour tons les autres.
Est reserve le droit du Gouvernement de chaque pays de 1'Union de ne pas effectuer sur son territoire le transport et la distribution des objets designes dans le present article, a 1'egard desquels il n'aurait pas ete satisfait aux lois, ordonnances et decrets qui reglent les conditions de leur publication et de le.ur circulation.

does not exceed 11 centimes or go below 5 centimes.

Every packet which does not exceed 50 grammes in weight shall be considered a single packet. The charge upon packets exceeding that weight shall be a single rate for every 50 grammes or fraction of 50
g*rammes. For all conveyance by sea of
more than 300 nautical miles within the district of the Union, there may be added to the ordinary postage an additional charge which shall not exceed the half of the general Union rate fixed for articles of this
class. The maximum weight of the arti-
cles mentioned above is fixed at 250 grammes for patterns of merchandise, and at 1000 grammes for all the others.
There is reserved to the Government of each country of the Union the right to refuse to convey over its territory or to deliver articles specified in the present Article with regard to which the laws, orders, and decrees which regulate the conditions of their publication and circulation have not been observed.

Weight of single packet of merchandise, &c.
Conveyance b y sea.
Maximum weights of single packages o f merchandise, &c.
Reservation a s to articles specified in this article.

Artic le V.

Arti cle V.

Les objets designes dans Particle 2 pourront etre expedids sous recommandation.
Tout envoi recommande doit etre affrancbi.
Le port d'affranchissement des envois recommandes est le meme que celui des envois non recommandes.
La taxe a percevoir pour la recommandation et pour les avis de reception ne devra pas depasser celle admise dans le service interne du pays d'origine.
En cas de perte d'un envoi recommande et sauf le cas de force majeure, il sera paye une indemnite de 50 francs I'expediteur ou, sur la demande de celui-ci, an destinataire, par 1'Administration dans le territoire ou dans le service maritime de laquelle la perte a eu lieu,

The articles specified in Article 2 What may be

may be registered.

registered.

Every registered packet must be Prepayment re-

prepaid.

quired.

The postage payable on regis- Postage on registered articles is the same as that tered articles. on articles not registered.

The charge to be made for regis- Registration tration and for return receipts must charges. not exceed that made in the interior service of the country of origin.

In case of the loss of a registered Indemnity for article, except in the case of vis loss of registered major, there shall be paid an indem- articles. nity of 50 francs to the sender, or, at his request, to the addressee, by the Administration of the country in the territory or in the maritime service of which the loss has occurred--

*By Article 24 of the Detailed Regulations for carrying this Ti eaty into effect, any country which has not adopted the decimal metrical system of weight may substitute two ounces for 50 grammes, and may raise to four ounces the weight to be allowed for a single newspaper.

580

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

Exception.

c'est-a-dire ou la trace de 1'objet a disparu, a moins que, d'aprhs la legislation de son pays, cette Administration ne soit pas responsable pour la perte d'envois recommandes a l'interieur.

Indemnity to be promptly paid.
Limit of time for claiming indemnity.

Le paiement de cette indemnity aura lieu dans le plus bref delai possible et, au plus tard, dans le delai d'un an, a partir du jour de la reclamation.
Toute reclamation d'indemniteest prescribe, si elle n'a pas ete formul6e dans le delai d'un an, a partir de la remise a la poste de 1'envoi recommande.
Art icl e VI.

that is to say, where the trace of the article has been lost,--unless, according to the legislation of such country, the Administration is not responsible for the loss of registered articles sent through its interior post.
The payment of this indemnity shall be effected with the least possible delay, and, at the latest, within a year from the date of application.
All claim for an indemnity is excluded if it be not made within one year, counting from the date on which the registered article was posted.
Art icl e VI.

Postage, how prepaid.
Unpaid, &c., papers not forwarded.
Other articles.

L'affranchissement de tout envoi quelconque ne pent Gtre op6re qu'au moyen de timbres-poste ou d'enveloppes timbrees valables dans le pays d'origine.
Il ne sera pas donn6 cours aux journaux et autres imprimes non affranchis ou insuffisamment affranchis. Les autres envois non affranchis ou insuffisamment affranchis seront taxes comme lettres non affranchies, sauf deduction, s'il y a lieu, de la valeur des enveloppes timbrees ou des timbres-poste em-
ployes. Arti cle VII.

Prepayment of postage on every description of article can be effected only by means of postage-stamps or stamped envelopes valid in the country of origin.
Newspapers and other printed papers unpaid or insufficiently paid shall not be forwarded. Other articles when unpaid or insufficiently paid shall be charged as unpaid letters, after deducting the value of the stamped envelopes or postage-stamps (if any) employed.
Art icl e VII.

Re -transmission, Exception.

Aucun port supplementaire ne sera pergu pour la reexpedition
d'envois postaux dans l'int6rieur de 1'Union.
Settlement, dans le cas ou un envoi du service interne de I'un des pays de 1'Union entrerait, par suite d'une reexpedition, dans le service d'un autre pays de 1'Union, 1'Administration du lieu de destination
ajoutera sa taxe interne.

Franking and reduced postage.

Artic le VIII.
Les correspondances officielles relatives au service des postes sont exemptes du port. Sauf cette exception, il n'est admis ni franchise, ni moderation de port.

Artic le IX.

Each office to re- Chaque Administration gardera tain its collections. en entier les sommes qu'elle aura
pergues en vertu des articles 3, 4, 5, 6 et 7 ci-dessus. En conse-

No additional postage shall be charged for the re-transmission of postal articles within the interior of the Union.
But in case an article which has only passed through the interior service of one of the countries of the Union should, by being re-directed, enter into the service of another country of the Union, the Administration of the country of destination shall add its interior rate.
Arti cle VIII.
Official correspondence relative to the postal service is exempt from postage. With this exception, no franking or reduction of postage is allowed.
Art icl e IX.
Each Administration shall keep the whole of the sums which it collects by virtue of the foregoing Articles 3,4,5,6, and 7. Consequently,

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

581

quence, il n'y aura pas lieu de ce chef a un decompte entre les diverses Administrations de 1'Union.
Les lettres et les autres envois postaux ne pourront, dans le pays d'origine comme dans celui de destination, etre frappes a la charge des expediteurs ou des destinataires, d'aucune taxe ni d'aucun droit postal autres que ceux prdvus par les articles sus mentionn6s.
Arti cle X.
La liberte du transit est garantie dans le territoire entier de 1'Union.
En consequence, il y aura pleine et entiere liberte d'echange, les diverses Administrations postales de 1'Union pouvant s'exp^dier r^ciproquement, en transit par les pays intermediates, taut des depeches closes que des correspondances a decouvert, suivant les besoins du trafic et les convenances du service postal.
Les depeches closes et les correspondances a decouvert doivent toujours etre dirigees par les voies les plus rapides dont les Administrations postales disposent.
Lorsque plusieurs routes presentent les memes conditions de celerite, 1'Administration expeditrice a le choix de la route a suivre.
Il est obligatoire d'expedier en depeches closes toutes les fois que le nombre des lettres et autres envois postaux est de nature a entraver les operations du bureau reexpediteur, d'apres les declarations de 1'Administration interessee.
L'Office expediteur paiera a 1'Administration du territoire de transit une bonification de 2 francs par kilogramme pour les lettres et de 25 centimes par kilogramme pour les envois specifies a 1'art. 4, poids net, soit que le transit ait lieu en depeches closes, soit qu'il se fasse a decouvert.
Cette bonification pent etre portee a 4 francs pour les lettres et a 50 centimes pour les envois specifies a Part. 4, lorsqu'il s'agit d'un transit de plus de 750 kilometres sur le territoire d'une meme Administration.
Il est entendu toutefois que par tout ou le transit est deja actuelle-

there will be no necessity on this head for any accounts between the
several Administrations of the Union.
Neither the senders nor the addressees of letters and other postal packets shall be called upon to pay, either in the country of origin or in that of destination, any tax or postal duty other than those contemplated
by the Articles above mentioned.

No other taxes or duties collectible.

Article X.

The right of transit is guaranteed throughout the entire territory of the Union.
Consequently, there shall be full and entire liberty of exchange, the several Postal Administrations of the Union being able to send reciprocally, in transit through intermediate countries, closed mails as well as correspondence in open mails, according to therequirements of trade and the exigencies of the postal service.
Closed mails and correspondence sent in open mails must always be forwarded by the most rapid routes at the command of the Postal Administrations concerned.
When several routes offer the same advantages of speed, the despatching Administration shall have
the right of choosing the route to be adopted.
It is obligatory to make up closed mails whenever the number of letters and other postal packets is of a nature to binder the operations of the re-forwarding office, according to the declaration of the Administration interested.
The despatching Office shall pay to the Administration of the territory providing the transit, the sum of 2 francs per kilogramme for lettersand 25 centimes per kilogram me for the several articles specified in
Article 4, net weight, whether the transit takes place in closed mails or in open mails.
This payment may be increased to 4 francs for letters and to 50 centimes for the articles specified in Article 4, when a transit is provided of more than 750 kilometers in length over the territory of one Administration.
It is understood, however, that in any case in which the transit is

Right of transit guaranteed.
Full liberty of exchange guaranteed.
Speed in transmission required.
Choice of routes. When closed mails shall be made up. Payments to territory providing transit.
Increase of transit payments.
Exceptions.

582

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

Payments for seatransit.
Cost of sea-transit to be reduced.
Rates for s e atransit.
Not to be higher than now paid.
Weight of transit mails, how ascertained.

ment gratuit ou soumis a des taxes moins e1evees, ces conditions seront maintenues.
Dans les cas ou le transit aurait lieu par mer sur un parcours de plus de 300 milles marins dans le ressort de 1'Union, 1'Administration par les soins de laquelle ce service maritime est organise aura droit a la bonification des frais de ce transport.
Les membres de 1'Uuion s'engagent a reduire ces frais dans la mesure du possible. La bonification que 1'Office qui pourvoit au transport maritime pourra reclamer de ce chef de 1'Office expediteur ne devra pas depasser 6 francs 50 centimes par kilogramme pour les lettres, et 50 centimes par kilogramme pour les envois specifies a Particle 4, (poids net).
Dans aucun cas ces frais ne pourront etre superieurs a ceux bonifies maintenant. En consequence, il ne sera paye aucune bonification sur les routes postales maritimes ou il n'en est pas paye actuellement.
Pour etablir le poids des correspondances transitant, soit en depeches closes, soit a d6couvert, il sera fait a des epoques qui seront determinees d'un commun accord une statistique de ces envois pendant deux semaines. Jusqu'a revision le resultat de ce travail servira de base aux comptes des Administrations entre elles.

When revision may be demanded.
Exceptions t o transit rules.
Indiau mail. Across the United States.

Chaque Office pourra demander la revision:
1° En cas de modification importante dans le cours des correspondences;
2° A 1'expiration d'une annee apres la date de la derniere constatation.
Les dispositions du present article he sont pas applicables a la Malle des Indes, ni aux transports a effectuer travers le territoire des Etats-Unis d'Am6rique paries chemins de fer entre New-York et SanFrancisco. Ces services continueront a faire 1'objet d'arrangements particuliers entre les Administrations interess6es.

already actually gratuitous or subject to lower rates, those conditions shall be maintained.
Whenever a transit shall take place by sea over a distance exceeding 300 nautical miles within the district of the Union, the Administration by or at the expense of which this sea-service is performed shall have.the right to a payment of the expenses attending this transport.
The members of the Union engage to reduce those expenses as much as possible. Tbe payment which the Office providing the seaconveyance may claim on this account from the despatching Office shall not exceed 6 francs 50 centimes per kilogramme for letters, and 50 centimes per kilogramme for the articles specified in Article 4, (net weight.)
In no case shall these expenses be higher than those now paid. Consequently, no payment shall be made upon the postal sea routes on which nothing is paid at the present time.
In order to ascertain the weight of the correspondence forwarded in transit, whether in closed mails or in open mails, there shall be taken, at periods which shall be determined upon by common consent, the statistics of such correspondence during two weeks. Until revised, the result of that labor shall serve as the basis of the accounts of the Administrations between themselves.
Each Office may demand a revision,--
1st. In case of any important modification in the direction of the correspondence;
2d. At the expiration of a year after the date of the last account.
The provisions of the present Article are not applicable to the Indian mail, nor to the mails conveyed across the territory of the United States of America by the railways between New York and San Francisco. Those services shall continue to form the object of special arrangements between the Administrations concerned.

Arti cle XI.

Article XI.

Relations with Les relations des pays de 1'Union The relations of the countries of

countries foreign

to the Union, how avec des pays Strangers a celle-ci the Union with countries foreign

governed.

seront regies par les conventions to the Union shall be regulated by

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

583

particulieres qui existent actuellement ou qui seront conclues entre eux.
Les taxes a percevoir pour le. transport au-dela des limites de 1'Union seront determiudes par ces conventions; elles seront ajoutees, le cas eclffiant, a la taxe de 1'Union.
En conformity des dispositions de Particle 9, la taxe de 1'Union sera attribute de la maniere suivante:
1° L'Office expyditeur de 1'Uniou gardera en entier la taxe de 1'Union pour les correspondances affranchies a destination des pays ytrangers.
2° L'Office destinatairede 1'Union gardera en entier la taxe de 1'Union pour les correspondances non affranchies originaires des pays ytrangers.
3° L'Office de 1'Union qui echange des depeches closes avec des pays ytrangers gardera en entier la taxe de 1'Union pour les correspondances affranchies originaires des pays ytrangers et pour les correspondances non affranchies a destination des pays ytrangers.
Dans les cas designes sous les N0s1, 2 et 3, 1'Office qui echange les depeches n'a droit aucune bonification pour le transit. Dans tous les autres cas, les frais de transit seront payes d'aprys les dispositions de Fart. 10.

the separate conventions which now exist or which may be concluded between them.
The rates of postage chargeable for the conveyance beyond the limits of the Union shall be determined by those conventions; they shall be added, in such case, to the Union rate.
In conformity with the stipulations of Article 9, the Union rate shall be apportioned in the following manner:
1st. The despatchingOffice of the Union shall keep the whole of the Union rate for the prepaid correspondence addressed to foreign countries.
2d. The receiving Office of the Union shall keep the whole of the Union rate for the unpaid correspondence originating in foreign
countries. 3d. The Office of the Union which
exchanges closed mails with foreign countries shall keep the whole of the Union rate for the paid correspondence originating in foreign countries and for the unpaid correspondence addressed to foreign countries.
In the cases mentioned under the Nos. 1, 2, and 3, the Office which exchanges the mailsis not entitled to any payment for transit. In all the other cases the transit rates shall be paid according to the stipulations of Article 10.

Rates of postage beyond Union.
Apportionment of Union rate.
To the despatching Office.
To the receiving Office.
On closed mails with foreign countries.
No payment for transit in these cases.

Arti cle XII.

Arti cle XII.

Le service des lettres avec valeur declaree et celui des mandats de poste feront Pobjet d'arrangements ulterieurs entre les divers pays ou groupes de pays de 1'Union.

The exchange of letters with Exchange of value declared and of Post Office money orders, &c. money orders shall form the subject of ulterior arrangements between the various countries or groups of countries composing the Union.

Art icl e XIII.

Article XIII.

Les Administrations postales des divers pays qui composent PUniou sont compytentes pour arreter d'un commun accord, dans un reglement, toutes les mesures d'ordre et de detail necessaires en vue de Pexecution du present traity. Il
est entendu que les dispositions de

The Postal Administrations of the Detailed regulavarious countries composing the tions, how to be Union are competent to draw up, by made. common consent, in the form of detailed regulations, all the measures of order and detail necessary with a How modified. view to the execution of the pres-
ent treaty. It is understood that

584

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. OCT. 9, 1874.

ce reglement pourront toujoursetre modifies d'un common accord entre les Administrations de 1'Union.

Other regulations may be made.

Les difibrentes Administrations peuvent prendre entre elles les arrangements necessaires au sujet des questions qui ne concernent pas 1'ensemble de 1'Union, comme le reglement des rapports a la frontiere, la fixation de rayons limitropbes avec taxe reduite, les condi-
tions de l'echange des mandats de poste et des lettres avec valeur declaree, etc., etc.

the stipulations of these detailed regulations may always be modified by the common consent of the Administrations of the Union.
The several Administrations may make amongst themselves the necessary arrangements on the subject of questions which do not concern the Union generally; such as the regulations of exchange at the frontier, the determination of radii in adjacent countries within which a lower rate of postage may be taken, the conditions of the exchange of Post Office money orders, and of letters
with declared value, etc., etc.

Article XIV.

Article XIV.

Limit of control of this treaty.

Les stipulations du present traitb ne portent ni alteration a la legislation postale interne de chaque pays, ni restriction au droit des
parties contractantes de maintenir et de conclure des traites, ainsi que de maintenir et d'etablir des unions plus restreintes en vue d'une amelioration progressive des relations
postales.

The stipulations of the present treaty do not involve any alteration in the interior postal legislation of any country, nor any restriction of the right of the contracting
parties to maintain and to conclude treaties, as well as to maintain and establish more restricted unions with a view to a progressive improvement of postal relations.

Article XV.

Article XV.

Intern ational Office to be organized.

Il sera organise, sous le nom de Bureau international de 1'Union generate des postes, un office central qui fonctionnera sous la haute surveillance d'une Administration
postale designee par le Congres, et dont les frais seront supporths par toutes les Administrations des Etats contractants.

Duties of office.

Ce bureau sera charge de coordonner, de publier et de distribuer les renseignements de toute nature qui int6ressent le service international des postes, d'emettre, a la demande des parties en cause, un avis sur les questions litigieuses, d'instruire les demandes de modification au reglement d'ex6cution, de notifier les changements adoptes, de faciliter les operations de la comptabilith internationale, notamment dans les relations prhvues a Part. 10 ci-dessus et, en general, de
proceder aux etudes et aux travaux
dont il serait saisi dans 1'interet de 1'Union postale.

There shall be organized, under the name of the International Office of the General Postal Union, a central office, which shall be conducted under the surveillance of a Postal Administration to be chosen by the Congress, and the expenses of which shall be borne by all the Administrations of the contracting States.
This office shall be charged with the duty of collecting, publishing, and distributing information of every kind which concerns the international postal service; of giving, at the request of the parties concerned, an opinion upon questions in dispute; of making known proposals for modifying the detailed regulations; of giving notice
of alterations adopted; of facilitating operations relating to international accounts, especially in the cases referred to in Article 10 foregoing; and in general of considering and working out all questions
in the interest of the Postal Union.

TREATY-GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

585

Arti cle XVI.

Arti cle XVI.

En cas de dissentiment entre deux ou plusieurs rnembres de 1'Union relativeinent a 1'interpretation du present traitd, la question en litige devra etre regime par jugement arbitral ; a cet effet, chacune des Administrations en cause choisira un autre membre de 1'Union qui ne soit pas interesse dans 1'affaire.
La decision des arbitres sera donnee a la majority absolue des voix.
En cas de partage des voix, les arbitres choisiront, pour trancher le differend, une autre Administration egalement desinteressee dans le litige.

In case of disagreement between Settlement of two or more members of the Union disagreements. as to the interpretation of the present treaty, the question in dispute shall be decided by arbitration. To that end, each of the Administrations concerned shall choose another member of the Union not interested in the affair.

The decision of the arbitrators shall be given by an absolute majority of votes.
In case of an equality of votes the arbitrators shall choose, with the view of settling the difference, another Administration equally disinterested in the question in dispute.

Arbitrators. Umpire.

Arti cle XVII.
L'entrye dans 1'Union des pays d'outre-mer n'en faisant pas encore partie sera admise aux conditions suivantes :
1° Ils deposeront leur dyclaration entre les mains de 1'Administration chargee de la gestion du Bureau international de 1'Union.
2° Ils se soumettront aux stipulations du traite de 1'Union, sauf entente ulterieure ausujet des frais de transport maritime.
3° Leur adhysion ii 1'Uniou doit etre prycedee d'une entente entre les Administrations ayant des conventions postales ou des relations directes avec eux.
4° Pour amener cette entente, 1'Administration gerante convoquera, le cas echeant, une reunion des Administrations interessyes et de 1'Administration qui demande Faeces.
5° L'entente etablie 1'Administration gerante en avisera tous les rnembres de 1'Union generale des postes.
6° Si dans un delai de six semaines, & partir de la date de cette communication, des objections ne sont pas presentees, 1'adhesionseraconsideree comme accomplie et il en sera fait communication par 1'Administration gerante a 1'Administration adherente.--L'adhesion definitive sera constatee par un acte diplomatique entre le Gouvernement de 1'Administration gerante

Article XVII.

The entry into the Union of countries beyond sea not yet forming part of it, shall be effected on the following conditions:--
1st. They shall make their application to the Administration charged with the management of the International Cffice of the Union.
2d. They shall submit to the stipulations of the treaty of the Union, subject to an ulterior understanding on the subject of the cost of sea conveyance.
3d. Their adhesion to the Union must be preceded by an understanding between the Administrations having postal conventions or direct relations with them.
4th. In order to bring about this understanding, the managing Ad-
ministration shall convene, if there be occasion, a meeting of the Administrations interested, and of the Administration desiring admission.
5th. When the understanding has been arrived at, the managing Administration shall give notice of the same to all the members of the General Postal Union.
6th. If in a period of six weeks, counting from the date of that communication, no objections are presented, the adhesion shall be considered as accomplished, and notice thereof shall be given by the managing Administration to the Administration joining the
Union. The definitive adhesion shall be completed by a diplomatic act between the Government of

Foreign c o u ntries,how admitted to Union.
Application. A g r e e m ent to Union treaty. Precedent understanding. How b r o u ght about. Notice to be given. When considered accomplished.
How definitively completed.

586

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

et le Gouvernement de 1'Adminis- the managing Administration and

tration admise dans 1'Union.

the Government of the Administra-

tion admitted into the Union.

Arti cle XVIII.

Arti cle XVIII.

Congress to be Tons les trois ans au moins, un

held.

Congres de plenipotentiaries des

pays participant au traitb sera re-

uni en vu de perfectionner le systeme de 1'Union, d'y introduire les

ameliorations jugbes necessaries et de discuter les affaires communes.

Votes. Representation.

Chaque pays a une voix. Chaque pays peut se faire representer, soit par un ou par plusieurs
dblegubs, soit par la delegation d'un autre pays.
Toutefois, il est entendu que le delbgub ou les dblbgubs d'un pays ne pourront btre chargbs que de la representation de deux pays, y compris celui qu'ils representent.

Next meeting.

La prochaine reunion aura lieu a Paris en 1877.
Toutefois, 1'bpoque de cette reunion sera avanche, si la deman de en est faite par le tiers au moins des membres de 1'Union.

Every three years at least, a Congress of plenipotentiaries of the countries participating in the treaty shall be held with a view of perfecting the system of the Union, of introducing into it improvements found necessary, and of discussing
common affairs. Each country has one vote. Each country may be represented
either by one or several delegates, or by the delegation of another country.
Nevertheless, it is understood that the delegate or delegates of one country can be charged with the representation of two countries only, including the one they repre-
sent. The next meeting shall take
place at Paris, in 1877. Nevertheless, this meeting may
be held sooner, if a request to that effect be made by one-third at least of the members of the Union.

Artic le XIX.

Article XIX.

Commencejne n t and d u r a t ion of treaty.
Withdrawals.

Le prbsent traitb entrera en vi-
gueur le ler juillet 1875. Il est conclu pour trois ans a
partir de cette date. Passe ce terme,il sera considbrb comme indbfiniment prolongb, mais chaque partie contractante aura le droit de se retirer de 1'Union, moyennant un avertissement donnb une annbe a
1'avance.

The present treaty shall come into force on the 1st of July, 1875.
It is concluded for three years from that date. When that term shall have passed, it shall be con-
sidered as indefinitely prolonged, but each contracting party shall have the right to withdraw from the Union on giving notice one year in advance.

Arti cle XX.

Art icl e XX.

Inconsistent treaties abrogated.

Sont abrogbes, a partir du jour de la mise a exbcution du prbsent traitb, toutes les dispositions des traitbs spbciaux conclus entre les divers pays et Administrations, pour autant qu'elles ne seraient pas conciliables avec les termes du
prbsent traitb et sans prejudice des dispositions de 1'art. 14.

Ratification to be prompt.

Le prbsent traitb sera ratifie
aussitot que faire se pourra et, au plus tard, trois mois avant la date de sa mise a, exbcution. Les actes de ratification seront echanges a Berne.

After the date on which the present treaty comes into effect, all the stipulations of the special treaties concluded between the various countries and Administrations, in so far as they may be at variance with the terms of the present treaty, and without prejudice to the stipulations of Article 14, are abrogated.
The present treaty shall be ratified as soon as possible, and, at the latest, three months previous to the date on which it is to come into force. The acts of ratification shall be exchanged at Berne.

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

587

En foi de quoi les plenipotentiaires des Gouvernements des pays ci dessus enumyres 1'ont signe a Berne, le 9 Octobre 1874.
Pour les Etats-Unis d'Amyrique: Jose ph H. Black pan .

In faith of which the plenipotentiaries of the Governments of the countries above enumerated have signed it at Berne, the 9th of October, 1874.
For the United Statesof America:
Jose ph H. Black fan .

Pour 1'Allemagne:

For Germany:

Step ha n . Gun the r .

Ste pha n . Gunt he r .

Pour 1'Autriche: Le Baro n de Kolb ens tein er .

For Austria: Le Bar on de Kol ben ste ine r .

Pil hal .
Pour la Hongrie: M. Gerv ay . P. Heim .
Pour la Belgique:

Pilha l . For Hungary:
M. Gerv ay . P. Heim .
For Belgium :

Fassi au x .

Fassiau x .

VlNCHENT.
J. Gipk . Pour le Danemark:

Vinc hen t . J. Gife .
For Denmark:

Feng er .

Fen ge r .

Pour FEgypte: Muzzi Bey .
Pour 1'Espagne:

For Egypt: Muzzi Bey .
For Spain:

Ange l Man si .

Ange l Man si .

Emil io C. de Navas que s . Pour la France: (3 mai 1875,)

Emil io 0. de Nava sq Ces . For France: (May 3, 1875,)

B. d 'Harc ourt . Pour la Grande-Bretagne:

B. d 'Harc ourt . For Great Britain:

Wm . Jas . Page . Pour la Gr&ce:
A. Manso las . A. H. Bet ant .
Pour 1'Italie:

Wm . Jas . Pag e .
For Greece: A. Man so la s . A. H. Beta nt .
For Italy:

Tante sio . Pour le Luxembourg:

Tant esi o . For Luxemburg:

Von Roebe . Pour la Norvbge:
C. Oppen . Pour les Pays-Bas:
Hofs tede .

Von Roe be .
For Norway: C. Oppen .
For the Netherlands: Hofs ted e .

B. S WEERTS DE LANDAS WYBORGH. B. SWEERTS DE LANDASWYBORGH.

Pour le Portugal:

For Portugal:

Edua rdo Less a .

Edu ard o Less a .

Pour la Roumanie:

For Roumania:

Geo rge F. Laho vari .

Geor ge F. Lah ov ari .

Pour la Russie:

For Russia:

Baro n Vel ho . Georg es Pog ge npo hl .
Pour la Serbie: Mlad en Z. Rad ojk ov itc h .
Pour la Subde: W. Roos.
Pour la Suisse:

Baron Velh o .
Georg es Pogge npo hl .
For Servia: Mla de n Z. Radojk ovi tch .
For Sweden: W. Roos.
For Switzerland:

Euge ne Bore l .
Naeff . Dr . J. Hee r .
Pour la Turquie Yanco Macrid i.

Eug en e Borel .
N AEFF.
Dr . J. Hee r . For Turkey:
Yanco Macri di .

Signatures.

588

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

Ratification.

Having examined and considered the provisions of the Treaty concerning the formation of a General Postal Union signed at Berne, Switzerland, on the 9th of October, A. D. 1874, a certified copy of which is

hereunto annexed, the same is by me, in virtue of the powers vested in the Postmaster-General by law, hereby ratified and approved, by and

with the advice and consent of the President of the United States.

In witness whereof I have caused the seal of the Post-Office Depart-

ment of the United States to be hereto affixed with my signature this

eighth day of March, 1875.

[SEAL.]

MARSHALL JEWELL,

Postmaster- General.

Approval.

I hereby approve the above-mentioned Treaty, and in testimony

thereof I have caused the seal of the United States to be affixed hereto.

[sea l .]

U. S. GRANT.

By the President: Hami lto n Fish , Secretary of State.
Wash ing to n , March 8, 1875.

Final protocol. Protocols Final Relatif au Traite. Final Protocol Relative to the Treaty.

In case French Government floes not agree--effect.
Signatures.

Les soussignbs plenipotentiaries des Gouvernements des pays qui out signb aujourd'hui le traitb concernant la crbation d'une Union gbnbrale ties Postes, sont convenus de ce qui suit:
Dansle cas ou le Gouvernement
frangais, qui s'est reserve le protocole ouvert et qui figure en consequence au nombre des parties contractantes au traitb sans y avoir encore donnb son adhbsion, ne se dbciderait pas a le signer, ce traitb n'en sera pas moins dbfinitif et obligatoire pour toutes les autres parties contractantes dont les reprbsentants Font signb aujourd'hui.
En foi de quoi les plenipotentiaires ci dessous out dressb le prbsent protocole final qui aura la meme force et la meme valeur que si les dispositions qu'il contient btaient insbrbes dans le traitb luinffime, et ils Pont signb en un exemplaire qui restera dbposb aux
archives du Gouvernement de la Confbdbration fcuisse et dont une copie sera remise chaque partie.
Berne, Octobre 9, 1874.

The undersigned plenipotentiaries of the Governments of the countries which have to-day signed the treaty concerning the formation of a General Postal Union, have agreed as follows:
In case the French Government, which has reserved to itself the open protocol, and which appears in consequence in the number of the contracting parties to the treaty without having yet given to it its adherence, should decide not to sign it, this treaty shall be no less definitive and obligatory for all the other contracting parties whose representatives have signed it to-day.
In faith of which the undersigned
plenipotentiaries have prepared the present final protocol, which shall have the same force and value as if the provisions it contains were inserted in the treaty itself, and they have signed one copy of it, which shall remain in the archives of the Government of the Swiss Confederation, and a copy of which shall be given to each party.
Berne, October 9,1874.

Pour 1'Allemagne: Ste pha n . Gun the r .
Pour 1'Autriche: Le Baro n de Kolb ens te ine r . Pilha l .
Pour la Hongrie: M. Gerv ay . P. Hei m .

For Germany: Ste phan . Gun th er .
For Austria: Le Baro n de Kolb ens tein er .
PlLHAL.
For Hungary: M. Gerva y . P. Hei m .

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. OCT. 9, 1874.

589

Pour la Belgique: Fassia ux .

For Belgium : Fass iau x .

VlNCHENT.
J. Gife . Pour le Danemark:
Fen ge r . Pour 1'Egypte:
Muzzi Bey . Pour 1'Espagne:
Ange l Mans i. Emil io 0. de Nav as qu es .
Pour les Etats-Unis d'Amyrique: Jose ph H. Black fan .
Pour la Grande-Bretagne: W. J. Pag e .
Pour la Grbce: A. Mans ola s . A. H. Betan t .
Pour 1'Italie: Tant esi o .
Pour le Luxembourg:
V. de Roe be . Pour la Norvbge:
0. Oppen . Pour les Pays-Bas:
Hofs ted e . B. Swee rts de Lan das Wy -
BORGH.

VlNCHENT.
J. Gif e . For Denmark:
Fen ge r . For Egypt:
Muzzi Bey . For Spain:
Ange l Man si .
Emil io G. de Nava sq ues . For the United States of America:
Jose ph H. Bla ckfa n . For Great Britain i
W. J. Page . For Greece:
A. Mans ola s . A. H. Bet an t . ·
For Italy: Tan te sio .
For Luxemburg:
V. de Roe be . For Norway :
0. Oppen . For the Netherlands:
Hofst ede . B. Swee rts de Lan d as Wy -
bor gh .

Pour le Portugal: Edu ard o Les sa .
Pour la Roumanie: Geo rge F. Lah ov ari .
Pour la Russie:
Baro n Velh o . Geor ges Pogge npo hl .
Pour la Serbie: Mlad en Z. Rad ojk ov it ch .
Pour la Suckle: W. Roos.
Pour la Suisse:
Eug Lne Bore l . Nae ff . Dr . J. Heer .
Pour la Turquie: Yanco Macrid i.

For Portugal:
Eduar do Less a . For Ron mania:
Geo rge F. Lah ov ari . For Russia:
Baro n Vel ho . Geor ges Pogge npo hl .
For Servia: Mlad en Z. Rad oj ko vi tch .
For Sweden: W. Roos.
For Switzerland :
Eug Lne Borel .
Nae ff . Dr . J. Heer :
For Turkey: Yanco Macri di .

Having examined and considered the final protocol relative to the Treaty concerning the formation of a General Postal Union, signed at
Berne, October 9, 1874, the same is by me, in virtue of the powers vested in the Postmaster-General by law, hereby ratified and approved, by and with the advice and consent of the President of the United States.
In witness whereof I have caused the seal of the Post-Office Department of the United States to be hereto affixed with my signature this

21st dav of May, 1875. [sea l .]

MARSHALL JEWELL, Postmaster- General.

I hereby approve the above-mentioned protocol, and in testimony

thereof I have caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

[sea l .]

U. S. GRANT.

By the President:

Hami lto n Fish , Secretary of State.

Wash ing to n , May 21, 1875.

Ratification. Approval.

590

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

Prochs-verbal. Exchange of ratifications.
Conditional adhesion of France.
As to commencement.
As to pay for territorial transit.

Le delai pour 1'bchange des ratifications ayant btb prorogb d'un commun accord, les soussignbs, plbnipotentiaires des Gouvernements des pays qui out conclu a Berne, le 9 Octobre 1874, le Traitb concernant la creation d'une Union gbnbrale des Postes, se sont rbunis aujourd'hui a Berne pour proceder a 1'bchange des ratifications de ce Traitb.
Le plbnipotentiaire du Gouvernement frangais, Monsieur le comte d'Harcourt, a dbclarb que la France donne son adhbsion au Traitb, sauf approbation de 1'Assemblee nationale et moyennant les conditions et reserves suivantes:
1° Cette convention pourra n'entrer en vigueur en ce qui concerne
la France qu'a partir du ler Janvier 1876;
2° la bonification a payer pour le transit territorial sera rbglee d'apres le parcours rbel;

As to modifications of tariff.
M o d i f i cations agreed to.
M o d i f i c ation amended and agreed to.
Amended modification as to territorial transit.

3° il ne pourra etre apportb aucune modification en ce qui touche les tarifs inscrits dans le Traitb du 9 Octobre 1874, si ce n'est a 1'unanimitb des voix des pays de 1'Union reprbsentbs au Congres.
En virtu des pouvoirs spbciaux qui leur ont btb donnbs a cet effet et qu'ils se sont communiques, les plbnipotentiaires soussignbs ont dbclarb, au nom de leurs Gouvernements respectifs, consentir les conditions et reserves Nos 1 et 3 ci-dessus.
La reserve sous N° 2 a bgalement btb consentie, avec la redaction suivante, proposbe par le Gouvernement russe et laquelle Monsieur le comte d'Harcourt, au nom du Gouvernement frangais, a dbclarb se rallier:
"2° La bonification a payer pour
le transit territorial sera rbglbe d'apres le parcours rbel, mais aux memes taxes quecelles btablies par le Traitb constitutif de 1'Union gbnbrale des Postes."

Treaty completed.

Apresces prbliminaires, le Traitb signb a Berne le 9 Octobre 1874 a btb complete par 1'apposition de la signature du delegue de la France, et un exemplaire original revetu des signatures de toutes parties en a btb remis, seance tenante, au

The delay in the exchange of the ratifications having been prolonged by common consent, the undersigned, plenipotentiaries of the Governments of the countries which concluded at Berne, the 9th October, 1874, the . Treaty concerning the formation of a general Postal Union, met at Berne this day in order to exchange the ratifications of the said Treaty.
The plenipotentiary of the French Government, Count d'Harcourt, announced that France gives its adhesion to the Treaty, subject to the approval of the National Assembly, upon the following conditions and with the following reservations :
1st. This convention may enter into effect, so far as France is concerned, as late as the 1st of January, 1876;
2d. The compensation to be paid for territorial transit shall be adjusted according to the actual route traversed;
3d. There shall be no modification made in relation to the tariffs established in the Treaty of the 9th October, 1874, except by the unanimous vote of the countries of the Union represented at the Congress.
By virtue of the special powers given them for the purpose and which they have communicated, the undersigned plenipotentiaries have announced, in the name of their respective Governments, their assent to the conditions and reservations Nos. 1 and 3 above.
The reservation under No. 2 was also agreed to, with the following wording, proposed by the Government of Russia and accepted in the name of the French Government by Count d'Harcourt:
" 2d. The compensation to be paid for territorial transit shall be adjusted according to the actual route traversed, but at the same rates as those established by the Treaty constituting the general Postal Union."
After these preliminaries, the Treaty signed at Berne, October 9, 1874, was completed by the affixing of the signature of the delegate of France, and an original copy bearing the signatures of all the parties was presented pending the session.

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

591

plenipotentiaire de chacun des 22 pays qui composent 1'Uuiou.
Puis il a etc procede a 1'examen des actes de ratification. Les instruments des actes de ratification de tous les pays dont les delegues ont signe le Traite, a Berne le 9 Octobre 1874, savoir de 1'Allemagne, de 1'Autriche-Hongrie, de la Belgique, du Danemark, de 1'Egypte, de 1'Espagne, des EtatsUnis d'Amerique, de la GrandeBretagne, de la Grece, de 1'Italie, du Luxembourg, des Pays-Bas, du Portugal, de la Roumanie, de la Russie, de la Serbie, de la Suede et de la Norvege, de la Suisse et de la Turquie, ont ete trouves en bonne et due forme, et, conformernent a ce qui a ete con ven u entre tous les hauts Gouvernements contractants, ils demeureront deposes dans les archives de la Confederation suisse.
En ce qui concerne I'acte de ratification de la France, qui ne pourra etre depose qu'apres que le Traite aura regu 1'approbation de 1'Assemblee nationale, il a ete convenu, d'un commun accord, que cet acte sera regu par le Conseil federal suisse, qui dounera avis de cette remise aux autres parties contractantes.
En foi de quoi, les soussignes ont dressd le present proces-verbal, qu'ils ont revetu de leurs signatures.
Fait a Berne, le 3 Mai, 1875, en 21 expeditions, dont une restera deposee dans les archives de la Confederation suisse, pour accompagner les instruments des actes de ratification.

to the plenipotentiary of each of the 22 countries which form the Union.
The acts of ratification were then examined. The instruments of the acts of ratification of all the countries, the delegates from which signed the Treaty at Berne, the 9th October, 1874, viz : Germany, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Denmark, Egypt, Spain, the United States of America, Great Britain, Greece, Italy, Luxemburg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Roumania, Russia, Servia, Sweden and Norway, Switzerland, and Turkey, were found in good and due form, and in conformity to the agreement between all the high contracting Governments, they will remain deposited in the archives of the Swiss Confederation.

Acts of ratification examined.
Found correct. Where deposited.

In relation to the act of ratification of France, which can only be deposited after the Treaty has received the approval of the National Assembly, it was agreed by common consent, that this act should be received by the Swiss Federal Council, which shall give notice of its remission to the other contracting parties.
In testimony of which the undersigned have prepared the present proces-verbal, and have appended their signatures thereto.
Done at Berne, the 3d May, 1875, in 21 copies, one of which shall remain placed in the archives of the Swiss Confederation, to accompany the instruments of the acts of ratification.

French act of ratification.
Notice of its remission to be given.
Signatures.

Pour les Etats-Unis d'Amerique : Hora ce Rubl ee .
Pour 1'Allemagne: Gene ral de Roed er .
Pour 1'Autriche et la Hongrie :
Otte nfe ls . Pour la Belgique:
Hube rt Dole z . Pour le Danemark:
Gal iffe . Pour 1'Bgypte:
Muzzi Bey . Pour 1'Espagne:
Le Vicom pt e de Manz ane ra . Pour la France:
B. d 'Harc ourt .

For the United States ofAmerica: Horace Ruble e .
For Germany : Gen era l de Roe de r .
For Austria and Hungary : Otte nfe ls .
For Belgium :
Hube rt Dole z . For Denmark:
Gal iff e . For Egypt:
Muzz i Bey . For Spain :
Le Vicom pt e de Manza nera . For France:
B. d 'Harco urt .

592

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874,

Pour la GrandeBretague : Alan Macle an .
Pour la Grece: A. H. Bet an t .
Pour 1'Italie: Mele gari .
Pour le Luxembourg: V. de Roebe .
Pour les Pays-Bas: J. G. Sut er -Vermeu len .
Pour le Portugal: Le Comte da s Alca ^ov as D.
Lui z . Pour la Roumanie: Gte . Vran as . Pour la Russie: M. Gort cii aco w , Pour la Serbie:
R. ZUKITCH.
Pour la Suede et la Norvbge : A. M. DE SCHAECK.
Pour la Suisse: Sche rer . Eug Lne Bore l .
Pour la Turquie: Yan co Macr idi .

For Great Britain: Ala n Maclea n .
For Greece: A. H. Betan t .
For Italy:
Mele ga ri . For Luxemburg.:
V. de Roebe . For the Netherlands:
J. G. Sut er -Verme ule n . For Portugal:
Le Comt e da s ALCACOVAS D Luiz. For Roumania:
Cte . Vrana s . For Russia :
M. Gortc iia cow . For Ser via:
R. ZUKITCH.
For Sweden and Norway : A. M. de Schae ck .
For Switzerland: Schere r . Eug Lne Bore l .
For Turkey: Yanco Macri di .

Detailed regulations for the Execution of the Treaty concerning the formation of a General Postal Union, concluded at Berne, October 9, 1874.

[Note .--These detailed regulations, as signed, were in the French language only. The English translation has been added in Washington.]

Detailed regula- REgle men t de det ail et

tions.

d 'ord re pour 1'exbcution du

traitb concernant la crbation d'une Union gbnbrale des Postes, conclu a Berne, le 9 Octobre 1874.

Det ail ed Regul ati ons for the execution of the Treaty concerning the formation of a General Postal Union, concluded at Berne, the 9th of October, 1874.

Preliminary.

Les soussignbs, vu 1'article 13 du traitb concernant la crbation d'une Union gbnbrale des Postes, du 9 Octobre 1874, ont, au nom
de leurs Administrations fespectives, arretb d'un commun accord les mesures suivantes, pour assurer 1'exbcution du dit traitb:

The undersigned, with reference to Article 13 of the Treaty of the 9th October, 1874, concerning the formation of a General Postal Union,
have, in the name of their respective Administrations, by common consent, agreed upon the following measures for ensuring the execution of the said treaty:

I.

I.

Taxes des correspondances dans Bates of Postage within the Union V Union.

Rates of postage within the Union.

Les Administrations faisant partie de 1'Union se communiqueront rbciproquement les taxes qu'elles auront adoptees en conformitb des articles 3, 4 et 5 du traitb pour les lettres affranchies et non af-

The Administrations composing the Union shall communicate reciprocally the rates of postage which they shall have adopted in conformity with Articles 3, 4, and 5 of the treaty, for paid and unpaid

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

593

franchies et pour les autres objets affraucbis originaires et destination de 1'Union, ainsi que les prix de transport applicables aux services territoriaux et maritimes de l'interieur de 1'Union, en vertu des § § 6, 7, 9 et 10 de I'art. 10 du traits. Toute modification apportee ulterieurement dans la fixation de ces taxes ou prix devra etre notifiee sans retard.

letters, and for the other paid articles originating in and addressed to the Union, as well as the transit rates applicable to the land and sea services within the Union, by virtue of §§ 6, 7, 9, and 10 of Article 10 of the treaty. Notice shall be given, without delay, of every modification adopted hereafter in
the amount of those rates.

II.

II.

Echange en depeches closes.

Exchange in Closed Mails.

L'echange des correspondances en depeches closes entre les Administrations de 1'Union sera regle d'un commun accord et selon les necessity's du service entre les Administrations en cause. S'il s'agit d'un change faire par 1'entremise d'un ou de plusieurs pays tiers,
les Administrations de ces pays devront en etre prevenues en temps opportun.

The exchange of correspondence Exchange in in closed mails between the Admin- closed mails. istrations of the Union shall be regulated by common consent and ac-
cording to the necessities of the service between the Administrations concerned. If an exchange of mails should take place through the medium of one or of several other countries, due notice shall be given to the Administrations of
those countries.

III.

III.

Application des timbres.

Application of the Stamps.

1) Les correspondances a echanger reciproquement seront frappees, la partie superieure de la suscription, d'un timbre indiquant le lieu d'origine et la date du depot a la poste.
2) Les correspondances non affranchies ou insuffisamment affranchies seront en outre frappees du timbre "T" (Taxe a payer) dont 1'application incombera a 1'office du pays d'origine.
3) Les objets recommandes porteront 1'empreinte du timbre special adopts pour les envois de 1'espece par le pays d'origine.
4) Les diverses Administrations se communiqueront, par 1'entremise du Bureau international, une empreinte de ce dernier timbre.
5) Tout objet de correspondance ne portant pas le timbre "T" sera considere comme affranchi jusqu'a destination et traite en consequence, sauf erreur evidente.
xtx ----- 38

1. The correspondence to be reciprocally exchanged shall be impressed, on the upper part of the address, with a stamp indicating the place of origin and the date of posting.
2. Unpaid or insufficiently paid correspondence shall, in addition, be impressed with the stamp "T" (tax to be paid), the application of which shall devolve upon the office of the country of origin.
3. Registered articles shall bear the impression of the special stamp used for articles of a like nature in the country where they originate.
4. The several Administrations shall forward to each other, through the medium of the International Office, an impression of the stamp last mentioned.
5. Every article of correspondence which does not bear the stamp "T" shall be considered as paid to destination and treated accordingly, unless there be an obvious error,

Marking stamps.
On unpaid, &c., matter.
On registered articles.
Impressio n s of registered stamp to be exchanged.
Correspondence, when not marked, how treated.

594

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

IV.

IV.

Indication du nombre de ports. Indication of the Number of Rates.

Number of rates, how indicated.
Except when fully paid.

1) Lorsqu'une lettre ou tout autre objet de correspondance sera passible, en raison de son poids, de plus d'un port simple, 1'Office-expbditeur indiquera a 1'angle gauche supbrieur de la suscription, en chiffres ordinaries, le nombre de ports pergus ou a percevoir.
2) Cette mesure ne sera pas de rigueur pour les correspondances dument affranchies a destination d'un pays de 1'Union.

1. When a letter or other article of correspondence shall be liable, by reason of its weight, to more than a single rate of postage, the despatching office shall indicate in the upper
left-hand corner of the address, in ordinary figures, the number of rates paid, or to be paid.
2. This regulation shall not be
obligatory in the case of correspondence fully prepaid addressed to a country of the Union.

V.

V.

Affranchissement insuffisant.

Insufficient prepayment, how indicated.
When valueless stamps are used.
Deficient p o s tage, how charged.
In case of fractions.

1) Lorsqu'un objet sera insuffisamment affranchi au moyen de timbres-poste, 1'Office expbditeur devra indiquer en chiffres noirs,
apposbs a c6tb des timbres-poste, la valeur totale de ceux-ci. Cette valeur sera exprimbe en francs et centimes.
2) Dans le cas ou il aurait btb fait usage de timbres-poste non valables dans le pays d'origine, il n'en sera tenu aucun compte. Cette circonstance sera indiqube par le chiffre zero "0" placb a cote des timbres-poste.
3) L'Office du lieu de destination frappera les objets insuffisamment affranchis du complbment de la taxe due, a concurrence du prix d'une lettre non affranchie du meme poids. Au besoin on forcera les fractions jusqu'a 1'unitb monetaire de perception employ be dans le pays de destination.

Insufficient Prepayment.
1. When an article shall be insufficiently prepaid by means of postage stamps, the despatching office shall indicate in black figures, placed by the side of the postage stamps, their total value. That value shall be expressed in francs and centimes.
2. In case postage stamps may be used which are not of any value in the country of origin, no account shall be taken of them. This fact shall be indicated by the figure zero " 0 " placed by the side of the postage stamps.
3. The office of the country of destination shall charge the insufficiently paid articles with the amount of the deficient postage, calculated at the rate of au unpaid letter of the same weight. In case of need, fractions may be raised to the monetary unit of charge in use in the country of destination.

VI.

VI.

Feuilles d'avis.

Letter Bills.

Letter bills. What not to contain.

1) Les feuilles d'avis pour les echanges directs entre deux Administrations seront conformes au modele joint au prbsent reglement, sub lit. A.
2) Il ne sera fait aucune mention
dans la feuille d'avis des correspondances de toute nature, affranchies,
non affranchies ou insuffisamment affranchies, originaires d'un pays de 1'Union et a destination d'un autre de ces pays, non plus que des

1. The letter bills for the direct exchanges between two Administrations shall be in conformity with the specimen under letter A. appended
to the present regulations. 2. No mention shall be made in
the letter bill of the correspondence of any kind, whether paid, unpaid, or insufficiently paid, originating in one country of the Union and addressed to another of those countries, nor of the paid correspond-

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

595 '

correspondances affranchies de 1'etranger a destination de 1'Union ou non affranchies de 1'Union a destination de I'etranger.
3) Pour les autres correspondances, on mentionnera:
1° Au tableau N° I le montant total des taxes etrangferes sur les correspondances non affranchies et le montant des debours sur les correspondances reexpediees dont il devra etre tenu compte a 1'Office envoyeur.
2° Au tableau N° II le montant total des taxes et, le cas 6ch6ant, des droits de recom mandation (Strangers, sur les correspondances affranchies, qui seront a bonifier a 1'Office destinataire ou de sortie de 1'Union.
4) Les taxes ou debours a inscrire au tableau N° I seront indiques sur chaque objet au crayon bleu, a I'angle gauche inffirieur de 1'adresse.
5) Les taxes et droits & porter en compte au tableau N° II seront inscrits au crayon rouge sur chaque objet, a I'angle gauche inferieur de 1'adresse.
6) Au tableau N° III on inscrira, avec les details que ce tableau comporte, les depeches closes en transit qui accompagnent les envois directs.
7) Les objets recommandes seront inscrits au tableau N IV de la feuille d'avis avec les details, suivants: le nom du bureau d'origine, le nom du destinataire et le lieu de destination ou settlement le nom du bureau d'origine et le numero d'inscription de 1'objet a ce bureau, le montant du port et des droits de recommandation strangers a bonifier, le cas echeant, 1'Office destinataire ou de sortie de 1'Union.
8) Lorsque le nombre d'objets recommandes a expddier habituellement d'un bureau d'echange a un autre le comportera, il pourra etre introduit une liste speciale et detach ee pour remplacer le tableau N° IV de la feuille d'avis.
9) Les taxes, bonifications et debours seront exprinffis en francs et centimes.
10) Si, pour faciliter les operations de compte, il etaitjuge necessaire dans certaines relations de creer des rubriques nouvelles aux

ence from foreign countries addressed to the Union, or of the unpaid correspondence from the Union addressed to foreign countries.
3. As regards other correspondence, there shall be entered,--
1st. Under table No. I., the total amount of the foreign postages due on the unpaid correspondence, and the amount of the claims on the correspondence retransmitted, for which credit will have to be given to the despatching Office.
2nd._UndertableNo. II.,thetotal amount of the postages, and, when necessary, the foreign fees for registration, upon the paid correspondence, which will have to be credited to the Office of destination, or to the furthest Office of the Union.
4. The postages or claims to be entered in table No. I. shall be indicated upon each article, in blue pencil, at the lower left-hand corner of the address.
5. The postage and fees to be brought to account under table No. II. shall be indicated on each article, in red pencil, at the lower left-hand corner of the address.
6. In table No. III. shall be entered, with such details as this table requires, the closed mails in transit which accompany the direct mails.
7. The registered correspondence shall be entered in table No. IV. of the letter bill, with the following details: the name of the office of origin, the name of the addressee and the place of destination, or simply the name of the office of origin and the number given to the
article at that office; the amount of the postage and the foreign registration fees to be credited, when necessary, to the Office of destination or the furthest Office of the Union.
8. When the number of registered articles usually sent from one office of exchange to another shall require it, a special and separate list shall be used to take the place of table No. IV. of the letter bill.

Entries under table I.
Entries under table II.
How indicated in table I.
How indicated in table II.
Entries in table HI.
Entries in table IV.
Special list of registered articles, when required.

9. The amount of postages, cred- Postages, how its, and debits shall be expressed expressed. in francs and centimes.
10. If, in order to facilitate oper- Modifications unations of account, if should be der tables I and II. deemed necessary in certain cases to make new headings under tables

596

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

tableaux N°3 1 et II de la feuille d'avis, la mesure pourra etre introduite apres une entente entre les Administrations interessees. Le cas bcbbant, les modeles de comptes seront mis en rapport avec la contexture des feuilles d'avis.

Nos. I. and II. of the letter bill, the necessary steps may be taken after an understanding between the Administrations concerned. In such
case, the forms of accounts shall be made to correspond with the wording of the letter bills.

VII.

VII.

Expedition d'objets recommandes.

Despatch of registered Correspondence.

Registered correspondence, how enclosed.
Where placed.

1) Les objets recommandbs seront rbunis en un paquet distinct, qui devra etre convenablement enveloppb et cacbetb de maniere a en preserver le contenu.
2) Ce paquet, entourb de la feuille d'avis, sera placb au centre de la
dbpecbe.

1. The registered correspondence shall be enclosed in a separate packet, which must be suitably made up and sealed so as to preserve its contents.
2. This packet, with the letter bill round it, shall be placed in the centre of the mail.

VIII.

VIII.

Confection des depeches.

Making up of the Mails.

Making up mails.

1) Toute depeche bchangbe entre des bureaux de 1'Union, apres avoir btb ficelbe intbrieuremen t, devra etre enveloppbe de papier fort en quantity suffisante pour bviter toute dbtbrioration du contenu, puis ficelbe
extbrieurement et cachetbe a la cire ou au moyen d'un cacbet en papier
gommb avec 1'empreinte du cachet du bureau. Elle sera munie d'une suscription imprimbe portant en petits caracteres le nom du bureau expediteur et en caracteres plus forts le nom du bureau destinataire: "de . . . ." "pour . . . ."

When to be en- 2) Si le volume de la depecbe le closed in bags. comporte, elle devra etre renfermee

dans un sac convenablement fermb

et cachetb.

Bags to be re- 3) Les sacs devront btre renvoybs

turned.

au bureau expbditeur par le pro-

chain courrier.

1. Every mail exchanged between offices of the Union, after having been first tied with string, must be enclosed in strong paper of sufficient quantity to prevent damage to the contents, then tied again with string on the outside, and sealed with wax or fastened by means of a gummed paper label bearing an impression of the seal of the office. The mail must be furnished with a printed address bearing in small characters the name of the despatching office, and in large characters the name of the officeof destination: "From . . . ." "For . . . ."
2. If the size of the mail should admit, it must be enclosed in a bag properly closed and sealed.
3. The bags must be returned to the despatching office by the next mail.

IX.

IX.

Verification des depeches.

Verification of the Mails.

Verifica t i o n of mails, comparing with letter bill.

1) Le bureau d'bchange qui recevra une dbpbche constatera en premier lieu si les inscriptions sur la feuille d'avis (dbbours, bonifications, dbpbches closes en transit, objets recommandbs) sont exactes.

1. The exchanging office which shall receive a mail shall, in the first place, ascertain whether the entries in the letter bill (debits,
credits, closed mails in transit, registered articles) are correct.

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

597

2) S'il reconnait des erreurs ou des omissions, il opere immediatement les rectifications nbcessaires sur les feuilles ou listes, en ayant soin de differ les indications erronees d'un trait de plume, de maniere a pouvoir reconnoitre les inscriptions primitives.
3) Ces rectifications devront s'operer par le concours de deux agents. A moins d'une erreur evidente, elles prevaudront sur la declaration originale.
4) Un bulletin de verification, conforme au modele ci-annexb, sub lit. B, sera dresse par le bureau destinataire et envoye sans delai, sous recommandation d'office, au bureau expbditeur.
5) Celui-ci, apres examen, le renverra avec ses observations, s'il y a lieu.
6) En cas de manque d'une dbpeche, d'un objet recommandb ou de la feuille d'avis, le fait sera constatb immbdiatement dans la forme voulue par deux agents du bureau d'echange destinataire, etporte a la connaissance du bureau d'echange expbditeur, au moyen du bulletin de vbrification; et, si le cas le comporte, celui-ci devra en outre etre avise par tblbgramme.
7) Dans le cas oil le bureau destinataire n'aurait pas fait parvenir par le premier courrier au bureau expbditeur un bulletin de verification constatant des erreurs ou des irrbgularitbs quelconques, 1'absence de ce document vaudra comme accuse de reception de la depeche et de son contenu jusqu'a preuve du contraire.
X.

2. If it discovers errors or omis- C o rre ction of sions, it shall immediately make errors. the necessary corrections on the letter bills or lists, taking care to strike out the erroneous entries with a pen, in such a manner as to let the original entries be seen.

3. These corrections shall be made by two officers. Except in the case of an obvious error, they
shall be accepted in preference to the original statement.
4. A note of verification, in conformity with the specimen under letter B. hereto annexed, shall be prepared by the receiving office, and sent without delay, officially registered, to the despatching office.
5. The latter, after examination, shall return it with any observations to which it may give rise.
6. In case of the failure of a mail, of a registered article, or of a letter, bill, the circumstance shall be immediately recorded in the manner agreed upon by two officers of the receiving office, and reported to the despatching office by means of the note of verification; and, if needful, the latter shall also be advised thereof by telegram.
7. In case the receiving office shall not have forwarded by the first mail to the despatching office a note of verification, reporting errors or irregularities of any kind, the absence of that document shall be regarded as evidence of the due receipt of the mail and of its contents, until proof to the contrary.

How corrected. Note of verification to be sent. To be returned. Notification of failure of mail,&c.
Non-receipt of notification, effect of.

X.

Objets recommandes. Conditions de Registered Articles.--Conditions as

forme et de fermeture.

to Form and Manner of Fastening.

Aucune condition de forme ou de fermeture n'est exigbe pour les objets recommandbs. Chaque Office aura la faculty d'appliquer a ces envois les regies btablies dans son service interieur.

XI. Journaux et imprimes.
de forme.

Conditions

No stipulation is insisted upon Registered artias to the form or manner of fasten- cles, form, fastening of registered articles. Each ing. Office shall have the right to apply to such description of correspondence the regulations in force in its interior service. ·
XL
Newspapers and Printed Papers.-- Conditions as to Form.

1) Pour jouir de la modbration 1. In order to enjoy the reduced Newspapers,&c., de port qui leur est attribube par postage extended to them by Ar- form.

598

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

Not to bear marks, Ac., except.
Proofs of printing and music.
Circulars, &c. Books.

Particle 4 du traite, les livres, les journaux, les imprimis et les autres objets assimiles devront etre places sous bande ou dans une enveloppe ouverte, ou bien supplement plies de maniere 4 pouvoir etre facilement verifies, et, sanf les exceptions suivantes, ils ne pourront contenir aucune ecriture, cbiffre ou signe quelconque fait 4 la main.
2) Les epreuves d'imprimerie ou de compositions musicales pourront porter des corrections 4 la plume se rapportant exclusivement au texte ou 4 la confection de l'ouvrage. Il sera permis d'y annexer les manuscrits.
3) Les circulaires, avis, etc., pourront etre revetus de la signature de 1'envoyeuravec sa quality et porter Findication du lieu d'origine et de la date d'envoi.
4) Les livres seront admis avec une dedicace ou un hommage de l'auteur, inscrits a la main.

Marked passages. Stock and share lists. Other additions.
When to bear letter postage.

5) Il sera permis de marquer d'un simple trait les passages du texte sur lesquels on desire appeler Pattention.
6) Les cotes et prix courants de bourses ou de marches imprimis, lithographies ou autographies pourront etre admis avec des prix ajoutes a la main on au moyen d'une impression quelconque.
7) Il ne sera admis aucune autre addition faite 4 la main, pas plus que celles produites au moyen de
caracteres typographiques, lorsque celles-ci auraient pour effet d'enlever 4 1'imprime son caractere de generalite.
8) Les objets susmentionnes qui ne reuniraient pas les conditions requises ci-dessus seront considers comme lettres non affranchies et taxes en consequence, a Pexception seulement des journaux et des imprimes, tels que les circulaires, les avis, etc., auxquels il ne sera pas donn6 cours, le cas echeant.

ticle 4 of the treaty, books, newspapers, printed papers and other similar articles must be placed under band, or in an envelope, open, or simply folded so as to admit of their being easily examined; and, except in the following particulars, they must contain no manuscript writing, figure, or mark whatever.
2. Proofs of printing or of music may bear corrections, made with a pen, relating exclusively to the text or to the execution of the work. It shall be allowable to annex the manuscripts to them.
3. Circulars, notices, etc., may bear the signature of the sender, with his trade or profession, and may also indicate the place of origin and the date.
4. Books shall be admitted with a manuscript dedication or a complimentary inscription from the author.
5. It shall be permitted to mark with a simple stroke the passages in the text to which it is desired to call attention.
6. Printed, lithographed, or autographed stock and share lists, prices current, and market reports shall be admitted with the prices added in writing or by means of any impression whatever.
7. There shall not be admitted any other manuscript additions, nor even those produced by means of typographical characters, if the latter tend to take from the packet its general character.
8. Such of the above-mentioned articles as shall not fulfil the foregoing conditions shall be considered as unpaid letters and charged accordingly, with the sole exception of newspapers and printed papers, such as circulars, notices, etc., which shall not be forwarded in such cases.

XII.

XII.

Echantillons. Conditions de forme. Patterns of Merchandise.--Conditions of Form. .

Samples of mer- 1) Les echantillons de marchan- 1. Patterns of merchandise shall chandise ; form. dises ne seront admis 4 beneticier only be admitted to the benefit of
de la moderation de port qui leur the reduced postage which is ex-

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

599

est attribute par Particle 4 du traits que sous les conditions suivantes:
2) Ils devront etre places dans des sacs, des boites ou des enveloppes mobiles, de manibre 4 permettre une facile verification.
3) Us ne pourront avoir aucune valeur marchande, ni porter aucune ecriture 4 la main que le nom ou la raison sociale de Pen voyeur, Padresse du destinataire, une marque de fabrique ou de marchand, des numeros d'ordre et des prix.
4) Il est interdit de reunir ces objets 4 une lettre ou 4 un envoi d'une autre nature, sauf le cas ou ils feraient partie int6grante d'un ouvrage special.
5) Les echantillons qui ne rempliraient pas les conditions requises seront taxes comme lettres, sauf ceux qui auraient une valeur. Ces derniers ne seront pas expedies, non plus que ceux dont le transport offrirait des inconvenients ou du danger.

tended to them by Article 4 of the treaty under the following conditions:
2. They must be placed in bags, How enclosed. or in boxes, or envelopes removable so as to admit of an easy examination.
3. They must not have any sala- How m ay be ble value, nor bear any manuscript marked. writing other than the name or the trade or profession of the sender, the
address of the person for whom the packet is intended, a manufac-
turer's or trade mark, numbers and prices.
4. It is forbidden to annex these Not to be annexed articles to a letter, or to a packet to letters, &c. of any other kind, unless they form an integral part of a particular work.
5. Patterns which are not in ac- When to be cordance with the requisite, condi- charged as letters. tions shall be charged as letters, except those which are valuable. The latter shall not be forwarded, nor those the conveyance of which would be attended with risk or danger.

XIII.

XIII.

Papiers d'affaires.

Legal and Commercial Documents.

1) Seront consideres comme papiers d'affaires et admis comme tels 4 la moderation de port consacree par Particle 4 du traite, les actes de tout genre dresses par les officiers ministeriels, les lettres de voiture, les differents documents de service des compagnies d'assurance, les copies ou extraits d'actes sous seing prive ecrits sur papier timbre ou non timbre, les partitions ou feuilles de musique manuscrites et generalement toutes les pieces et tous les documents ecrits 4 la main qui n'ont pas le caractere d'une correspondance actuelle et personnelle.
2) Les papiers d'affaires devront etre expedies sous une bande mobile et conditionnes de maniere a pouvoir etre facilement verifies.
3) Les envois qui ne rempliraient pas les conditions enoncees cidessus seront considers comme lettres non affranchies et taxes en consequence.

1. The following articles shall be Legal and comconsidered as legal and commercial mercial documents documents, and admitted as such defined.

to the reduced postage conferred by Article 4 of the treaty: acts or deeds of all kinds drawn up by public functionaries, invoices, the various documents on the service of insurance companies, copies or

extracts of deeds under private seal written upon stamped or unstamped paper, scores or sheets of manuscript music, and in general

all manuscript papers and documents which have not the character of an actual and personal corres-

pondence. 2. Commercial and legal docu- How made up.

ments must be sent under a movable band, and made up so as to admit of their being easily examined.
3. Packets which do not fulfil the conditions above enumerated shall be considered as unpaid letters and charged accordingly.

When considered as unpaid letters.

600

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9,1874.

XIV.

Corresponden c e with foreign countries.
Offices of Union to have reciprocal advantages of.
Statements of conditions to be furnished.
Notice of alterations.

Correspondance avec les pays etrangers.
1) Les Offices de FUnion qui ont des relations regulieres btablies avec des pays situes en dehors de FUnion admettront tons les autres Offices a profiler de ces relations pour Fhchange de leurs correspondances, centre paieinent des taxes dues pour le transport en dehors des limites de FUnion.
2) Ils auront, en consequence, a fournir aux Offices interesses un tableau couforme au modele joint au present reglement, sub lit. C, et qui indiquera les conditions de prix auxquelles pourront etre echangees les correspondances expedier ou a recevoir par les dites voies.
3) Les changements introduits dans ces conditions devront etre notifies en temps opportun.

XV.

Correspondances mal dirigees.

Misdirected cor- Les objets de toute nature mal

respondence.

diriges seront, sans aucun delai,

reexpedies par la voie la plus

directe vers leur destination, contre remboursement ou bonification, s'il y a lieu, des taxes pour lesquelles ils auraient ete portes en compte.

XVI.

Undelivered correspondence.
To be returned.
How enclosed and tnarked.

Rebuts.
1) Les correspondances qui seront tombees en rebut pour quelque cause que ce soit devront etre renvoyees aussitot apres leur mise en rebut par Fintermhdiaire des bureaux d'echange respectifs.
2) Les rebuts renvoyes seront enliasses separement et pourvus d'une etiquette portant le mot " rebuts."

Claims on.

3) Ceux des dits objets qui
auront ete affranchis seront livres sans aucun compte.
4) Les lettres non affranchies ou insuffisamment affranchies seront 6galement livr6es sans compte, pour autant qu'elles sont originaires d'un pays de FUnion.
5) Gelles des dites correspondances qui se trouveraient grevees de debours seront portees au credit de 1'Office qui en fait le renvoi (tableau N° I de la feuille d'avis).

XIV.
Correspondence with Foreign Countries.
1. The Offices of the Union which have regular relations established with countries situated beyond the Union shall admit all the other Offices to take advantage of those relations for the exchange of their correspondence, on payment of the charges due for the conveyance beyond the limits of the Union.
2. They shall, consequently, furnish the Offices interested, with a table similar to the specimen under letter C. appended to the present regulations, whichshallindicatethe conditions as to payment under which may be exchanged the correspondence to be sent or received by the said routes.
3. Due notice shall be given of any alterations introduced into those conditions.
XV.
Misdirected Correspondence. Missent articles of all kinds shall be re-forwarded without delay to their destination by the most direct route, subject, where the case occurs, to a charge or claim of the amounts for which they may have been originally brought to account.
XVI.
Undelivered Correspondence.
1. The correspondence which shall not be delivered, from whatever cause, shall be returned immediately through the respective offices of exchange.
2. Undelivered correspondence shall be tied up separately, and inscribed with a label bearing the words " Undelivered correspondence."
3. Those articles which shall have been paid shall be returned without any claim.
4. Unpaid or insufficiently paid letters shall, in like manner, be returned without claim, in so far as they may have originated in a country of the Union.
5. Those which may have been charged with foreign rates shall be entered to the credit of the Office which returns them. (Table No. I. of the letter bill.)

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874,

601

XVII.

XVII.

Comptabilitt.

Accounts.

1) Cbaque Administration fera etablir mensuellement, pour chaque depeche regue, un etat conforme au modele annexe au present reglement, sub lit. D, comprenant les correspondances inscrites aux feuilles d'avis de ses correspondants.
2) Ces etats seront ensuite recapitules dans un compte conforme au modele lit. E.
3) Le compte accompagne des etats et des feuilles d'avis (dont on detachera le tableau N° IV) sera soumis a la verification de l'Office correspondant, dans le conrant du mois qui suit celui auquel il se rapporte.
4) Les comptes mensuels, apres avoir ete verifies et acceptes de part et d'autre, seront resumes en un compte general trimestriel par les soins de 1'Administration de celui des deux pays qui sera place le premier dans 1'ordre alphabetique, sauf autre arrangement a prendre a cet egard par les Administrations interessees.
5) Ces divers comptes seront etablis en francs et centimes.
6) Le solde resultant du compte general sera paye au pays crediteur en francs effectifs au moyen de traites tirees sur des places 4 designer d'avance et d'un commun accord.
XVIII.

1. Each Administration shall pre-
pare monthly, for each mail recei ved, a statement similar to the specimen under letter D appended to the present regulations, comprising the correspondence brought to account on the letter bills received.
2. Those statements shall afterwards be incorporated in an account similar to the specimen under letter E.
3. The account, accompanied by
the statements and the letter bills (from which table No. IV. shall be detached), shall be submitted to the examination of the corresponding Office during the month following that to which it relates.
4. The monthly accounts, after having been mutually examined and accepted, shall be included in a quarterly general account to be prepared by the Administration of
that one of the two countries which shall be placed first in alphabetical order, in the absence of any other arrangement on this point which may be adopted by the Administrations interested.
5. These several accounts shall be drawn up in francs and centimes.
6. The balance resulting from
the general account shall be paid to the country to which it is due in francs in cash, by means of bills drawn upon places to be determined beforehand by mutual consent.
XVIII.

Accounts. Monthly, form D. Consolidated, form E. When submitted.
Quarterly general, by whom to be made.
Unit of. Payment of balance.

Periodes de statistique.

Periods for Statistics.

1) La statistique generale a etablir en vertu de I'article 10, § 12, du traite pour regler le paiement des droits de transit sera dressee en premier lieu, pendant sept jours consdcutifs chaque fois, 4 partir du l6r Aout 1875 et du ler Dticembre de la meme annde. Elie servira de base pour les paiements 4 faire, jusqu'au 30 Juin 1876.
2) Pour les statistiques 4 etablir ulterieurement, elles se feront a partir du ler Juin et du ler Decembre.

1. The general statistical account Periods for stato be taken by virtue of Article 10, tistics.
As to first transit
§ 12, of the treaty for the purpose of rates. regulating the payment of the transit rates, shall be prepared, in the first instance, during seven con-
secutive days on each occasion,, from the 1st of August, 1875, and from the 1st of December in the same year. It shall serve as a basis, for the payments to be made, up to the 30th of June, 1876.
2. The subsequent statistical ac- As to subsequent counts shall betaken for the periods transit rates. commencing on the 1st of June and 1st of December respectively.

602

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

3) Il sera procedbea ces opera- 3. These statistical operations

tions de statistique conformbment shall be carried out in conformity

aux dispositions des articles XIX with the stipulations of Articles

a XXIII suivants.

XIX to XXIII following.

XIX.

XIX.

Statistique du transit a decouvert. Statistics of Transit in Open Mails.

Statistics of transit in open mails
Table, form F, tc be prepared.

1) L'Office servant d'intermbdiaire pour la transmission des cor-
respondances en transitu decouvert, regues directement d'un autre Office, dressera d'avance, pour chaque relation, un tableau d'apres le formulaire lit. F, dans lequel il indiquera, en distinguant au besoin les diverses voies d'acheminement, les prix de transit, au poids, payer
tous les pays intermbdiaires partir de la frontiere de sortie de 1'Office expediteur jusqu'a la frontiere d'entrbe de 1'Office destinataire. Au besoin, il se renseignera
en temps utile, auprbs des Offices des pays a traverser, sur les voies que devront suivre les correspondances et sur les prix leur appliquer.

Copy to be fur- 2) Aprbs avoir dressb ce formu-

nished.

laire, le dit Office en remettra un

double a 1'Office expediteur intb-

ressb, pour servir de base a un db-

compte special a btablir entre eux du chef de ce transit.

Table, form G, to be prepared.
Special account to be prepared and submitted.

3) Le bureau d'bchange expbditeur renseignera dans un tableau d'aprbs le formulaire lit. G, qu'il joindra a son envoi, le poids global, en deux catbgories, des correspondances qu'il livrera en transit au bureau d'bchange correspondant, et celui-ci, aprbs vbrification, prendra livraison de ces correspondances pour les acheminer vers leurs destinations en les confondant avec les siennes propres pour le paiement des droits de transit ultbrieurs.
4) Le dbcompte particulier dont il est question ci-dessus sera dressb par 1'Office qui regoit les correspondances en transit, et soumis & la vbrification de 1'Office expbditeur.

1. The Office serving as the medium for the transmission of corre-
spondence in transit in open mails received directly from another Office, shall prepare beforehand for each separate service a table, according to the form letter F, in which it shall indicate, distinguishing, if needful, the different routes of transmission, the transit rates to be paid, by weight, to all the
intermediate countries from the frontier of exit of the despatching Office to the frontier of entry of the Office of destination. If needful, it shall communicate in due time, with the Offices of the countries to be traversed, as to the routes which the correspondence shall take, and as to the rates to be paid upon it.
2. After having prepared this
table, the said Office shall forward a copy of it to the despatching Office interested, in order to serve as the basis of a special account to be established between them with
reference to this transit. 3. The despatching office of ex-
change shall communicate in a table according to the specimen form letter G., which it shall join to its despatch, the total weight, in two categories, of the correspondence which it shall deliver in transit to the corresponding office of exchange; and the latter, after verification, shall undertake the further transmission of the correspondence to its destination, mixing it
with its own, in respect to the payment of the further transit rates.
4. The special account above referred to shall be prepared by the Office which receives the correspondence in transit, and shall be submitted to the examination of the despatching Office.

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

603

XX. Statistique du transit en depeches
closes.

XX. Statistics of Transit in Closed. Mails.

1) Les correspondances expediees en depeches closes a travers le territoire d'un ou de plusieurs autres Offices devront faire 1'objet d'un relevd, formulaire lit. H. Le bureau d'echange expediteur inscrira a la feuille d'avis pour le bureau d'echange destinataire de la depSche, le poids net des lettres et celui des imprimis, etc., sans distinction de 1'origine de ces corres-
pondances. Ces indications seront verifies par le bureau destinataire, lequel aura a etablir, a la fin de la periode de statistique, le releve mentionne ci-dessus, en autant d'expeditions qu'il y aura d'Offices interesses, y compris celui du lieu de depart.
2) Ces releves seront sounds 4 la verification du bureau expedites? et, apres avoir ete acceptes par lui, il en sera envoye un exemplaire 4 chacun des Offices intermediaires.

1. The correspondence forwarded in closed mails across the territory of one or more other Offices shall form the object of a statement similar to specimen letter II. The despatching office of exchange shall enter in the letter bill for the receiving
office of exchange the net weight of the letters, and of the printed papers, etc., without distinction of the origin of the correspondence. These entries shall be verified by the receiving office, which shall prepare, at the end of the period for taking the statistics, the statement above mentioned, in as many copies as there are Offices interested, including that of the place of final despatch.
2. These statements shall be submitted to the verification of the despatching office, and, after having been accepted by it, a copy of the same shall be sent to each of the intermediate Offices.

Statistics of transit in closed mails.
Statement, form H, to be prepared.
Copies to be furnished.
Verification.

XXL

XXI.

Comptes du transit.

Transit Accounts.

Le tableau lit. G et le releve lit. H seront resumes dans un compte particulier, par lequel on etablira le prix annuel de transit revenant
4 chaque Office, en multipliant par 26 les totaux reunis des deux periodes. Le soin d'etabiir ce compte incombera 4 1'Office crediteur, sauf autre arrangement 4 intervenir d'un commun accord.

The table letter G. and the statement letter H. shall be incorporated in a special account, by which shall be determined the annual amount of transit payable to each Office, in multiplying by 26 the combined
totals of the two periods. The duty of preparing this account shall fall upon the Office having to receive payment, subject to any other arrangement to be adopted by common consent.

Transit Special basis of.
To be by whom

accounts. account,
prepared

XXII.

XXII.

Transit des cartes-correspondance.

Transit of Post- Cards.

Les cartes-correspondance seront assimilees aux lettres en ce qui
concerne le paiement des droits de transit. Ces objets devront en consequence etre compris dans la pesee des lettres.

Post-cards shall be assimilated to Transit of postletters in so far as concerns the cards.
payment of the transit rates. These A s s i milated to articles must consequently be in- letters. cluded in the weighing of letters.

604

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

XXIII.

XXIII.

Exemption des droits de transit.

Exemptionfrom Transit Rates.

Exemptions from transit rates.
Articles specified.

Sont exempts de la bonification des frais de transit territoriaux et maritimes les correspondances reexpbdibes et mal dirigbes, les rebuts, les mandats de poste, les pieces de comptabilith et autres documents relatifs au service
postal.

The following articles are exempt
from payment of the costs of territorial transit and sea-con veyance:-- Redirected and missent correspondence, undelivered correspondence, post-office money orders, documents of accounts, and other documents relating to the postal service.

XXIV.

XXIV.

Poids des journaux et des imprimes. Weight of Newspapers and Printed Papers.

Weight of newspapers, &c.
Exceptional meas ureas to weights and rates.

Il est admis par mesure d'exception que les Etats qui, a cause de leur regime intbrieur, ne pourraient adopter le type de poids decimal metrique, auront la facultb d'y substituer l'once, avoirdupois (28.3465
grammes) en assimilant une demionce a 15 grammes et deux onces a 50 grammes, et d'blever, au besoin, la limite du port simple des journaux a quatre onces, mais sous la condition expresse que dans ce dernier cas le port des journaux ne soit pas infbrieur a 10 centimes et qu'il soit percu un port entier par numbro de journal, alors meme que plusieurs journaux se trouveraient groupbs dans un meme envoi.

As an exceptional measure, it is agreed that the States which, in consequenee of their internal regu-
lations, are unable to adopt the decimal metrical system of weight, shall have the right to substitute for it the ounce avoirdupois (28.3465 grammes), by assimilating a half-
ounce to 15 grammes, and two ounces to 50 grammes, and to raise, if needful, the limit of the single rate of postage of newspapers to four ounces, but under the express condition that, in the latter case, the postage on newspapers be not less than 10 centimes, and that an entire rate of postage be charged for each copy of a newspaper, even though several newspapers be included in the same packet.

XXV.

XXV.

Monnaies, bijoux.

Money; Jewelry.

Money ; jewelry. Dutiable articles not to be admitted in mails.

On n'admettra au transport par la poste aucune lettre ou autre envoi qui contiendrait soit de 1'or ou de 1'argent monnayb, soit des bijoux ou des effets prbcieux, soit tout objet quelconque passible de droits de douane.

There shall not be admitted for conveyance by the post, any letter or other packet which may contain either gold or silver money, jewels or precious articles, or any other article whatever liable to customs
duties.

XXVI.

XXVI.

Cartes-correspondance et lettres non Post cards and Letters not admitted

admises au transport.

to conveyance.

Post-cards and letters not admitted to conveyance.
Post-cards.

Il ne sera pas donne cours aux cartes-correspondance qui ne seraient pas completement affranchies. Chaque Administration aura, en outre, la facultb de ne pas expbdier ou de ne pas admettre dans son

Post-cards which are not fully prepaid shall not be forwarded. Each Administration shall have, moreover, the right not to forward or not to admit in its service postcards bearing any description of

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

605

service les cartes-correspondance portant des inscriptions qui seraient interdites par les dispositions 1egales ou reglementaires en vi» gueur dans le pays. Il en sera de meme pour les lettres et les autres objets de correspondance qui por-
teraientexterieurement des inscriptions de I'espece.

writing which may be forbidden by the laws or regulations in force in the country. The same shall be the case for letters and other articles which may bear externally any writing of the character referred to.

Letters.

XXVII.

XXVII.

Bureau international.

International Office.

1) L'Administration superieure des Postes de la Confederation Suisse est designee pour organiser le Bureau international institue par l'art. 15 du traite. Ce bureau commencera a fonctionner aussitot apres l'ecbange des ratifications du traite.
2) Les frais communs du Bureau international ne doivent pas depasser, par annee, la somme de 75,000 francs, non compris les frais speciaux auxquels donneront lieu les reunions periodiques du Congres postal. Cette somme pourra etre
augmentee ulterieurement, du consentement de toutes les Administrations contractantes.
3) L'Administration designee par
§ 1 ci-dessus surveillera les depenses du Bureau international, fera les avances necessaires et etablira le compte annuel, qui sera communique a toutes les autres Administrations.
4) Pour la repartition des frais, les pays contractants et ceux qui seraient admis ulterieurement a adherer a FUnion postale, seront divises en six classes contribuant chacune dans la proportion d'un certain nombre d'unites, savoir:

lre classe 2e " 3e " 4e " -

- 25unites - 20 " - 15 " - 10 "

5e "

5 "

6e " - - 3 "

5) Ces coefficients seront multiplies par le nombre des pays de

chaque classe et la somme des produits ainsi obtenus fournira le nombre d'unites par lequel le depense totale doit etre divisee. Le quotient donnera le montant de Funite de depense.

1. The Administration of the Posts of the Swiss Confederation is selected to organize the International Office established by Art. 15 of the treaty. That office shall

commence its functions immediately after the exchange of the rat-

ifications of the treaty. 2. The ordinary expense of the

International Office must not exceed the sum of 75,000 francs annu-

ally, exclusive of the special expenses to which the periodical

meetings of the Postal Congress may give rise. This sum may be

increased ultimately, with the consent of all the contracting Administrations.

3. The Administration named in § 1. above shall superintend the ex-

penses of the International Office, shall make the necessary advances, and shall prepare the annual ac-

count, which shall becommunicated to all the other Administrations.
4. For the division of the expenses, the contracting countries

and those which may be hereafter admitted to join the Postal Union

shall be divided into six classes, each contributing in the proportion of a certain number of units, viz:--

1st class 2nd " 3rd " 4th " -

- 25 units. - 20 " - 15 " - .10 "

5th " 6th " -

- 5" - 3"

5. These co-efficients shall be multiplied by the number of coun-

tries of each class, and the total of

the products thus obtained shall furnish the number of units by which the whole expense shall be

divided. The quotient will give the amount of the unit of expense.

International office, who to organize it.
When to commence its f u n c tions.
Limit of expenses.
Supervision and account of expenses.
Division of expenses.
Method of ascertaining unit of expense.

606

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1871.

Classification countries.

of 6) Les pays contractants sont classes ainsi qu'il suit, en vue de la repartition des frais : lro classe: Allemagne, AutricheHongrie, Etats-Unis d'Ambrique, France, Grande-B r e t a g n e, Italie, Russie, Tur-
quie; 2e " Espagne; 3e " Belgique, Egypte, Pa-
ys-Bas, Roumanie, Suede; 4e " Danemark, Norvbge, Portugal, Suisse;

Medium for notifications.
Documents relative to interior service.
Statistical details to be furnished.
General statistical report.
Inter national journal.
How distributed.
Additional copies.
Shall furnish special information.

5e " Grece, Serbie; 6e " Luxembourg. 7) Le Bureau international servira d'intermbdiaire aux notifications regulieres et generales qui intbressent les relations internationales. Il recevra bgalement de chaque Administration les documents publibs sur le service interieur. 8) Chaque Administration fera
parvenir dans le ler semestre de chaque annbe au Bureau international une sbrie complete des renseignements statistiques se rapportant a 1'aunbe prbcbdente sous forme de tableaux dressbs d'aprhs les indication s du Bureau internation al, qui distribuera a cet effet des formules toutes prbparbes. Il rbunira ces renseignements en une statistique gbnbrale qui sera distribube a toutes les Administrations.
9) Le Bureau international rb-
digera, a 1'aide des documents qui sont mis a sa disposition, un journal special en langues allemande, anglaise et frangaise.
10) Les numbros de ce journal, de meme que tous les documents publibs par le Bureau international, seront distribubs aux Administrations de 1'Union, dans la proportion du nombre des unites contributives mentionnbes au § 4. Les exemplaires et documents supplementaires qui seraient rbclambs seront paybs a part d'apres leur prix de revient. Les demandes de cette nature devront etre formuIees en temps opportun.
11) Le Bureau international devra se tenir, en tout temps, la disposition des membres de l' Union, pour leur fournir, sur les questions rela-

6. The contracting countries are classified as follows, in view of the. division of the expenses:--
1stclass: Germany, Austria-Hungary, United States of America, France, Great Britain, Italy, Russia, Turkey;

2nd " Spain; 3rd " Belgium, Egypt, Neth-

erlands, Roumania, Sweden;

4th " Denmark, Norway, Portugal, Switzer-

5th " 6th "

land; Greece, Servia; Luxemburg.

7. The International Office shall serve as the medium for the regular and general notifications which concern international relations. It

shall likewise receive from each Administration published docu-

ments relative to its interior service.

8. Each Administration shall furnish the International Office, in the 1st half of each year, with a complete series of statistical details relating to the previous year, in the form of tables prepared according to direc-
tions from the International Office, which shall distribute with that view forms properly prepared. It shall incorporate these details in a general statistical report, which shall be distributed to all the Administrations.
9. The International Office shall
publish, by the aid of the documents which are placed at its disposal, a special journal in the German, English, and French languages.
10. The numbers of this journal, as well as all the documents pub-
lished by the International Office, shall be distributed to the Administrations of the Union in the proportion of the number of contributing units mentioned in § 4. Any
additional copies and documents which may be applied for shall be paid for separately at prime cost. Applications of this nature should be made in due time.

11. The International Office shall hold itself always at the service of the members of the Union for the purpose of furnishing them with

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

607

tives au service international des postes, les renseignements speciaux dont ils pourraient avoir besoin.
12) Lorsqu'il aura soumis aux Administrations la solution d'une question qui reclame 1'assentiment de tous les membres de l'Union, ceux qui n'auront point fait parvenir leur reponse dans le delai de quatre mois seront consideres comme consentants.
13) L'Administration du pays ou doit sieger le prochain Congres postal prbparera avec le concours du Bureau international les travaux du Congres.
14) Le directeur du Bureau international assistera aux sbances du Congres et prendra part aux discussions, sans voix dblibbrative.
15) Il fera, sur sa gestion, un rapport annuel qui sera communiqub a tous les membres de FUnion.
16) La langue officielle du Bureau international sera la langue frangaise.

any special information they may require upon questions relating to the international postal service.
12. When it shall have submitted to the solution of the several Administrations a question which requires
the assent of all the members of the Union, those which shall not have sent in their reply within a period of four months shall be considered as giving their consent.
13. The Administration of the country in which the next Postal
Congress is to be held, shall prepare, with the assistance of the In-
ternational Office, the business to be submitted to the Congress.
14. The director of the International Office shall be present at the sittings of the Congress and shall take part in the discussions, but without the power of voting.
15. There shall be issued, under his superintendence, an annual report, which shall be communicated to all the members of the Union.
16. The official language of the
International Office shall be the French language.

Decision of questions.
Business of next Congress.
Director to bo present at C o n gress.
Annual report of director.
Official language.

XXVI11. Langue.

XXVIII. Language.

1) Les feuilles d'avis, lescomptes et autres formulaires a Fusage des Administrations de FUnion seront, en rbgle gbnbrale, rbdigbs en langue frangaise, a moins que les Administrations intbressbes n'en disposent autrement par une entente directe.
2) En ce qui concerne la correspondance de service, 1'btat de choses actuel sera maintenu, sauf
autre arrangement a intervenir ultbrieurement et d'un cornmun accord entre les Administrations intbressbes.
XXIX.

1. The letter bills, accounts, and other forms used by the Administrations of the Union shall, as a general rule, be drawn up in the French language, unless the Administrations interested arrange otherwise by direct agreement.
2. As regards official correspondence, the present state of things shall be maintained, unless any other arrangement should subsequently be agreed upon by common consent between the Administrations interested.
XXIX.

Language. Of bills and accounts.
Of official correspondence.

Ressort de V Union.
Seront consideres comme appartenant a FUnion gbnbrale des postes :
1° L'Islande et les iles Faroe, comme faisant partie du Danemark.
2° Lesiles Balbares, les iles Canaries, les possessions espagnoles de la cote septentrionale d'Afrique et les btablissements de poste de FEspagne sur la cote occidentale du Maroc, comme faisant partie de FEspagne.

District of the Union.
The following shall be considered as belonging to the General Postal Union:--
1st. Iceland and the Faroe Islands, as forming part of Denmark.
2d. The Balearic Isles, the Canary Islands, the Spanish possessions on the Northern Coast of Africa, and the postal establishments of Spain upon the Western Coast of Morocco, as forming part of Spain.

District of union.

608

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

3° L'Algerie, comme faisant partie de la France.
4° L'ilede Malte,comme relevant de 1'Administration des Postesde la Grande-Bretagne.
5° Madere et les Azores, comme faisant partie du Portugal.
6° LeGrande-DuchedeFinlande, comme faisant partie intbgrante de 1'Empire de Russie.

3d. Algeria, as forming part of France.
4b. The Island of Malta, as subordinate to the Postal Administration of Great Britain.
5th. Madeira and the Azores, as forming part of Portugal.
6th. The Grand Duchy of Finland, as forming an integral part of the Empire of Russia.

XXX. -

XXX.

Duree du Reglement.

Duration of reg- Le present reglement sera execu-
ulations.
toire a partir du jour de la mise en vigueur du traite du 9 Octobre 1874. Il aura la meme duree que ce traite, a moins qu'il ne soit modifie d'un
commun accord entre les parties interessees.

Signatures.

Berne, le 9 Octobre 1874.
Pour les Etats-Unis d'Amerique: Jos ep h H. Bla ckfa n .
Pour 1'Allemagne: Ste pha n . Gunt he r .
Pour 1'Autriche: Le Baro n de Kol ben st ein er . Pilh al .
Pour la Hongrie: M. Gerva y . P. Hei m .
Pour la Belgique: Fass iau x .
VlNCHENT.
J. Gife . Pour le Danemark:
Fen ge r . Pour 1'Egypte:
Muzzi Bey . Pour 1'Espagne:
Ange l Mans i. Emil io C. de Nava squ es .
Pour la France: (3 mai 1875,) B. d 'Har co ur t .
Pour la Grande-Bretagne: Wm . Jas . Pag e .
Pour la Grece: A. Mans ola s . A. H. B^ta nt .
Pour 1'Italie: Tante sio .
Pour le Luxembourg: Von Roe be .
Pour la Norvege: C. Oppen .

Duration of the Regulations.
The present Regulations shall be put into execution on the day on which the treaty of the 9th of October 1874 comes into force. They shall have the same duration as that treaty, unless they should be modified by common consent between the parties interested.
Berne, 9th October, 1874.
For the United States of America: Jose ph H. Bla ckfa n .
For Germany: Step ha n . Gunt he r .
For Austria: Le Baro n de Kolbe nst ein er . Pil hal .
For Hungary: M. Gerva y . P. Hei m .
For Belgium: Fassi au x .
VlNCHENT.
J. Gife . For Denmark:
Fen ge r . For Egypt:
Muzz i Bey . For Spain:
Ange l Mans i. Emili o C. de Nava sque s .
For France: (May 3, 1875,) B. d 'Harc ourt .
For Great Britain: Wm . Jas . Page .
For Greece: A. Mans ola s . A. H. Bet ant .
For Italy: Tant esi o .
For Luxemburg: Von Roebe .
For Norway : C. Oppe n .
%

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

Pour les Pays-Bas: Hof st ede . B. Swee rts de Landas
BORGH.
Pour le Portugal: Eduard o Less a .
Pour la Roumanie: Georg e F. Lahov ari .
Pour la Russie: Baro n Vel ho . Georg es Pogge npo hl .
Pour la Serbie: Mlad en Z. Rad ojk ov it ch .
Pour la Suede: W. Roos.
Pour la Suisse: Euge ne Bore l . Naeff . Dr . J. Heer .
Pour la Turquie: Yanco Macrid i.

Wy -

For the Netherlands: Hof st ed e . B. Swee rts de Lan da s
bor gh .

Wy -

For Portugal: Edu ard o Les sa .

For Roumania: Georg e F. Laho vari .

For Russia: Baron Velh o . Georg es Pogge npo hl .

For Servia: Mlad en Z. Rado jkov itc h .

For Sweden: W. Roos.

For Switzerland: Eug en e Borel .
Naef f . Dr . J. Heer .

For Turkey : Yanco Macrid i.

xix ----- 39

609

610

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1871.

Administration des Postes

A.

Correspondence avec VOffice

d

d

(Timbre du bureau expediteur.)

FEUILLE D'AVIS. Dephehe du bureau d'echange-------- d--------- pour le bureau d'bchange---------d-------- -
Depart du-------- 187-- a--------- h.--------- m. du--------Arrivbe le-------- 187-- a --------- h.--------- m. du--------

I. Avoi r de l 'of f ice d 'Gchakge exi -£di te ur .

II. Avoi r de l 'off ice d '6chang e dest inatai re .

Fr.

Os.

Ft .

Cs.

de bours
(Port etrangcr, taxe des correspoudauces reexpddiees)

Bonif i cations (Taxes etc.)

a. Objets ordinaires b. Objets recommandes

(Timbre du bureau expbditeur.)
o

IV. Envoi s rec omm and e s .

(Timbre du bureau destinataire.)
o

Nos d'ordre.
1 1 2

Timbre d'origine.

Numbros du registre des bureaux d'origine ou noms des destinataires et lieux de destination. 3

A bonifier 1'Office d'bchange destinataire.

Port btranger.

4

Fr.

Cs.

Droit de recommandation.
5

Fr.

Cs.

Observations. 0

3

4 5 6 7 8 9 10

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9,1874.
III. Dep ech es clos es .

Bureau d'origine. 1

Bureau de destination. 2

Nombre des depeches closes. 3

Observations.
4

611



N° d'ordre.
1
11 12 13 14 15 16 etc.

Timbre d'origiue.

Numeros du registre des bureaux
d'origiue OU
noms des destinataires et lieux de destination.
3

A bonifier a 1'Otlice d'ecbange destinataire.

Port etranger. 4

Fr.

Cs.

Droit de recommandation.
5

Fr.

Cs.

Observations. 6

Totaux

Total general, a reporter au Tableau No II, lit. b

L'employe du bureau d'echange exp6diteur :

L'employe du bureau d'echange destinataire :

612

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

Postal Administration of------- .

Correspondence with the Office

A.

of--------.

(Stamp of despatching office.)

LETTER-BILL.
Mail from the exchange office of-------- for the exchange office of---------. Departure of-------- , 187--, at------o'clock. Arrival of------- , 187--, at------ o'clock.

I. Credit of th e des pat chi ng exchange off ic e .

II. Cre dit of the recei vin g exchange off ic e .

Fr.

Cs.

Fr.

Cs.

Clai ms (foreign postage-charge on re-forwarded cor-
respondence) ...................................... .............

(charges, &c.)

a. Ordinary Credi ts
b. Registered

correspondence.................................
correspondence....

(Stamp of despatching office.)
o

IDVIS. PRAETGCIHSTE8E.RED

(Stamp of receiving omce.)
o

Nos. of order.
1
1 2

Stamp of origin.2

Registration numbers of the offices of origin or names of the addressees and places of destination. 3

To pay to the receiving exchange Office.

Foreign postage.

4

Fr.

Cs.

Registration fee.

5

Fr.

Cs.

Observations. 6

3

4
5 6 7

8 9 10

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

III. Clo se d mail s .

Office of origin. 1

Office of destination.
2

Number of the closed mails.
3

Observations. 4

GIB

Nos. of order.
1
11 12 13 14 15 16 etc.

Stamp of origin. 2

Registration numbers of the offices of origin or names of the addressees and places of destination. 3

To pay to the receiving Office of exchange.

Foreign postage.

4

Fr.

Cs.

Registration fee.

Fr.

Cs.

Observations. 6

Totals..................................................

General total to carry to Table No. II, b....................

Clerk of the despatching exchange office:

Clerk of the receiving exchange office :

G14

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

Administration des Postes d--------

Correspondancc avec 1'Office

II.

d--------

BULLETIN DE VERIFICATION pour la rectification et la constatation des erreurs et irregularites de toute nature reconnues dans la depthhe du
bureau d'echange d --------pour le bureau d'echange d --------
Expedition du-------- 187--, it------h.------to. du---------

Numbros des tableaux de la feuille d'avis. 1

Dbsignation des correspondances.

Erreurs

2 de comp te .

Declaration du bureau d'bchange expbditeur. 3

Vbrification du bureau d'bchange destinataire. 4

Causes de la rect ification. 5

Fr.

Cs.

Fr.

Os.

AUTRES ERREURS OU IRREGULARITES.
(Manque de la depeche, manque d'objets recommandes ou de la feuille d'avis, dbpbche spoliee, lacbrbe, en mauvais etat, etc., etc.)

A-------- , le --------187-- Les employes du bureau d'echange destinataire :

Vu et acceptb A--------, le-------- 187-- Le. chef du bureau d'echange expediteur :

Postal Administration of--------

B.

Correspondence with the

Office of---.

BULLETIN OF VERIFICATION for the correction and statement of the errors and irregularities of all hinds found in the mail from the exchange
office of---------for the exchange office of--------
Despatch of the------- , 187--, at------o'clock.

Numbers of the tables of the letter-bill. 1

Description of the correspondence.

Errors

2 of Accoun t .

Statement of the despatching'exchange office. 3

Verification by the receiving exchange office.
4

Causes of the correction.

Fr.

Cs.

Fr.

Cs.

OTHER ERRORS OR IRREGULARITIES.
(Missing mail, missing registered articles or letter-hill, robbed, torn or injured mail, &c. &c.)

-------- the---------, 187--. Clerks of receiving exchange o ffice ;

Examined and accepted. --------- the-------- , 187--.
Chief of despatching exchange office:

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

615

Administration des Postes d--

C. TABLEAU indignant les conditions auxquelles pourront etre echangees, a decouvert, entre les Administrations de 1'Union postale et 1'Administration d-- , les lettres et les autres objets de correspondance originaires ou a destination des pays (Strangers auxquels cette derniere Administration sert d'interm&liaire.

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oc t . 9, 1874.

TABLEAU

O

indignant les conditions auxquelles pourront etre echangees d decouvert entre les Administrations de V Union postale et VAdministration d------------- , les lettres et les autres objets de correspondance originaires ou a destination des pays etrangers auxquels cette derniere Administration sert d'interme'diaire.

Pays de destination

N°'

ou

d'origine.

1

2

franchissem eut. Conditions de 1'af-
franchissem ent. L im ites de 1'af-
ple. d'une lettre sim Poids en grammes ple.
oo d 'une le ttre sim Poids en grammes
ple. Ci d'un paquet sim -
Poids en grammes 40 (P ort Stranger.)
_ Bo n if ic a t io n s
ple.
2 d'un paquet sim-
Poids en grammes (Port Stranger.) Bo n if ic a t io n s

Lettres ordinaires.

Lettres affranchies pour 1'Stranger.

Lettres non affranchies de 1'Stranger.

Boni fi cat ion s (Port Stranger.) 6

Fr.

Cs.

Labours (Port Stran-
ger.) 7

Fr.

Cs.

Lettres rccommandSes.

Journaux ou autres Echantillons de

imprimes.

merchandises.

BONIFICATIONS.

Droit de recommendation.
9

Port. 10 Fr. Cs.

Fr. Cs.

Fr. Cs.

Observations. 15

*

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

617

Postal Administration of-.

C.
TABLE
showing the conditions under which there may be exchanged in open mails, between the Administrations of the Postal Union and the Administration of-- , letters
and other correspondence originating in or addressed to the foreign countries to which the latter Administration serves as intermediary.

618

TABLE Showing the conditions under which there may he exchanged in open mails, between the Administrations of the Postal Union and the Administration of--------, letters arid other
correspondence originating in or addressed to the foreign countries to which the latter Administration serves as intermediary.

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oc t . 9, 1874.

Nos.

Country of destination or
of origin.

1

2

ment. Condition of prepayLim it of prepayment.
a single letter. W eight in grammes of
a single letter. W eight in grammes of o R egister fee. Postage.
a single packet. W eight in grammes of
(foreign postage.) Cr e d it s ,
a single packet. W eight in grammes of
(foreign postage.) Cr e d it s ,

Ordinary letters.

Prepaid letters for foreign countries.

Unpaid letters from foreign
countries.

Credi ts ,

Clai ms ,

(foreign postage.) (foreign postage.)

6

Fr.

Cs.

7

Fr.

Cs.

Registered letters. Credi ts .

Newspapers or other prints.

Samples of merchandise.

Observations.

Fr. Cs.

·Fr. Cs.

15 Fr. Cs.

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

619

Administration des Posies d-------

Correspondance avec V Office, d--------
ETAT MENSUEL
du contenu des depeches du bureau d-------- pour le bureau d--------Depart de ------ h.-------- m. du--------Mois d-------- 187--

KUMEROS DES ARTICLES DES COMPTES.

Dates.
1
1 2 3 4

I. Avoir del'Office
d'Geliange expediteur.

2

Fr.

Cs.

IT. Avoir de 1'Oflice d'echange destinataire.

a. Objets ordinaires.

3

Fr.

Cs.

b. Objets recommandes. 4

Fr.

Cs.

Observations.

6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
Totaux.

620

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

Postal Administration of--------

D. of-------- Correspondence with the Office
MONTHLY STATEMENT
of the contents of the mails from the office of-------- , for the office of-------Departure of--------at--------- o'clock of the--------Month of--------, 187--.

NUMBERS OF THE ITEMS OF THE ACCOUNTS.

Dates.
1
1 2 3 4

I. Credit of the des-
patching exchange Office.

2

Fr.

Cs.

II. Credit of the receiving exchange Office.

a. Ordinary correspondence. 3

Fr.

Cs.

b. Registered correspondence. 4

Fr.

Cs.

Observations. 5

6

7

8

9

i

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

Totals.

TREATY--GENEBAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

621

Administration des Postes d --

E.
COMPTE
des etats mensaels des feuilles d'avis des bureaux -------pour les bureaux-------Mois d--------187--

Correspondance avec I'Office d ----

w N os. d 'ordre.

Designation des depeches.

Origine. 2

Destination. 3

NUM^ROS DES ARTICLES DES COMPTES.

I. Avoir de rotlice d'6change expdditeur.
4 Fr. Cs.

II. Avoir de 1'Office d'6change destinataire.

a. Objets ordinaires.
5

b. Objets recommandos.
6

Fr. Cs. Fr. Cs.

Observations. 7

Totaux.

Postal Administration of-.

E. ACCOUNT

Correspondence with the Office of--.

of the monthly statements of the letter-bills from the offices of------- for the offices of --------
Month of-------- , 187--.

Nos. of order.

NUMBERS OF THE ITEMS OF ACCOUNT.

Description of the mails.

Origin. 2

Destination. 3

I. Credit of the despatch-
ing exchange Of-
fice.
4

II. Credit of the receiving ex
change Office.

a. Ordinary correspond-
ence.
5

b. Registered correspond-
ence. 6

Fr. Cs. Fr. Cs. Fr. Cs.

Observations. 7

Totals ..

622

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1871.

Office expbditeur

Office destinataire reexpediteur

TRANSIT A DECOUVERT.
TABLEAU
indiquant les prix de transit pour les correspondances transmises d decouvert par V Office des Postes d--------
a 1'Office des Postes d--------

Pays de destination on. de sortie.

Prix do transit par kilogramme

de lettres. 3 Fr.

de journaux etc.
4
Cs.

pour le parcours par 5

Observations. 6

h- N Md 'ordre.

Despatching Office

F. Deceiving re-forwarding Office

OPEN TRANSIT.
TABLE
showing the rates of transit for the correspondence-transmitted in open mails by the Postal Office of--------
to the Postal Office of--------

Nos. of order.

Country of destination or of departure. 2

Transit rate per kilogram--

on letters. 3 Fr.

on newspapers, etc. 4

for the conveyance through 5

Cs.

Observations. 6

TREATY--GENEBAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9,1874.

623

Office expediteur

Office destinataire reexpediteur

TRANSIT A DECOUVERT.
d ep ec he
du bureau d'echange d-------pour le bureau d'echange d-------expedice le--------187-- a------ h. ------m. du------

Prix de transit par kilo- Declaration du bureau

N

gramme.

d'echange expediteur.

d'

ordre Pays de destination ou de sortie.

de lettres. de journaux Lettres.

Journaux.

etc.

etc.

1

3

4

6

Fr.

Cs.

Grammes. Grammes.

Verification du bureau d'echange destinataire.

Lettres. 7
Grammes.

Journaux etc. 8
Grammes.

Despatching Office

G.
OPEN TRANSIT.
MAIL from the exchange office of ------for the exchange office of-------sent the ----, 187--, at-------- o, clock of the-------- .

Receiving re-forwarding Office

Nos. of order.

Country of destination or of departure. 2

Kate of transit per kilo- Statement of the despatch- Verification from the re-

gram--

ing exchange office.

ceiving exchange office.

on letters. 3 Fr.

on newspapers, etc. 4 Cs.

Letters. 5
Grams.

Newspapers, etc. 6
Grams.

Letters. 7
Grams.

Newspapers, etc. 8
Grams.

624

TREATY--GENERAL POSTAL UNION. Oct . 9, 1874.

Office expediteur

H.
TRANSIT CLOS.
Depeches du Bureau d'echange ------pour le Bureau d'echange-------expedites en transit par----- --

Office destinataire

Dates.

DEPECHE du bureau d'echange--------
pour le bureau d'echange--------
Poids net.

DEPECHE du bureau d'echange--------
pour le bureau d'echange--------
Poids net.

DEPECHE du bureau d'echange--------
pour le bureau d'echange--------
Poids net.

Lettres.

Journaux etc.

Lettres.

Journaux etc.

Lettres.

Journaux etc.

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

Grammes.

Grammes.

Grammes.

Grammes.

Grammes.

Grammes.

Totaux ..
-------- le--------- 187-- Le Ohef du Bureau d'echange destinataire:
Vu et accepts: -------- le--------- 187--
Le Ohef du Bureau d'echange expediteur :

Despatching Office

II.
CLOSED TRANSIT.
Mails from the exchange office of-------for the exchange office of-------sent in transit through-------- .

Deceiving Office

Dates.

MAIL

MAIL

MAIL

from the exchange office of-------- from the exchange office of-------- from the exchange office of-------to the exchange office of-------- . for the exchange office of----- . for the exchange office of--------.

Net weight.

Net weight.

Net weight.

Letters.

Newspapers, etc.

Letters.

Newspapers, etc.

Letters.

Newspapers, etc.

1

2

3

4

7

Grams.

Grams.

Grams.

Grams.

Grams.

Grams.

Totals ...
-
--------the---------, 187-- Chief of receiving exchange office :
Examined and accepted: ---- -- the --187--
Chief of despatching exchange office:

