PUBLIC ACTS OF THE FORTY-FOURTH CONGRESS
OP THE
UNITED STATES,
Passed at the first session, which was begun and held at the city of Washington, in the District of Columbia, on Monday, the sixth day of December, 1875, and was adjourned without day on Tuesday, the fifteenth day of August, 1876.
Ulys ses S. Grant , President. Tho mas W. Ferr y was chosen President of the Senate pro tempore on the nineteenth of March, 1875, in special session, and continued to act as such until the termination of that session, and from the beginning of the regular session on the sixth of December, 1875, until its termination on the fifteenth of August, 1816. Mich ae l C. Kerr was elected Speaker of the House of Representatives on the sixth of December, 1875, and continued to act as such until the first of May, 1876, when he authorized Samu el S. Cox to act in his stead as Speaker pro tempore. On the twelfth of May, 1816, Samuel S. Cox was elected Speaker pro tempore, and on the twenty-fourth of June, 1876, Milton Sayle r was elected Speaker pro tempore and continued to act as such until the end of the session.

CHAP. 1.--An act to extend the duration of the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the existence of the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims, created by the act entitled "An act for the creation of a court for the adjudication and disposition of certain moneys received into the Treasury under an award made by the tribunal of arbitration constituted by virtue of the first article of the treaty concluded at Washington the eighth of May, anno Domini eighteen hundred and seventy-one, between the United States of America and the Queen of Great Britain", be, and the same is hereby, continued and extended to the twenty-second day of July next, with the same effect and no other as if said last named day had been named in said act for the termination of the powers of said court and said act is hereby continued in force during said period.
Sec . 2. That the powers of the clerk of said court are hereby extended for an additional period, not to exceed two months from and after the termination of the existence of the court, for the purpose of closing his accounts, depositing the records, documents, and all other papers in the possession of the court or its officers, in the office of the Secretary of State, as provided in said act; and all disbursements made by him during this period shall be under the direction of the Secretary of State.
Approved, December 24, 1875.

Dec. 24, 1875. Post, pp. 3,6, 32, 96. Court ofComm issioners of Alabama Claims continued.
1874, ch. 459. 18 Stat., 245. Treaties, 356.
Powers of clerk of court extended.
Accoun t s and records.
Disbursements.

CHAP. 2.--Au act to declare the road leading from Concordia Kentucky to Mooleyville Kentucky a post road.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the road leading from Concordia, or Flint Island post office, in Kentucky to Mooleyville Kentucky, be, and the same is hereby declared to be and established as a post road.

Approved, January 18, 1876.

1

x ix------ 1

Jan. 18, 1876. Post-road estab1 i s U e d in Kentucky.

CONVENTION--HAWAIIAN ISLANDS. Jan . 30, 1875.

625

Convention between the United States of America and His Majesty the King of the Hawaiian Islands. Commercial Reciprocity. Concluded January 30,1875; Ratification advised by Senate March 18,1875 ; Ratified by President May 31,1875; Ratified by King of Hawaiian Islands April 17, 1875; Ratifications exchanged at Washington June 3, 1875; Proclaimed June 3, 1875.

Jan. 30, 1875.
Post, p. 666.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas a Convention between the United States of America and His Majesty the King of the Hawaiian Islands, on the subject of Commercial Reciprocity, was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries, at the city of Washington, on the thirtieth day of January, one

. Preamble.

thousand eight hundred and seventy-five, which convention, as amended by the contracting parties, is word for word as follows:

The United States of America and His Majesty the King of the Ha- Contracting parwaiian Islands, equally animated by the desire to strengthen and per- ties. petuate the friendly relations which have heretofore, uniformly existed between them, and to consolidate their commercial intercourse, have resolved to enter into a Convention for Commercial Reciprocity. For this

purpose, the President of the United States has conferred full powers on Hamilton Fish, Secretary of State, and His Majesty the King of the Hawaiian Islands has conferred like powers on Honorable Elisha H.

Allen, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Chancellor of the Kingdom, Member of the Privy Council of State, His Majesty's Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to the United States of America, and Honorable Henry A. P. Carter, Member of the Privy Council of State, His Majesty's Special Commissioner to the United States of America.
And the said Plenipotentiaries, after having exchanged their full powers, which were found to be in due form, have agreed to the following articles.

Arti cle I.
For and in consideration of the rights and privileges granted by His Hawaiian p r oMajesty the King of the Hawaiian Islands in the next succeeding article ducts to be adof this convention and as an equivalent therefor, the United States of mitted free of duty. America hereby agree to admit all the articles named in the following schedule, the same being the growth and manufacture or produce of the Hawaiian Islands, into all the ports of the United States free of duty.

SCHEDULE.
Arrow-root; castor oil; bananas; nuts, vegetables, dried and undried, preserved and unpreserved; hides and skins undressed; rice; pulu; seeds, plants, shrubs or trees; muscovado, brown, and all other unrefined sugar, meaning hereby the grades of sugar heretofore commonly imported from the Hawaiian Islands and now known in the markets of San Francisco and Portland as " Sandwich Island sugar;" syrups of sugar-cane, melado, and molasses; tallow.

Schedule.

xix----- 40

626

CONVENTION--HAWAIIAN ISLANDS. Jan . 30,1875.

Article II.

American p r o- For and in consideration of the rights and privileges granted by the ducts to be ad- United States of America in the preceding article of this convention,
mitted free of duty.
and as an equivalent therefor, His Majesty, the King of the Hawaiian Islands hereby agrees to admit all the articles named in the following schedule, the same being the growth, manufacture or produce of the United States of America, into all the ports of the Hawaiian Islands, free of duty.
SCHEDULE.

Schedule.

Agricultural implements; animals; beef, bacon, pork, ham and all fresh, smoked or preserved meats; boots and shoes; grain, flour, meal and bran, bread and breadstuffs, of all kinds; bricks, lime and cement; butter, cheese, lard, tallow, bullion; coal; cordage, naval stores including tar, pitch, resin, turpentine raw and rectified ; copper and composition sheathing; nails and bolts; cotton and manufactures of cotton bleached, and unbleached, and whether or not colored, stained, painted or printed ; eggs ; fish and oysters, and all other creatures living in the water, and the products thereof; fruits, nuts, and vegetables, green, dried or undried, preserved or unpreserved; hardware; hides, furs, skins and pelts, dressed or undressed; hoop iron, and rivets, nails, spikes and bolts, tacks, brads or sprigs ; ice; iron and steel and manufactures thereof; leather; lumber and timber of all kinds, round, hewed, sawed, and unmanufactured in whole or in part; doors, sashes and blinds; machinery of all kinds, engines and parts thereof; oats and hay ; paper, stationery and books, and all manufactures of paper or of paper and wood ; petroleum and all oils for lubricating or illuminating purposes; plants, shrubs, trees and seeds; rice; sugar, refined or unrefined; salt; soap; shooks, staves and headings; wool and manufactures of wool, other than ready made clothing; wagons and carts for the purposes of agriculture or of drayage; wood and manufactures of wood, or of wood and metal except furniture either upholstered or carved and carriages; textile manufactures, made of a combination of wool, cotton, silk or linen, or of any two or more of them other than when ready made clothing; harness and all manufactures of leather; starch; and tobacco, whether in leaf or manufactured.

Article III.

Evidence as to The evidence that articles proposed to be admitted into the ports of

growth, manufact- the United States of America, or the ports of the Hawaiian Islands, free

ure, &c , how tablished.

es-

of

duty,

under

the

first and

second

articles of

this convention,

are the

growth, manufacture or produce of the United States of America or

of the Hawaiian Islands respectively shall be established under such

rules and regulations and conditions for the protection of the revenue

as the two Governments may from time to time respectively prescribe.

Arti cle IV.

No export duty to be imposed on free articles.
No lease, &c., of Hawaiian ports, and no other nation to have same privileges as Uni ted States.

No export duty or charges shall be imposed in the Hawaiian Islands or in the United States, upon any of the articles proposed to be admitted into the ports of the United States or the ports of the Hawaiian Islands free of duty, under the first and second articles of this convention. It is agreed, on the part of His Hawaiian Majesty, that, so long as this treaty shall remain in force, he will not lease or otherwise dispose of or create any lien upon any port, harbor, or other territory in his dominions, or grant any special privilege or rights of use therein, to any other power, state or government, nor make any treaty by which any other nation shall obtain the same privileges, relative to the admission of any articles free of duty, hereby secured to the United States.

CONVENTION--HAWAIIAN ISLANDS. Jan . 30, 1875.

627

Article V.

The present convention shall take effect as soon as it shall have been approved and proclaimed by His Majesty the King of the Hawaiian Islands, and shall have been ratified and duly proclaimed on the part of the Government of the United States, but not until a law to carry it into operation shall have been passed by the Congress of the United States of America. Such assent having been given and the ratifications of the convention having been exchanged as provided in article
VI, the convention shall remain in force for seven years, from the date at which it may come into operation; and further, until the expiration of twelve months after either of the high contracting parties shall give notice to the other of its wish to terminate the same; each of the high contracting parties being at liberty to give such notice to the other at the end of the said term of seven years, or at any time thereafter.

When to take effect,.
Post, p. 668.
How long to remain in force.

Art icl e VI.

The present convention shall be duly ratified, and the ratifications exchanged at Washington city, within eighteen months from the date

hereof, or earlier if possible. In faith whereof the respective Plenipotentiaries of the high contract-
ing parties have signed this present convention, and have affixed thereto

their respective seals.

Done in duplicate, at Washington, the thirtieth day of January, in

the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-five.

[se al ]

HAMILTON FISH.

I sea l .] [sea l .]

ELISHA H. ALLEN. HENRY A. P. CARTER.

Exchange of ratifications.
Signature.

And whereas the said convention, as amended, has been duly ratified on both parts, and the respective ratifications were exchanged in this city on this day :
Now, therefore, be it known that I, Uly sse s S. Gran t , President of the United States of America, have caused the said convention to be made public, to the end that the same, and every clause and article thereof, may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the city of Washington this third day of June, in the year of

[sea l .]

our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-five, and of the Independence of the United States the ninetyninth.

By the President:

U. S. GRANT.

Hami lton Fish , Secretary of State.

Ratification. Proclamation.

AGREEMENT WITH JAPAN. April 26, 1875.

635

Agreement between the United States of America and the Umpire of Japan, for the prepayment in full to destination of the postage on newspapers and other articles of printed matter, patterns and samples of merchandise exchanged in the mails between the two countries.

April 26,1875.

The undersigned being thereunto duly authorized by their respective Governments have agreed to replace the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article III of the Postal Convention between the United States of America and the Empire of Japan signed at Washington on the 6th day of August A. D. 1873, or the sixth day of the eighth month of the sixth year of Meiji, with the following paragraph, viz:
"There shall be levied, collected and retained to its own use by the post office of the country of origin an international postage of 4 cents, or 4 sen on each newspaper, not exceeding four ounces in weight, and of 4 cents or 4 sen for each weight of two ounces or fraction of two

ounces on all other articles of printed matter, patterns and samples of merchandise, which postage shall be in full of all charges to destination

in the country of delivery." This agreement shall be carried into operation on the 1st day of July
A. D. 1875, or the first day of the seventh month of the eighth year of

Meiji, and shall supersede from that date the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article III of the aforesaid Convention.
Done in duplicate and signed at Washington this twenty-sixth day of

April, one thousand eight hundred and seventy five.

[l . s.]

MARSHALL JEWELL,

Postmaster General of the United States.

YOSHIDA KIYONARI

His Imperial Japanese Majesty's Envoy Extraordinary and

Minister Plen ipotentiary to the U. S. of America.

Contracting par ties.
Amendment of postal convention of Aug. 6,1873.
Rates of postage on newspapers, &c
Date of commencement.
Signatures.

I hereby approve the aforegoing Agreement and in testimony thereof I have caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

[l . S.]

U. S. GRANT.

By the President:

Hami lt on Fish , Secretary of State.

Wash ing to n , April 27,1875.

[Translation.]

I hereby approve the foregoing Agreement, and in testimony thereof have caused the seal of the Empire of Japan to be affixed.

[L. s.]

MUTSUHIT0.

The 15th day of the 6th month of the 8th year, Maiji.

Approval.

By order of His Majesty;
Tera shi ma Mun eno ri , Minister for Foreign Affairs.

636 AMENDED ARTICLE--NEW SOUTH WALES. Jun e 1 and July 20, 1875.

June 1 and July Amended article to replace Article Three of the postal convention between

20,1875.

the United States of America and the colonial government of New South

Wales, signed at Washington the loth day of January, A. D. 1874.

Contracting parties.
Amendment of postal convention of Jan. 15, 1874. Ante, p. 1.
No accounts to be kept.
Rates of postage and weight of letters.
Unpaid or shortpaid letters.
Rates of postage on newspapers,&c.
On other printed matter, &c.
Free delivery. Newspapers, &c., subject to laws of each country.
Signatures.

The undersigned being thereunto duly authorized by their respective Governments, have agreed to replace Article 3 of the Postal Convention of 15th January,1874. by the following article.

Article 3.

No accounts shall be kept between the Post Departments of the two

countries upon the international correspondence, written or printed,

exchanged between them, but each country shall retain to its own use

the postage which it collects.

The single rate of international letter-postage shall be 12 cents in the

United States, and sixpence in New South Wales, on each letter weigh-

ing half an ounce or less, and an additional rate of 12 cents (sixpence)

for each single weight of half an ounce or fraction thereof, which shall

in all cases, be prepaid at least one single rate, by means of postage-

stamps, at the office of mailing in either country. Letters unpaid, or

prepaid less than one full rate of postage shall not be forwarded, but

insufficiently paid letters on which a single rate or more has been pre-

paid, shall be forwarded, charged with the deficient postage to be col-

lected and retained by the Post Department of the country of destination.

The United States Post Office shall levy and collect to its own use,

on newspapers addressed to New South Wales, a postage charge of 2

cents; and on all other articles of printed matter, patterns and samples

of merchandise addressed to New South Wales, a postage charge of 4

cents per each weight of four ounces or fraction of four ounces.

The Post Office of New South Wales shall levy and collect to its own

use, on newspapers and other articles of printed matter, patterns and

samples of merchandise addressed to the United States, the regular

rates of domestic postage chargeable thereon by the laws and regula-

tions of the Colony of New South Wales.

Letters, newspapers, and other articles of printed matter, patternsand

samples of merchandise, fully prepaid, which may be received in either

country from the other, shall be delivered free of all charge whatever.

Newspapers, and all other kinds of printed matter and patterns and

samples of merchandise are to be subject to the laws and regulations of

each country respectively, in regard to their liability to be rated with

letter-postage when containing written matter, or for any other cause

specified in said laws and regulations, as well as in regard to their lia-

bility to customs duty under the revenue laws.

The provisions of this amended article shall be carried into operation

on the 1st of July, A. D. 1875.

Done in duplicate and signed at Washington the twentieth day of

July, 1875, and at Sydney the first day of June. 1875.

[L. s.]

MARSHALL JEWELL,

Postmaster General of the United States.

[L. s.]

J. T. BURNS,

Postmaster General of New South Wales.

Approval.

I hereby approve the aforegoing amended article,and in testimony thereof I have caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

[L. s.]
By the President:
Hamil to n Fish ,

U. S. GRANT.

Secretary of State.

Washi ngton , July 29, 1875.

POSTAL CONVENTION--QUEENSLAND. Dec . 8, 1875, and Feb . 2, 1876. 637

Postal Convention between the United States of America and the Colonial Dec. 8, 1875, and

Government of Queensland.

Feb. 2,1876.

The undersigned, being thereunto duly authorized by their respective Governments, have agreed upon the following articles, establishing and regulating the exchange of correspondence between the United States of America and the colony of Queensland:

Article I.

There shall

be

an

exchange of

correspondence

between

the

United

Exchange mails.

of

States of America and Queensland by means of the direct line of colonial

mail-packets plying between San Francisco and New South Wales, as

well as by such other means of direct mail-steamship transportation between the United States and New South Wales as shall hereafter be established with the approval of the respective post departments of the countries concerned, comprising letters, newspapers, printed matter

of every kind, and patterns and samples of merchandise, originating in either country and addressed to and deliverable in the other country, as well as correspondence in closed mails originating in Queensland and

destined for foreign countries by way of the United States.

Article II.

The post-office of San Fancisco shall be the United States office of Offices of exexchange, and Brisbane the office of exchange of the colony of Queens- change. land, for all mails transmitted under this arrangement.

Article III.

No accounts shall be kept between the post-departments of the two countries upon the international correspondence, written or printed, exchanged between them, but each country shall retain to its own use the postages which it collects.
The single rate of international letter-postage shall be twelve cents in the United States, and sixpence in Queensland on each letter weighing half an ounce or less, and an additional rate of twelve cents (sixpence) for each single weight of half an ounce or fraction thereof, which shall in all cases be prepaid at least one single rate by means of postage stamps at the office of dispatch in either country. Letters unpaid, or prepaid less than one full rate of postage, shall not be forwarded, but insufficiently paid letters, on which a single rate or more has been prepaid, shall be forwarded charged with the deficient postage to be collected and retained by the post-department of the country of destination.
The United States post office shall levy and collect to its own use on newspapers addressed to Queensland a postage charge of two cents, and on all other articles of printed matter, patterns, and samples of
merchandise addressed to Queensland, a postage charge of four cents per each weight of four ounces or fraction of four ounces.
The post office of Queensland shall levy and collect to its own use on newspapers addressed to the United States a postage charge of two cents, and on other articles of printed matter, patterns, and samples of merchandise addressed to the United States, a postage charge of four cents per each weight of two ounces or fraction of two ounces.
Letters, newspapers, and other articles of printed matter, patterns, and samples of merchandise, fully prepaid, which may be received in either country from the other, shall be delivered free of all charge whatsoever.

No accounts to be kept.
Single-letter rate.
Unpaid or short paid letters.
Newspaper rate. Printed matter, etc. Newspaper rates. Printed matter, etc. Free delivery.

<

638 POSTAL CONVENTION--QUEENSLAND. Dec . 8, 1875, an d Feb . 2, 187G.

Newspapers, etc., containing written matter.
Customs duties.

Newspapers and all other kinds of printed matter, and patterns, and samples of merchandise are to be subject to the laws and regulations of each country, respectively, in regard to their liability to be rated with letter postage when containing written matter, or for any other cause specified in said laws and regulations, as well as in regard to their liability to customs duty under revenue laws.

Article IV.

Closed-mail transit across United States.
Rates by landroutes.
Rates by land and sea routes.
Accounts to be rendered.
To be settled quarterly.

The United States office engages to grant the transit through the United States, as well as the conveyance by United States mail-packets, of the correspondence in closed mails which the Queensland post office may desire to transmit via the United States to British Columbia, the British North American provinces, the West Indies, Mexico, Central and South America, and at the following rates of United States
transit-postage, viz: For the United States territorial transit of closed mails from Queens-
land for Mexico, British Columbia, Canada, or other British NorthAmerican Provinces, when transmitted entirely by land-routes, six cents per ounce for letter-mails and sixteen cents per pound for all kinds of printed matter.
For the United States territorial and sea transit of closed mails from Queensland for British Columbia or other British North American Provinces, Mexico, Central and South America, or the West India Islands, when transmitted from the United States by sea, twenty-five cents per ounce for letter-mails, and twenty cents per pound for all kinds of printed matter.
The Queensland post office shall render an account to the United States post office, upon letter-bills to accompany each mail, of the weight of the letters, and also of the printed and other matter contained in such closed mails, forwarded to the United States for transmission to either of the above-named countries and colonies, and the accounts arising between the two offices on this class of correspondence shall be stated, adjusted, and settled quarterly, and the amounts of the United States transit-charges found due on such closed mails shall be promptly paid over by the Queensland post office to the United States post office in such manner as the Postmaster-General of the United States shall prescribe.

Arti cle V.

Letters from for- Prepaid letters from foreign countries received in and forwarded from eign countries and the United States to Queensland shall be delivered in said colony free to other colonies. of all charges whatsoever, and letters received in Queensland from the
United States addressed to other colonies of Australia will be forwarded to destination subject to the same conditions as are applicable to correspondence originating in Queensland and addressed to those countries

*

Arti cle VI.

Registered arti- The two post-departments may, by mutual agreement, provide for

cles.

the transmission of registered articles in the mails exchanged between

the two countries. Registration fee. The register-fee for each article shall be ten cents in the United States

and fourpence in Queensland.

Arti cle VII.

Details, how set- The two post-departments shall settle by agreement between them all

tled.

measures of detail and arrangement required to carry this convention

Modification.

into execution, and may modify the same in like manner, from time to time, as the exigencies of the service may require.
%

POSTAL CONVENTION--QUEENSI AND. Dec . 8, 1875, and Feb . 2, 187G. 639

Arti cle VIII.

Every fully prepaid letter dispatched from one country to the other shall be plainly stamped with the words "paid all," in red ink, on the right-hand upper corner of the address, in addition to the date-stamp of the office at which it was posted, and on insufficiently-paid letters the amount of the deficient postage shall be inscribed in black vnk.

Marks on letters.

Article IX.

Dead letters, which cannot be delivered from whatsoever cause, shall be mutually returned, without charge, monthly, or as frequently as the regulations of the respective offices will permit.

Dead letters.

Article X.

This convention shall come into operation on the 1st day of January, Commencement 1876, and shall be terminable at any time on a notice, by either office, and termination. of six months.

Done in duplicate and signed in Brisbane, the eighth day of Decem-

ber, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-

five, and in Washington on the second day of February, one thousand

eight hundred and seventy-six.

[SEAL.]

MARSHALL JEWELL,

Postmaster- General of the United States.

GEORGE THORN, Junio r , Postmaster-General of Queensland.

Approved. Ewd . Cairn s .

Signatures.

I hereby approve the aforegoing convention, and in testimony thereof

I have caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

[sea l .]

U. S. GRANT.

By the President:

Hamil ton Fish , Secretary of State.

Wash ing to n , February 5, 1876.

Approval.

628

TREATY WITH BELGIUM. March 8, 1875.

March 8,1875.

Treaty between the United States of America and His Majesty the King of the Belgians. Commerce and navigation. Concluded March 8,1875; Ratification advised by Senate March 10,1875; Ratified by the President March 16,1875; Ratified by the King of the Belgians June 10,1875; Ratifications exchanged at Brussels June 11, 1875; Proclaimed June 29,
1875.

Preamble.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
A PROCLAMATION.
Whereas a Treaty of Commerce and Navigation between the United States of America and His Majesty the King of the Belgians was concluded and signed at Washington by their respective Plenipotentiaries on the eighth day of March, eighteen hundred and seventy-five, the original of which treaty, being in the English and French languages, is word for word as follows:

Contracting par- The United States of America

ties.

ou the one part, and His Majesty

the King of the Belgians on the

other part, wishing to regulate in

a formal manner their reciprocal

relations of commerce and navigation, and further to strengthen,

through the development of their interests, respectively, the bonds of friendship and good understanding so happily established between

the governments and people of the two countries; and desiring with this view to conclude, by common agreement, a treaty establishing conditions equally advantageous to the commerce and navigation of both States, have to that effect appointed as their Plenipotentiaries,

namely: The President of the United States, Hamilton Fish, Secretaryof Stateof the United States, and His Majesty the King of the

Belgians Maurice Delfosse, Commander of the Order of Leopold, &c., &c., his Envoy Extraordinary

and Minister Plenipotentiary in the United States; who, after having communicated to each other their full powers, ascertained to be in good and proper form, have agreed to and concluded the following ar-

ticles :

Sa Majesty le Roi des Beiges, d'une part, et les Stats-Unis d'Amerique, d'autre part, voulant regler d'une maniere formelie les relations reciproques de commerce et de navigation, et fortifier de plus en plus, par le d6veloppement des interets respectifs, les
liens d'amitie et de bonne intelligence si heureusement etablis entre les deux gouvernements et les deux peuples; desirant, dans ce but, arreter decommun accord un traite stipulant des conditions egalement avantageuses au commerce et a la navigation des deux etats, ont a cet effet nomme pour leurs Plenipotentiaires, savoir: Sa Majesty le Roi des Beiges, le Sieur Maurice Delfosse, Commandeur de 1'Ordre de Leopold, &c., &c., son Envoye Extraordinaire et Ministre Plenipo-
tentiaire aux Stats-Unis, et le President des Stats-Unis, Hamilton Fish, Secretaire d'Stat des StatsUnis; lesquels, apres s'etre communique leurs pleins pouvoirs, trouves en bonne et due forme, out arrete et conclu les articles suivants :

Article I.

Art icl e I.

Reciprocal free- There shall be full and entire freedom of commerce dom of commerce and navigation
and navigation.
between the inhabitants of the two

Il y aura pleine et entiere liberty de commerce et de navigation entre les habitants des deux pays, et la

TREATY WITH BELGIUM. March 8, 1875.

629

countries, and the same security and protection which is enjoyed by the citizens or subjects of each country shall be guaranteed on both sides. The said inhabitants, whether established or temporarily residing within any ports, cities, or places whatever of the two countries, shall not, on account of their commerce or industry, pay any other or higher duties, taxes, or imposts than those which shall be levied on citizens or subjects of the country in which they may be ; and the privileges, immunities, and other favors, with regard to commerce or industry, enjoyed by the citizens or subjects of one of the two States, shall be common to those of the other.

meme securite et protection dont jouissent les nationaux, seront garanties des deux parts. Ces habitants ne paieront point, a raison de leur commerce ou de leur Industrie, dans les ports, villes, ou lieux quelconques des deux etats, soit qu'ils s'y etablissent, soit qu'ils y resident temporairement, des droits, taxes, ou impdts autres ou plus sieves que ceux qui se percevront surles nationaux ; et les privileges, immunites, et autres favours, dont jouissent en matiere de commerce ou d'industrie les citoyens ou sujets de 1'un des deux btats, seront communs a ceux de 1'autre.

No discriminating taxes, &c., to be laid.

Article II.

Article II.

Belgian vessels, whether coming from a Belgian or a foreign port, shall not pay, either on entering or leaving the ports of the United States, whatever may be their destination, any other or higher duties
of tonnage, pilotage, anchorage, buoys, light-houses, clearance, brokerage, or generally other charges whatsoever, than are required from vessels of the United States in similar cases. This provision extends, not only to duties levied for the benefit of the State, but also to those levied f or the benefit of provinces, cities, countries, districts, townships, corporations, or any other division or jurisdiction, whatever may be its designation.

Les navires belges, venant d'un port belge ou d'un port stranger, ne paieront point a leur entree dans les ports des Etats-Unis, ou a leur sortie, quelle que soit leur destination, d'autres ni de plus forts droits de tonnage, de pilotage, d'ancrage, de balisage, de feux et de fanaux, d'expedition et de courtage, ni generalement d'autres
charges que celles exigees des bailments de 1'Union dans les memes cas. Ce qui precede s'entend, non seulement des droits pergus au profit de 1'etat, mais encore de tous droits pergus au profit des provinces, villes, arrondissements, communes, juridictions, corporations, etc., sous quelque terme qu'elles puissent etre designees.

Dues to be paid by Belgian ships.

Art icl e HI.

Arti cle III.

Reciprocally, vessels of the United States, whether coming from a port of said States or from a foreign port, shall not pay, either on entering or leaving the ports of Belgium, whatever may be their destination, any other or higher duties
of tonnage, pilotage, anchorage, buoys, light-houses, clearance, brokerage, or generally other charges whatever, than are required from Belgian vessels, in similar cases. This provision extends not only to duties levied for the benefit of the State, but also to those levied for the benefit of provinces, cities,

Reciproquement, les navires des Etats-Unis, venant d'un port national ou d'un port stranger, ne paieront point leur entree dans les ports de Belgique ou a leur sortie, quelle que soit leur destination, d'autres ni de plus forts droits de tonnage, de pilotage, d'ancrage, de balisage, de feux et de fanaux, d'expedition et de courtage, ni generalement d'autres charges, que celles exigees des bailments belges dans les memes cas. Ce qui precede s'entend non seulement des droits pergus au profit de 1'etat, mais encore de tous droits pergus

Dues to be paid by American ships.

630

TREATY WITH BELGIUM. Marc h 8, 1875.

countries, districts, townships, corporations, or any other division or jurisdiction, whatever may be its designation.

au profit des provinces, villes, arrondissements, communes, juridictions, corporations, &c., sous quelque terme qu'elles puissent etre designees.

Coasting trade.

Arti cle IV. As regards the coasting trade between the ports of either country, the vessels of the two nations shall be treated on both sides on the same footing with the vessels of the most favored nations.

Articl e IV.
En ce qui concerne 1'exercice du cabotage (commerce de port a port), les navires des deux nations seront traittis, de part et d'autre, sur le meme pied que les navires des nations les plus favorisees.

Arti cle V.

Article V.

Duties on articles imported under either flag.

Objects of any kind soever intro-, duced into the ports of either of
the two States under the flag of the other, whatever may be their origin and from what country soever the importation thereof may have been made, shall not pay other or higher entrance duties, nor shall be subjected to other charges or restrictions than they would pay, or be subjected to, were they imported under the national flag.

Les objets de toute nature imports dans les ports de 1'un des deux titats, sous pavilion de 1'autre, quelle que soit leur origine et de quelque pays qu'ait lieu 1'importation, ne paieront d'autres ni de plus forts droits d'entree, et ne seront assujetis a d'autres charges ou restrictions que s'ils etaient imports sous pavillon national.

Artic le VI.

Duties, &c., on articles exported under either flag.

Articles of every description exported by Belgian vessels, or by those of the United States of America, from the ports of either country to any country whatsoever, shall be subjected to no other duties or formalities than such as are required for exportation under the flag of the country where the shipment is made.

Art icl e VI.
Les objets de toute nature quelconque exports par navires belges ou par ceux des Etats-Unis d'Amerique des ports de 1'un ou de 1'autre de ces etats vers quelque pays que ce soit, ne seront assujetis a des droits ou a des formalites autres que ceux exiges pour 1'exportation par pavilion national.

Article VII.

Premiums, drawbacks, &c.

All premiums, drawbacks, or other favors of like nature, which may be allowed in the States of either of the contracting parties upon goods imported or exported in national vessels, shall be likewise and in the same manner, allowed upon goods imported directly from one of the two countries by its vessels into the other, or exported from one of the two countries by the vessels of the other to any destination whatsoever.

Arti cle VII.
Les primes, restitutions, ou autres faveurs de cette nature, qui pourraient etre accordees dans les titats des deux parties contractantes, sur des marchandises importees ou exportees, par des navires nationaux, seront aussi, et de la meme maniere, accordees aux marchandises importees directement de 1'un des deux pays sur ses navires dans 1'autre, ou exportties de 1'un des deux pays, par les navires de 1'autre, vers quelque destination que ce soit.

TREATY WITH BELGIUM. March 8, 1875.

631

Arti cle VIII.

Artic le VIII.

The preceding article is, however, not to apply to the importation of the produce of the national fisher-
ies ; each of the two parties reserving to itself the faculty of granting special privileges for the importation of those articles under its ownflag.

11 est neanmoins deroge aux dispositions qui precedent pour 1'importation des produits de la peche nationale; les deux pays se reservant la faculty d'accorder aux importations de ces articles par pavilion national des privileges speciaux.

National ies.

fisher-

Arti cle IX.

Article IX.

The high contracting parties agree to consider and to treat as Belgian vessels, and as vessels of the United States, all those which being provided by the competent authority with a passport, sea letter, or any other sufficient document, shall be recognized, conformably with existing laws, as national vessels in the country to which they respectively belong.

Les hautes parties contractantes conviennent de considerer et de traiter comme navires belges, et
comme navires des Etats-Unis, tous ceux qui, etant pourvus par 1'autorite competente d'un passeport, d'une lettre de mer ou de tout autre document suffisant, seront, d'apres les lois existantes, reconnus comme nationaux dans le pays auquel ils appartiennent respectivement.

Identity of vessels, how established.

Artic le X.

Arti cle X.

Belgian vessels and those of the United States may, conformably with the laws of the two countries, retain on board, in the ports of both, such parts of their cargoes as may be destined for a foreign country; and such parts shall not be subjected, either while they remain on board or upon re-exportation, to any charges whatsoever,
other than those for the prevention of smuggling.

Les navires belges et ceux des Etats-Unis pourront, conformement aux lois des deux pays, conserver a leur bord, dans les ports de 1'un et de 1'autre etat, les parties de cargaison qui seraient destinies pour un pays etranger; et ces parties, pendant leur sejour a bord, ou lors de leur reexportation, ne seront astreintes a aucuns droits quelconques, autre que ceux de surveillance.

Parts of cargoes destined for foreign countries.

Art icl e XI.

Arti cle XI.

During the period allowed by the laws of the two countries respectively for the warehousing of goods, no duties, other than those of watch and storage, shall be levied upon articles brought from either country into the other while awaiting transit, re-exportation, or entry for consumption. Such goods shall in no case be subject to higher warehouse charges, or to other formalities, than if they had been imported under the flag of the country.

Pendant le temps fixe par les lois des deux pays respectivement pour I'entreposage des marchandises, il ne sera percu aucuns droits autres que ceux de garde et d'emmagasinage sur les objets importes de 1'un des pays dans 1'autre en attendant leur transit, leur reexportation ou leur mise en consommation. Ces objets, dans aucun cas, ne paieront de plus forts droits d'entrepot et ne seront assujetis a d'autres formalites que s'ils avaient ete imports par pavillon national.

Warehousing goods, charges, &c.

Arti cle XII.

Article XII.

In all that relates to duties of En tout ce qui concerne les droits Duties of cuscustoms and navigation, the two de douane et de navigation, les toms and navigahigh contracting parties promise, deux hautes parties contractantes tion.

632

TREATY WITH BELGIUM. Marc h 8, 1875.

Reciprocal privileges as to favors, &c.
Reciprocal privileges as to products.

reciprocally, not to giant any favor, privilege, or immunity to any other
State which shall not instantly become common to the citizens and subjects of both parties respectively ; gratuitously, if the concession or favor to such other State is gratuitous, and on allowing the same compensation, or its equiva-
lent, if the concession is conditional.
Neither of the contracting parties shall lay upon goods proceeding from the soil or the industry of the other party, which may be imported into its ports, any other or higher duties of importation or reexportation than are laid upon the importation or re-exportation of
similar goods coming from any other foreign country.

Termination this article.

of In case either of the high contracting parties shall announce to the other its desire to terminate this article, the operation and the obligation thereof shall cease and determine at the expiration of one year from the delivery of such notice, leaving, however, the remaining articles of the treaty in force until terminated according to the provisions of article XVI hereinafter.
Article XIII.

se promettent rciproquement de n'accorder aucune faveur, privilege, ou immunite a un autre etat, qui ne soit aussi et a 1'instant etendu a leurs sujets ou citoyens respectifs, gratuitement si la concession en faveur de 1'autre etat est gratuite, et en donnant la meme compensation ou l'equivalent si la concession est conditionnelle.
Ni 1'une ni 1'autre des parties contractantes n'imposeront sur les marchandises provenant du sol ou de 1'industrie de 1'autre partie, qui seront importees dans ses ports, d'autres ni de plus forts droits d'importation ou de reexportation, que ceux qui seront imposes sur 1'importation ou la reexportation de marchandises similaires provenant de tout autre pays etranger.
Si 1'une des hautes parties contractantes notifiait a 1'autre 1'intention d'annuler le present article, il cessera ses effets et obligations a 1'expiration de douze mois apres cette notification, les autres articles du present traite demeurant neanmoins en vigueur jusqu'a denonciation notifiee conformement aux stipulations de Particle XVI ci-apres.
Art icl e XIII.

P r i v i1eges in cases of shipwreck,
&c.

In cases of shipwreck, damages at sea, or forced putting in, each party shall afford to the vessels of the other, whether belonging to the State or to individuals, the same assistance and protection and the same immunities which would have been granted to its own vessels in similar cases.

En cas de naufrage, de dommage en mer, ou de relache forcee, chaque partie accordera aux navires, soit de 1'etat ou de particuliers de 1'autre pays, la meme assistance et protection et les memes immunites que celles qui seraieut accordees a ses propres navires dans les memes cas.

Arti cle XIV.

Arti cle XIV.

Reciprocal free transit.
Limitations.

Articles of all kinds, the transit of which is allowed in the United States, coming from or going to Belgium, shall be exempt from all transit duty in the United States. Reciprocally, articles of all kinds, the transit of which is allowed in Belgium, coming from or going to
the United States, shall be exempt from all transit duty in Belgium. Such transit, whether in the United States or in Belgium, shall be subject, however, to such limitations as to the points between which the

Les objets de toute nature dont le transit est permis en Belgique, venant des Etats-Unis ou exp6dies vers ce pays, seront exempts de tout droit de transit en Belgique. Reciproquement, les objets de toute nature dont le transit est permis aux Etats-Unis, venant de Belgique ou expedies vers ce pays, seront exempts de tout droit de transit aux Etats-Unis. Le transport de ces objets sera toutefois soumis, en Belgique et aux Etats-Unis, quant aux points entre lesquels le transit

TREATY WITH BELGIUM. March 8, 1875.

633

transit may be made, and to such regulations for the protection of the revenue and the prevention of withdrawal of the articles for consumption or use within the country through which the transit is made, as are or may be prescribed by or under the authority of the laws of the countries respectively.

est permis, et quant aux mesures necessaires pour sauvegarder les interets du tresor et pour prevenir le detournement de ces objets pour consommation ou usage dans 1'interieur du pays ou le transit a lieu, aux reglements existants ou qui seront etablis en vertu de la loi dans les deux pays respectivement.

Article XV.
The high contracting parties, desiring to secure complete and efficient protection to the manufacturing industry of their respective citizens, agree that any counterfeiting in one of the two countries of the trade marks affixed in the other on merchandise, to show its origin and quality, shall be strictly prohibited, and shall give ground for an action of damages in favor of the injured party, to be prosecuted in the courts of the country in which the counterfeit shall be proven.
The trade marks in which the citizens of one of the two countries may wish to secure the right of property in the other, must be lodged, to wit: the marks of citizens of the United States, at Brussels, in the office of the clerk of the tribunal of commerce; and the marks of Belgian citizens, at the Patent Office in Washington.
It is understood that if a trade mark has become public property in the country of its origin, it shall be equally free to all in the other country.

Article XV.

Les hautes parties contractantes, desirant assurer une complete et efficace protection a 1'industriema-
nufacturiere de leurs citoyens respectifs, sont convenues que toute reproduction dans 1'un des deux pays des marques de fabrique apposees dans 1'autre sur certaines marchandises, pour constater leur origine et quality, sera severement interdite et pourra donner lieu a une action en dommages-interets valablement exercee par la partie lesee devant lestribunaux du pays ou la contretagon aura ete consta-
tee. Les marques de fabrique dont
les citoyens de 1'un des deux pays voudraient s'assurer la propriete exclusive dans 1'autre, devront etre deposees, savoir: les marques des citoyens des Etats-Unis, a Bruxelles, au greffe du tribunal de commerce et les marques des citoyens belges, & Washington, au Bureau des Patentes (Patent Office).
Il est entendu que si une marque de fabrique appartient au domaine public dans le pays d'origine, elle ne pourra etre 1'objet d'une jouissance exclusive dans 1'autre pays.

Counterfeiting trade-marks.
Registering trade-marks.
Certain trade marks public property in both conntries.

Article XVI.
The present treaty shall be in force during ten years from the date of the exchange of the ratifications, and until the expiration of twelve months after either of the high contracting parties shall have announced to the other its intention to terminate the operation thereof; each party reserving to itself the right of making such declaration to the other at the end of the ten years above mentioned; and it is agreed that after the expiration of the twelve months of prolongation accorded on both sides, this treaty and all its stipulations shall cease to be in force.

Article XVI.
Le present traite sera en vigueur D u r a t ion and pendant dix ans, a dater du jour termination. de l'echange des ratifications, et au delade ce terme,jusqu'a 1'expiration de douze mois apres que 1'une des hautes parties contractantes aura annonce a 1'autre son intention d'en faire cesser les effets; chacune d'elles se reservant le droit de faire a 1'autre une telle declaration a 1'expiration des dix ans susmentionnes; et il est convenu, qu'apres les douze mois de prolongation accordes de part et d'autre, ce traite et toutes les stipulations qu'il renferme cesseront d'etre obligatoires.

634

TREATY WITH BELGIUM. Marc h 8, 1875.

Arti cle XVII.

Arti cle XVII.

Exchange of rat- This treaty shall be ratified, and

ifications.

the ratifications shall be exchanged

at Brussels within the term of nine

months after its date, or sooner if

possible.

Ce traite sera ratifie et les ratification s seron echangees a Bruxel1es dans le terme de neuf mois apr&s sa date, ou plus tot si faire se peut.

Signatures.

In faith whereof the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the present treaty in duplicate, and have affixed thereto their seals at Washington, the eighth day of March eighteen hundred and seventy five.

Hami lto n Fish .

[sea l .]

Mau rice Delf os se . [sea l .]

En foi de quoi les Plenipotentiaires respectifs ont sign6 le present traite par duplicata, et y ont appose leurs sceaux a Washington, le huit mars mil huit cent soixante-quinze.
[sceau .] Mauri ce Delf os se . [sceau .] Hamil to n Fish .

Ratification. Proclamation.

And whereas the said treaty has been duly ratified on both parts, and

the respective ratifications were exchanged at Brussels on the eleventh instant:

Now, therefore, be it known that I, Ulys ses S. Gran t , President of the United States of America, have caused the said treaty to be made public, to the end that the same, and every clause and article thereof, may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand,and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the city of Washington this twenty-ninth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-five,
[sea l .] and of the Independence of the United States of America the ninety-ninth.

By the President:

U. S. GRANT.

Hami lto n Fish , Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS.

No. 1.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

June 2,1875.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, by theVIIIth section of the act of Congress, entitled "An act for the creation of a court for the adjudication and disposition of cer" tain moneys received into the Treasury under an award made by the

" tribunal of arbitration constituted by virtue of the first article of the " treaty concluded at Washington the eighth of May, anno Domini eight" een hundred and seventy one, between the United States of America " and the Queen of Great Britain,'approved June 23d, 1874, it is provided "that the judges of the court created by this act shall convene in the " city of Washington as soon as conveniently may be after their appoint" ment; and the said court shall exist for one year from the date of its first

" convening and organizing; and should it be found impracticable to " complete the work of the said court before the expiration of the said one " year, the President may, by proclamation, extend the time of the dura" tion thereof to a period not more than six months beyond theexpira" tion of the said one year; and in such case all the provisions of this act " shall be taken and held to be the same as though the continuance of

" the said court had been originally fixed by this act at the limit to which " it may be thus extended."

And whereas it has been made satisfactorily to appear to me that the said court convened on the 22d of July, 1874, and that a large portion of the business of said court still remains undisposed of, and that it is

found impracticable to complete the work of the said court before the expiration of the said one year from its first convening and organizing,

Now therefore, be it known, that I, Uly sse s S. Gran t , President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the provisions Of the said VIIIth section of the act of Congress aforesaid, do hereby extend the time of the duration of said " Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims," for a period of six months from and after the 22d day of July, A. D. 1875.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto signed my name and have caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the city of Washington, this 2d day of June A. D. 1875,

and of the Independence of the United States the ninety[SEAL.] ninth.

By the President

U. S. GRANT.

Hamil ton Fish , Secretary of State.

Preamble. Duration of the " Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims" extended for six months from July 22,1875.

661

662

PROCLAMATIONS.

No. 2.

Oct. 27,1875.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Nov. 25, 1875, set for a day of thanksgiving.

In accordance with a practice at once wise and beautiful, we have been accustomed, as the year is drawing to a close, to devote an occasion to the humble expression of our thanks to Almighty God for the ceaseless and distinguished benefits bestowed upon us as a nation, and for His mercies and protection during the closing year.
Amid the rich and free enjoyment of all our advantages, we should not forget the source from whence they are derived, and the extent of our obligation to the Father of all mercies.
We have full reason to renew our thanks to Almighty God for favors bestowed upon us during the past year.
By His continuing mercy, civil and religious liberty have been maintained, peace has reigned within our borders, labor and enterprise have produced their merited rewards, and to His watchful providence we afe indebted for security from pestilence and other national calamity.
Apart from national blessings, each individual among us has occasion to thoughtfully recall and devoutly recognize the favors and protection which he has enjoyed.
Now, therefore, I, Ulysses S. Grant , President of the United States, do recommend that on Thursday, the 25th day of November, the people of the United States, abstaining from all secular pursuits and from their accustomed avocations, do assemble in their respective places of worship, and, in such form as may seem most appropriate in their own hearts, offer to Almighty God their acknowledgments and thanks for all His mercies, and their humble prayers for a continuance of His divine favor.
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of. the United States to be affixed.
Done at the city of Washington this 27th day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-
[SEAL.] five, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundredth. U. S. GRANT.
By the President: Hami lton Fish , Secretary of State.

March 27,1876. Preamble.

No. 3.
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
A PROCLAMATION. Whereas by the first section of an Act entitled "An Act to authorize "the President to accept for citizens of the United States the jurisdiction " of certain tribunals in the Ottoman Dominions, and Egypt, established, "or to be established, under the authority of the Sublime Porte, and of "the Government of Egypt," approved March 23, 1874, it was enacted as follows: "That whenever the President of the United States shall "receive satisfactory information that the Ottoman Government, or that "of Egypt, has organized other tribunals on a basis likely to secure "to citizens of the United States, in their dominions, the same impartial justice which they now enjoy there under the judicial functions exercised by the Minister, Consuls, and other functionaries of the "United States, pursuant to the Act of Congress approved the twenty" second of June, eighteen hundred and sixty, entitled `An Act to carry

TREATIES AND CONVENTIONS

Convention between the Postal Department of the United States of America June 8 and 23,1875. and the Postal Department of the Dominion of Canada.
The Postal Department of the United States of America and the Contracting parPostal Department of the Dominion of Canada being desirons of estab- ties. lishing an exchange of money-orders between the two countries, the undersigned, duly authorized for that purpose, have agreed upon the following articles:

Articl e I. There shall be a regular exchange of money-orders between the two Exchange of countries for sums received from remitters in one country for payment money-orders. to beneficiaries in the other. The maximum of each order is fixed at forty dollars, gold value, when Maxima. issued in the Dominion of Canada, and when issued in the United States at fifty dollars in the national paper currency of that country, but no money-order shall include the fractional part of a cent.

Articl e II.

The Postal Department of the Dominion of Canada shall have the power to fix the rates of commission on all money-orders issued in the Dominion of Canada, and the Postal Department of the United States shall have the same power in regard to all money-orders issued in the United States.
Each Postal Department shall communicate to the other its tariff of charges or rates of commission, and these rates shall, in all cases, be paid in advance by the remitter, who shall not be entitled to repayment thereof. It is understood, moreover, that each Department is authorized to suspend temporarily, after having given sixty days' notice of such intention to the other, the exchange of money-orders, in case the course of exchange, or any other circumstances, should give rise to abuses or cause detriment to the postal revenue.

Commissions.
Exchange of tariffs.
Suspensions.

Articl e III.
Each country shall keep the commission charged on all money-orders Disposal of comissued within it, but shall pay to the other country one-half of one per missions. cent, on the total amount of such orders.

Articl e IV.

The service of the postal money-order system between the two countries shall be performed exclusively through the agency of offices of

exchange, which shall be established in the United States by the Postmaster-General of that country. Eight such offices are hereby desig-

nated, viz: Bangor, Me.; Boston, Mass.; New York, Ogdensburgh, and Buffalo, N. Y.; Detroit, Mich.; Saint Paul, Minn., and Portland, Oreg., and the number and location of these offices may be changed from time to time by said Postmaster-General as the interests of the service may require.

xx----- 43

(673)

Exchange-offices.

674

CONVENTION--CANADA. June 8 and 23, 1875.

Arti cle V.

Issue of orders. In the United States. In Canada. Duty of postmaster.

Any person in the United States desiring to remit to the Dominion of Canada a sum of money within the limits prescribed by Article I hereof, may pay it into any post-office in the United States designated from time to time by the Postmaster-General of that country for the transaction of Canadian money-order business. Such person shall, at the same time, give the name and address of the person to whom the amount is to be paid in said Dominion, and also his own name and address.
Any person in the Dominion of Canada desiring to remit to the United States a sum of money within the same limits, may pay it into any money-order office of said Dominion, designated by the Postmaster-
General thereof for said purpose, giving at the same time the name and address of the person to whom the amount is to be paid in the United
States, and also his own name and address. The receiving postmaster in either country shall, in accordance with
the rules established by its Postal Department, forward a coupon, an advice, and a money-order to the exchange-office in the United States most convenient to the residence of the beneficiary for whom the money is intended, the postmaster of which exchange-office shall, immediately after the receipt thereof, certify upon the coupon, the advice, and the order, the value of the same in the currency of the country in which payment is to be made, and he shall likewise enter therein the name of the inland office at which the same is to be paid, and shall at once forward the advice to said office, and the order to the beneficiary for whom the money is intended, retaining the coupon on file in his office as a voucher for his own protection and information.

Artic le VI.

Numbering orders.
Reporting errors.

The money-orders, advices, and coupons issued in each country shall have printed thereon consecutive local or inland numbers, the number upon each advice and coupon being the same as upon its corresponding order; and, in addition thereto, all such orders, advices, and coupons shall be numbered consecutively at the exchange-office at which they are certified, which numbers shall be in the order of their receipt and certification, and shall be designated as "international numbers."
The discovery, by an inland postmaster, of any error in a money-order
or advice shall be by him promptly reported to the exchange-office through which the same was certified, and any error coming to the notice of an exchange-office shall at once be reported to the Money-Order Office at Washington, D. C., in order that an explanation or correction may be given or asked for, as the case may be, which explanation or correction shall be afforded with the least possible delay.

Artic le VII.

Lists of orders issued.
Accounts.
Payment of balances.

Lists of all orders issued during each week by postmasters in either country for payment in the other, shall, at the close of the week, or as soon thereafter as practicable, be transmitted by the Postal Department of the issuing to that of the paying country, and at the close of each fiscal quarter two copies of an account shall be prepared and transmitted to the Postal Department of the United States by the Postal Department of the Dominion of Canada, exhibiting the balance found due on the exchanges of money-orders during the quarter, one copy of which, after proper verification and acknowledgment, shall be returned to the Postal Department of the Dominion of Canada, If this verified account shows a balance in favor of the Postal Department of the Dominion of Canada, that of the United States will transmit, with such verified copy of the quarterly account, a bill of exchange on Montreal, Canada, for the amount of said balance, payable to the Postal Department of the Dominion of Canada. The latter will then send an acknowledgment of receipt to the Postal Department of the United States. If,

CONVENTION--CANADA. June 8 and 23, 1875.

675

on the other hand, said account, after verification and acknowledgment as aforesaid, shows a balance in favor of the Postal Department of the United States, then the Postal Department of the Dominion of Canada will, upon receipt of the certified copy of the same, transmit to that of the United States a bill of exchange for the amount thereof on New
York. The United States Postal Department will then send in return an acknowledgment of receipt.
If, pending the settlement of an account, one of the two Postal Departments shall ascertain that it owes the other a balance exceeding five thousand dollars, the indebted administration shall promptly remit the approximate amount of such balance to the credit of the other. The expenses attending the remittance of bills of exchange shall invariably be borne by the Postal Department having to make the payment.
This account and the letters which accompany such intermediate remittances shall be in accordance with the forms A, B, and C, hereto annexed.

Payments pending settlements.
Forms.

Arti cle VIII.
Until the two Postal Departments shall consent to an alteration, it is agreed that, in all matters relative to money-orders which shall result from the execution of the present convention, the Canadian dollar shall be considered equivalent to one dollar of the gold coin of the United States, and the exchange-offices in the United States shall certify all orders upon the basis of gold.

Value of dollar.

Articl e IX.

The value, in gold coin, of deposits made in the United States in paper money, for payment to beneficiaries in the Dominion of Canada, and the value, in United States paper money, of deposits made in the Dominion of Canada in gold coin, or currency of par value, for payment in the United States, shall be determined according to the rate of premium on gold in New York, N. Y., in the following manner, viz: The postmaster at New York shall, at three o'clock p. m. of each day, except Sunday, telegraph to each of the above-named exchange-offices in the United States the rate of premium on gold at that hour, which rate shall, when received by such exchange-office, be taken as the basis of conversion of money-values for the next and for all subsequent orders and ad-
vices dispatched and received, until the receipt of the next telegram from the postmaster at New York.

Ascertaining value of United States currency.

Articl e X.
A duplicate order shall only be issued by the Postal Department of the country on which the original order was drawn, and in conformity with the regulations established or to be established in that country.

Duplicates.

Artic le XI.

A money-order returned, on application by a dispatching exchange- Returning oroffice, to the inland issuing postmaster, as " not certified for payment," ders. may be repaid by said postmaster to the remitter, in the same manner as a domestic order.
Arti cle XII.

An order which shall not have been paid within twelve calendar months after the month of its issue shall become void, and the sum received therefor shall accrue to and remain at the disposal of the country of origin, and the advice shall be returned, by the inland postmaster holding the same, to his Postal Department, to be by it returned to the Postal Department of the country in which it originated. The Postal Department of the Dominion of Canada shall, therefore, enter, to the

Unpaid orders.

676

CONVENTION--CANADA. Jun e 8 AND 23, 1875.

credit of the United States, in the quarterly account, all sums certified from the latter country which remain unpaid at the end of the period specified. On the other hand, the United States Postal Department shall, at the close of each month, transmit to the Postal Department of the Dominion of Canada, for entry in the quarterly account, a detailed statement of all orders dispatched from said Dominion which, under
this article, become void.

Articl e XIII.

Repaying orders.

Repayment of an order, not void, to a. remitter shall not be made until an authorization therefor shall first have been obtained by the Postal Department ofthecountry of issue from the Postal Department of the country where such order was made payable ; and the amount of the repaid order shall be duly credited to the former country in the quarterly account. It is the province of each Postal Department to determine the manner in which repayment to the remitter is to be made.

Artic le XIV.

Regulations for The orders drawn by each country upon the other shall be subject, as

payment.

regards payment, to the regulations which govern the payment of do-

mestic orders in the country on which they are drawn.

Articl e XV.
Additional rules. The Postal Department of each country shall be authorized to adopt any additional rules, not repugnant to the foregoing, for greater security against fraud, or for the better working of the system generally. All such additional rules, however, must be promptly communicated to the Postal Department of the other country.

Artic le XVI.

Commencement and duration.
Signatures.

The present convention shall take effect on Monday, the 2d day of

August, 1875, and shall continue in force until twelve months after the date at which one of the contracting parties shall have notified to the other its intention to terminate it.

Done in duplicate, and signed at Washington, on the eighth day of

June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-

five, and at Ottawa, Canada, on the twenty-third day of June, in the

year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventv-five.

{ Seal of the Post-Office

MARSHALL JEWELL,

Department of the

United States.

}

Postmaster- General of the United States.

{ Seal of the Post-Office Department of the Dominion of Canada. }

T. FOURNIER,
Postmaster-General of the Dominion of Canada.

Approval.

I hereby approve the foregoing convention, and in testimony thereof 1 have caused the seal of the United States to be hereto affixed.
U. S. GRANT.

By the President:
Seal of the United States. |
Jul y 7, 1875.

JOHN L. CADWALADER,
Acting Secretary of State.

CONVENTION--CANADA. June 8 and 23, 1875.

677

A.
Ottawa , Ont,---------------------------------The within account exhibits a total balance of $ ---- -------gold, which after deduction of the payments on account, at therein stated, leaves a balance remaining of $-------------- due the Postal Department of--------------------------------------.

The above statement of account is accepted with a balance of $-------------- gold, due the Postal Department of----------

Was hingt on , D. C.,------------------ ,-----.

Auditor of the Treasury for the Post Office Department.

The payment on account of----------------------having been accepted by special vouchers, the receipt of the balance of $-------------- gold remaining, is hereby acknowledged.

678

CONVENTION---CANADA. Jun e 8 an d 23, 1875.

Account of the exchange of money-orders between the Dominion of Canada and the United States, during the quarter ended---------------------------- .

Total number of orders issued.
Total number of orders issued.

Orders issued in the Dominion of Canada.

Total amount

Numbers of the in- from each

ternational orders. exchange of-

Certified by the ex-

fice (gold).

change office at--

From-- To-- Dolls. Cts.

Bangor, Me............ Boston, Mass........ Buffalo, N. Y........ Detroit, Mich........ New York, N. Y ... Ogdensburgh, N.Y. Portland, Oregon .. Saint Paul, Mum...

Orders issued in the United States.

Total amount

Numbers of the in- from each

ternational orders. exchange of-

Certified by the ex-

fice (gold).

change office at--

From-- To-- Dolls. Cts.

Bangor, Me............ Boston, Mass.......... Buffalo, N. Y.......... Detroit, Mich........ NewYork,N. Y.... Ogdensburgh, N. Y. Portland, Oregon. . Saint Paul, Minn...

Total.................

Total.................

...............

CONVENTION--CANADA. June 8 and 23. 1875.

679

Balance.

To credit of Canadian Postal Department

To credit of United States Postal Department.

Dolls. Cts.

Dolls. Cts.

Amount of international orders issued in the

Amount of international orders issued in the

United States.......................................................

Dominion of Canada............... .......................

One-half of one per cent, on account of such

One-half of one per cent, on account of such

issue..................................................................

issue................................................................

Amount of void orders of Canadian issue, as per

Amount of void orders of United States issue,

table..................................................................

as per table.....................................................

Amount of international orders repaid in the

Amount of international orders repaid in the

Dominion of Canada, as per table..................

United States, as per table................................

Total............................................................... United States credit to be deducted.....................

Total........................................................... Canadian credit to be deducted...........................

Balance to credit of Canadian Postal Department ..................................................................
Paid on account by the Postal Department of the United States.............................................

Balance to credit of United States Postal Department..........................................................
Paid on account by the Postal Department of the Dominion of Canada................................

Amounts. Dolls. Cts.

Amounts. Dolls. Cts.

Balance remaining...................

Balance remaining.................

680

Table showing the particulars of such orders as have been repaid to the remitters in the country of issue.

Issued in the Dominion of Canada.

Issued in the United States.

International.

Amount of order.

International.

Amount of order.

Table showing the particulars of such orders as have become void.

Issued in the Dominion of Canada.

International.

Amount of order.

Issued in the United States.

International.

Amount of order.

Inland number. Number.
office.
Exchange In gold. rency. per curStates paIn United Inland number. Number.
office.
Exchange rency. per curStates paIn United In gold. Inland number Number.
office.
Exchange In gold. rency. per curStates paIn United Inland number. Number.
office.
Exchange rency. per curStates paIn United In gold.

Dolls. Cts. Dolls. Cis.

Dolls. Cts. Dolls. Cts.

Dolls. Cts. Dolls. Cts.

Dolls. Cts. Dolls. Cts.

CONVENTION--CANADA. J u n e 8 AND 23, 1875.

To credit of Canadian Postal Department...

Tocreditof United States Postal Department ....

Toto credit of Canadian Postal Department ..

To credit ofUnited States Postal Department.....

CONVENTION--CANADA. June 8 an d 23. 1875,

681

B.

No. --.

Post -Office Depa rtm ent , Money -Order Office ,

Ottawa,------------, ----- .

SiR : The total number of international money-orders which were issued in the Dominion of Canada from---------- , 18--

to---------- , 18--, inclusive, and were certified and transmitted by the several exchange offices of---------------------- for pay-

ment in the United States, was-------, amounting to $------- .

The total number of such orders, which were issued in the United States during the same period, and were certified and

transmitted by said offices for payment in the Dominion of Canada, was $-------.

On account of which the Canadian office has already paid the following sums, viz:

------- --, 18--

--............ ..................... $

, 18--

$

------- --, 18-- --................................................ --....................................... --.... $

Difference remaining................................................................................................................................. $
In accordance with Article VII of the convention of---------- , 1875, a bill of exchange on New York, N. Y., for $------is herewith transmitted, the receipt of which you will be pleased to acknowledge in due form.

To the Postmaste r -General

of the Uni ted Stat es , Washington.

682

CONVENTION--CANADA. June 8 and 23. 1875.

C.

No. --

Pos t -Offi ce De part me nt , Mon et -Ord er Office ,

Washington, D. C., -- --,---- .

Sir : The total number of international money-orders, which were issued in the United States from ------- --, 18--, to

---------- , 18--, inclusive, and were certified and transmitted by the several exchange offices of---------------------- for payment

in the Dominion of Canada, was-------, amounting to $------- .

The total number of such orders, which were issued in the Dominion of Canada during the same period, and were certi-

fied and transmitted by said offices for payment in the United States, was------- , amounting to $------- .

On account of which the United States office has already paid the following sums, viz:

---------- 18-.........................................................................................................................................................................

---------- .18------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ $

---------- .18-..........................................................................................................

I

Difference remaining.................

$

In accordance with Article VII of the convention of---------- , 1875, a bill of exchange on Montreal, Canada, is herewith transmitted, the receipt of which you will be pleased to acknowledge in due form.

To the Post mab t e r -Gkne ral of the Domi nio n of Cana da .
Ottawa.

Superintendent.

CONVENTION--WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. Ma y 20, 1875.

709

Convention between the United States of America, Germany, Austria-Hun gary, Belgium, Brazil, the Argentine Confederation, Denmark, Spain France, Italy, Peru, Portugal, Russia, Sweden and Norway, Switzerland Turkey and Venezuela, for the establishment of an International Bureau of Weights and Measures. Concluded May 20, 1875 ; ratification advised by the Senate May 15, 1878; ratified May 28, 1878; proclaimed September 27, 1878.

May 20, 1875.

[Note .--This treaty, as signed, was in the French language only. The English trans-
lation has been added in Washington.]

By th e Pres ident of the Unite d Sta te s of Amer ica :

A Proclamation.

Whereas a metric convention between the United States and His Majesty the Emperor of Germany, His Majesty the Emperor of AustriaHungary, His Majesty the King of the Belgians, His Majesty the Emperor of Brazil, His Excellency the President of the Argentine Confederation, His Majesty the King of Denmark, His Majesty the King of Spain, His Excellency the President of the French Republic, His Majesty the King of Italy, His Excellency the President of the Republic of Peru, His Majesty the King of Portugal and the Algarves, His Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias, His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, His Excellency the President of the Swiss Confederation, His Majesty the Emperor of the Ottomans, and His Excellency the President of the Republic of Venezuela, was concluded and signed by their respective plenipotentiaries, at Paris, on the twentieth day of May, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-five, which convention is, word for word, as follows:

Preamble.

His Excellency the President of the United States of America, His Majesty the Emperor of Germany, His Majesty the Emperor of Austria-Hungary, His Majesty the King of the Belgians, His Majesty the Emperor of Brazil, His Excellency the President of the Argentine Confederation, His Majesty the King of Denmark, His Majesty the King of Spain, His Excellency the President of the French Republic, His Majesty the King of Italy, His Excellency the President of the Republic of Peru, His Majesty the King of Portugal and the Algarves, His Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias, His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway,
His Excellency the President of the Swiss Confederation, His Majesty the Emperor of the Ottomans, and His Excellency the President

Son Excellence le President des Contracting parEtats-Unis d'Amerique, Sa Majeste ties. 1'Empereur d'Allemagne, Sa Majeste 1'Empereur d'Autriche-Hon-
grie, Sa Majeste le Roi des Beiges, Sa Majeste 1'Empereur du Bresil, Son Excellence le President de la Confederation Argentine, Sa Majeste le Roi de Danemark, Sa Majeste le Roi d'Espagne, Son Excellence le President de la Republique Frangaise, Sa Majeste le Roi d'Italie, Son Excellence le President de la Republique du Perou, Sa Majeste le Roi de Portugal et des Algarves, Sa Majeste 1'Empereur detoutes les Russies, Sa Majeste le Roi de Suede et de Norvege, Son Excellence le President de la Confederation Suisse, Sa Majeste 1'Empereur des Ottomans et Son Excellence le President de la Republique de Venezuela, desirant assurer 1'unification

710

CONVENTION--WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. May 20. 1875.

Contracting par- of the Republic of Venezuela, deties, continued. siring international uniformity and
precision in standards of weight and measure, have resolved to conclude a convention to this effect, and have named as their plenipotentiaries the following:

internationale et le perfectionnement du systeme metrique, ont resolu de conclure une Convention a cet effet et ont nomme pour Leurs Plenipotentiaires, savoir:

His Excellency the President of the United States of America: Mr. Elihu Benjamin Washburne, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States at Paris;
His Majesty the Emperor of Germany: His Highness Prince Hohen1ohe - Schillingsfurst, Grand Cross of the Order of the Red Eagle of Prussia, and of the Order of St. Hubert of Bavaria, &c., &c., &c., his Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary at Paris;
His Majesty the Emperor of Austria-Hungary : His Excellency Count Apponyi, his Actual Chamberlain and Privy Counselor, Knight of the Golden Fleece, Grand Cross of the Royal Order of St. Stephen of Hungary, and of the Imperial Order of Leopold, &c., &c., &c., his Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary at Paris;
His Majesty the King of the Belgians: Baron Beyens, Grand Officer of his Order of Leopold, Grand Officer of the Legion of Honor, &c., &c., &c., his Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Paris;
His Majesty the Emperor of Brazil: Mr. Marcus Antonio d'Araujo, Viscount d'Itajuba, Grandee of the Empire, member of His Majesty's Council, Commander of his Order of Christ, Grand Officer of the Legion of Honor, &c., &c., &c., his Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Paris;
His Excellency the President of the Argentine Confederation: Mr. Balcarce, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the Argentine Confederation at Paris;
His Majesty the King of Denmark : Count de Moltke-Hvitfeldt, Grand Cross of the Order of Dannebrog, and decorated with the Cross of Honor of the same order, Grand Officer of the Legion of Honor, &c., &c., &c., his Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Paris;

Son Excellence le President des Etats-Unis d'Amerique, M. Elihu Benjamin Washburne, Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire des Etats-Unis a Paris;
Sa Majesty 1'Empereur d'Allemagne, S. A. le Prince de Hohenlohe-Schillingsfiirst, Grand Croix de 1'Ordre de 1'Aigle Rouge de Prusse et de 1'Ordre de St. Hubert de Baviere, etc. etc. etc., son Ambassadeur extraordinaire et plenipotentiaire a Paris;
Sa Majesty 1'Empereur d'Autriche-Hongrie, S. Exc. M. le Comte Apponyi, son Chambellan actuel et Conseiller intime, Chevalier de la Toison d'or, Grand Croix de 1'Ordre Royale de St. Etienne de Hongrie et de 1'Ordre Imperial de Leopold, etc. etc. etc., son Ambassadeur extraordinaire et plenipotentiaire a Paris;
Sa Majeste le Roi des Beiges, M. le Baron Beyens, Grand officier de son Ordre de Leopold, Grand officier de la Legion d'Honneur, etc. etc. etc., son Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire a Paris;
Sa Majeste 1'Empereur du Bresil, M. Marcos Antonio d'Araujo, Vicomte d'Itajuba, Grand de 1'Empire, Membre du Conseil de Sa Majeste, Commandeur de son Ordre du Christ, Grand officier de la Legion d'Honneur, etc. etc. etc., son Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire a Paris;
Son Excellence le President de la Confederation Argentine, M. Balcarce, Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire de la Confederation Argentine a Paris;
Sa Majeste le Roi de Danemark, M. le Comte de Moltke-Hvitfeldt, Grand Croix de 1'Ordre du Dannebrog et decore de la Croix d'Honneur du meme Ordre, Grand Officier de la Legion d'Honneur, etc. etc. etc., son Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire a Paris;

CONVENTION--WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. May 20, 1875.

711

His Majesty the King of Spain: His Excellency Don Mariano Roca de Togores, Marquis de Molins, Viscount de Rocamora, Grandee of Spain of the First Class, Knight of the Renowned Order of the Golden Fleece, Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor, &c., &c., &c., Director of the Royal Spanish Academy, his Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary at Paris; and General Ibanez, Grand Cross of the Order of Isabella the Catholic, &c., &c., Director General of the Geographical and Statistical Institute of Spain, Member of the Academy
of Sciences; His Excellency the President of
the French Republic: The Duke Decazes, deputy to the National Assembly, Commander of the Order of the Legion of Honor, &c., &c., &c., Minister of Foreign Affairs; the Viscount de Meaux, deputy to the National Assembly, Minister of Agriculture and of Commerce; and Mr. Dumas, Perpetual Secretary to the Academy of Sciences, Grand Cross of the Order of the Legion of Honor;
His Majesty the King of Italy: The Chevalier Constantino Nigra, Knight of the Grand Cross of his Orders of St. Maurice and St. Lazarus, and of the Crown of Italy, Grand Officer of the Legion of Honor, &c., &c., &c., his Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipo-
tentiary at Paris; His Excellency the President of
the republic of Peru: Mr. Pedro Galvez, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of Peru
at Paris; and Mr. Francisco de Rivero, formerly Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of Peru;
His Majesty the King of Portugal and of the Algarves: Mr. Jose da Silva Mendes Leal, Peer of the Realm, Grand Cross of the Order of Saint James, Knight of the Order of the Tower and Sword of Portugal, &c., &c., &c., his Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Paris;
His Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias: Mr. Gregory Okouneff, Knight of the Russian Orders of St. Anne of the first class, of St. Stanislaus of the first class, of St. Vladimir of the third class, Com-

Sa Majesty le Roi d'Espagne, S. Exc. Don Mariano Roca de Togores, Marquis de Molins, Vicomte de Rocamora, Grand d'Espagne de premiere classe, Chevalier de 1'Ordre insigne de la Toison d'or, Grand Croix de la Legion d'Honneur, etc. etc. etc., Directeur de 1'Academie Royale Espagnole, son Ambassa-
deur extraordinaire et plenipotentiaire a Paris; et M. le General Ibanez, Grand Croix de 1'Ordre d'Isabelle la Catholique, etc. etc. etc., Directeur General de 1'Institut geographique et statistique d'Espagne, Membre de 1'Academie des Sciences;
Son Excellence le President de la Republique Frangaise, M. le Due Decazes, depute a 1'Assemblee Na-
tionale, Commandeur de 1'Ordre de la Legion d'Honneur, etc. etc. etc., Ministre des Affaires Etrangeres; M. le Vicomte de Meaux, depute a 1'Assemblee Nationale, Ministre de 1'Agriculture et du Commerce; et M. Dumas, Secretaire perpetuel de 1'Academie, Grand Croix de 1'Ordre de la Legion d'Honneur;

Contracting parties, continued.

Sa Majesty le Roi d'ltalie, M. le Chevalier Constantin Nigra, Chevalier Grand Croix de ses ordres des Saints Maurice et Lazare et de la Couronne d'ltalie, Grand Officier de la Legion d'Honneur, etc. etc. etc., son Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire a Paris;

Son Excellence le President de la Republique du Perou, M. Pedro Galvez, Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire du Perou a Paris, et M. Francisco de Rivero, ancien Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire du Perou;

Sa Majeste le Roi de Portugal et des Algarves, M. Jose da Silva

Mendes Leal, Pair du Royaume, Grand Croix de 1'Ordre de St.

Jacques, Chevalier de 1'Ordre de la Tour et 1'Epee de Portugal, etc. etc. etc., son Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire a Paris;
Sa Majeste 1'Empereur de toutes les Russies, M. Gregoire Okouneff, Chevalier des Ordres de Rus-

sie de Ste. Anne de ldre classe, de

Saint Stanislas de lfcre classe, de St.

Wladimir de

classe, Com-

712

CONVENTION--WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. May 20, 1875.

Contracting parties, continued.

mander of the Legion of Honor, Actual Counselor of State, Counselor of the Embassy of Russia at Paris;
His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway: Baron Adelsward, Grand Cross of the Orders of the Polar Star of Sweden, and of St. Olaf of Norway, Grand Officer of the Legion of Honor, &c., &c., &c., his Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Paris;
His Excellency the President of the Swiss Confederation: Mr. Jean Conrad Kern, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the Swiss Confederation at
Paris; His Majesty the Emperor of the
Ottomans: Husny Bey, Lieutenant-Colonel of Staff, wearer of a fourth-class decoration of the Imperial Order of Osmania, of a fifthclass decoration of the Order of Medjidie, Officer of the Legion of Honor, &c., &c., &c.;
His Excellency the President of the Republic of Venezuela: Doctor
Eliseo Acosta, Who, after having exhibited their
full powers, which were found to be in good and due form, have agreed upon the following articles:

mandeur de la Legion d'Honneur, etc. etc. etc., Conseiller d'Etat actuel, Conseiller de 1'Ambassade de Russie a Paris;
Sa Majeste le Roi de Suede et de Norvege, M. le Baron Adelsward, Grand Croix des Ordres de 1'Etoile Polaire de Suede et de St. Olaf de Norvege, Grand Officier de la Legion d'Honneur, etc. etc., son Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire a Paris;
Son Excellence le President de la Confederation Suisse, M. Jean Conrad Kern, Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire de la Confederation Suisse a Paris;
Sa Majeste 1'Empereur des Ottomans, Husny-Bey, LieutenantColonel d'Etat Major, decore de la 4e classe de 1'ordre Imperial de 1'Osmanie, de la 5e classe de 1'ordre du Medjidie, Officier de 1'Ordre de la Legion d'Honneur, etc. etc. etc.;
Son Excellence le President de la Republique de Venezuela, M. le Docteur Eliseo Acosta,
Lesquels, apres s'etre communique leurs pleins pouvoirs, trouves en bonne et due forme, out arret6 les dispositions suivantes:

Artic le 1.

Articl e 1.

Internation al The high contracting parties enbureau of weights gage to establish and maintain, at and measures. their common expense, a scientific
and permanent international bureau
of weights and measures, the location of which shall be at Paris.

Les Hautes Parties contractantes s'engagent a fonder et entretenir,
a frais communs, un Bureau international des poids et mesures scientifique et permanent, dont le siege est a Paris.

Artic le 2.

Artic le 2.

Building.

The French Government shall take all the necessary measures to facilitate the purchase, or, if expedient, the construction, of a building which shall be especially de-
voted to this purpose, subject to the conditions stated in the regulations which are subjoined to this convention.

Le Gouvernement francais pren-
drales dispositions necessaires pour faciliter 1'acquisition ou, s'il y a lieu, la construction d'un bailment specialement affecte a cette destination, dansles conditions determinees par le reglement annexe a la pre sente Convention.

Art icl e 3.

Artic le 3.

Management.

The operation of the international bureau shall be under the exclusive direction and supervision of an international committee of weights and measures, which latter shall be

Le Bureau international fonctionnera sous la direction et la surveillance exclusives d'un Comiti international des poids et mesures, place lui-meme sous 1'autorite d'une Con-

CONVENTION-WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. May 20, 1875.

713

under the control of a general conference for weights and measures, to be composed of the delegates of all the contracting governments.

ference generale des poids et me- Management, sures formee de delegues de tons continued. les Gouvernements contractants.

Articl e 4.

Articl e 4.

The general conference for weights and measures shall be presided over by the president for the time being of the Paris Academy of Sciences.
Artic le 5.

La Presidence de la Conference President of congenerale des poids et mesures est ferences. attribute an President en exercice de 1'Academie des Sciences de Paris.
Arti cle 5.

The organization of the bureau, as well as the formation and the powers of the international committee, and of the general conference for weights and measures, are established by the regulations subjoined to this convention.

L'organisation du Bureau ainsi que la composition et les attributions du Comite international et de la Conference generale des poids et mesures sont determinees par le Beglement annexe a la presente Convention.

Organization.

Artic le 6.

Arti cle 6.

The international bureau of
weights and measures shall be 3harged with the following duties :
1st. All comparisons and verifications of the new prototypes of the meter and kilogram.
2d. The custody of the international prototypes.
3d. The periodical comparison of the national standards with the international prototypes and with their test copies, as well as comparisons of the standard thermometers.
4th. The comparison of the prototypes with the fundamental standards of non-metrical weights and measures used in different countries for scientific purposes.
5th. The sealing and comparison
of geodesic measuring-bars. 6th. The comparison of standards
and scales of precision, the verification of which may be requested by governments or by scientific societies, or even by constructors or men of science.

Le Bureau international des poids et mesures est charge:
1 de toutes les comparaisons et verifications des nouveaux prototypes du metre et du kilogramme;
2 de la conservation des prototypes internationaux;
3 des comparaisons periodiques des etalons nationaux avec les prototypes internationaux et avec leurs temoins, ainsi que de celles des thermometres etalons;
4 dela comparaison des nouveaux prototypes avec les etalons fnndamentaux des poids et mesures non metriques employes dans les differents pays et dans les sciences;
5 de l'etalonnage et de la comparaison des regies geodesiques;
6 de la comparaison des etalons et echelles de precision dont la verification serait demandee; soit par des Gouvernements, soit par des societes savantes, soit meme par des artistes et des savants.

Duties.

Artic le 7.

Arti cle 7.

The persons composing the bureau Le personnel du Bureau se com- Staff. shall be a director, two assistants, posera d'un directeur, de deux adand the necessary number of em- joints et du nombre d'employes ployes. When the comparisons of necessaire. the new prototypes shall have been A partir de 1'dpoque ou les finished, and when these prototypes comparaisons des nouveaux protoshall have been distributed among types auront ete efiectuees et ou the different states, the number of ces prototypes auront ete repartis

714

CONVENTION--WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. May 20, 1875.

Stall, continued.

persons composing the bureau shall be reduced so far as may be deemed expedient.
The governments of the high contracting parties will be informed by the international committee of the appointment of the persons composing this bureau.

entre les divers Etats, le personnel du Bureau sera reduit dans la proportion jugee convenable.
Les nominations du personnel du Bureau seront notifies par le Comite international aux Gouvernements des Hautes Parties contractantes.

Artic le 8.

Arti cle 8.

International The international prototypes of

prototypes.

the meter and of the kilogram,

together with the test copies of the

same, shall be deposited in the

bureau, and access to them shall be

allowed to the international com-

mittee only.

Les prototypes internationaux du metre et du kilogramme, ainsi que leurs temoins, demeureront deposes dans le Bureau; Faeces du depdt sera uniquement reserve au Comite international.

Arti cle 9.

Contributions for expenses.

The entire expense of the construction and outfit of the international bureau of weights and measures, together with the annual cost of its maintenance and the expenses of the committee, shall be defrayed by contributions from the contracting states, the amount of which shall be computed in proportion to the actual population of each.
Arti cle 10.

Articl e 9.
Tons les frais d'etablissement et
d'installation du Bureau international des poids et mesures, ainsi que les depenses annuelles d'entretien et celles du Comite, seront converts par des contributions des Etats contractants, etablies d'apres une echelle basee sur leur population actuelle.
Artic le 10.

Payment of con- The amounts representing the

tributions.

contributions of each of the con-

tracting states shall be paid at the

beginning of each year, through

the ministry of foreign affairs of France, into the Caisse de depots et consignations at Paris, whence they may be drawn as occasion may require, upon the order of the director of the bureau.

Les sommes representant la part contributive de chacun des Etats contractants seront versees, au commencement de chaque annee, par 1'intermediaire du Ministere des Affaires Etrangeres de Prance, a la caisse des depots et consignations a Paris, d'ou elles seront retirees au fur et amesure des besoins, sur mandats du directeur du Bureau.

Arti cle 11.

Articl e 11.

Contributions Those governments which may

from new mem- take advantage of the privilege,

bers.

open to every state, of acceding

to this convention, shall be required

to pay a contribution, the amount

of which shall be fixed by the com-

mittee on the basis established in

article 9, and which shall be de-

voted to the improvement of the

scientific apparatus of the bureau.

Les Gouvernements qui useraient de la faculte, reservee a tout Etat, d'acceder a la presente Convention, seront tenus d'acquitter une contribution dont le montant sera deter-
mine par le Comite sur les bases etablies a Particle 9, et qui sera affectee a l'ame1ioration du materiel scientifique du Bureau.

Articl e 12.

Arti cle 12-

Modifications. The high contracting parties re- Les Hautes Parties contractanres serve to themselves the power of se reservent la faculty d'apporter,

CONVENTION--WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. May 20, 1875.

715

introducing into the present convention, by common consent, any modifications the propriety of which

may have been shown by experi-

ence.

Arti cle 13.

d'un commun accord, a la presente Modifications, Convention, toutes les modifica- continued. tions dont 1'experience demontrerait Futility.
Articl e 13.

At the expiration of twelve years this convention may be abrogated by any one of the high contracting parties, so far as it is concerned.
Any government which may avail itself of the right of terminating this convention, so far as it is concerned, shall be required to give notice of its intentions one year in advance, and by so doing shall renounce all rights of joint ownership in the international prototypes and in the bureau.

Al'expiration d'unterme dedouze annees, la presente Convention pourra etre denoncee par 1'une ou 1'autre des Hautes Parties contractantes.
Le Gouvernement qui userait de la faculte d'en faire cesser les effets en ce qui le concerne, sera tenu de notifier son intention une annee d'avance, et renoncera, par ce fait, a tons droits de co-propriete sur les prototypes internationaux et sur le Bureau.

Duration.

Articl e 14.

Articl e 14.

This Convention shall be ratified according to the constitutional laws of each state, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in Paris within six months, or sooner, if possible.
It shall take effect on the first day of January, 1876.

La presente Convention sera ratifiee suivant les Lois constitutionnelles particulieres a chaque Etat; les ratifications en seront echangees a Paris dans le delai de six mois ou plus tot, si faire se pent.
Elle sera mise a execution a partir du ler Janvier 1876.

Ratification.

In testimony whereof the respective plenipotentiaries have attached their signatures and have hereunto affixed their seals of arms.
Done at Paris, May 20, 1875.

[l . s.] [l . s.j [l . s.j

E. B. Washb urn e . Hohenlohe . Apponyi .

[l . s . ] [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j [l s. j [l . s.j

Beyens .

Visco un t d 'Itaju ba .

M. Balcarce .

Moltke -Hvit feldt .

Marquis de Molins .

Carlos Ibanez .

Decazes .

)

C. De Meaux . >

N. Duma s .

)

Nig ra .

P. Galve z .

[l . s.j Fran 'co de Riv ero .

[i,. s.] Jos$ da Silva [i.. s.] Okouneff . For M. le Baron Adelswa

Mendes Leal . rd (prevented).

[l . s .] [l . s . j [l . s . j [l . s.j

Kern . Husny . E. Acosta .

H. Akerm an .

En foi de quoi, les Plenipotentiaires respectifs Font signee et y ont appose le cachet de leurs armes.

Fait a Paris le 20 Mai 1875.

[l . s .] [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j
[l . s .] [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j Pour M.

E. B. Wash burn e . Hohen lohe . Apponyi . Beyens . Visco un t d 'Itaju ba .

M. Balcarce .

Moltke -Hvitfeldt .

Marq uis de Molins .

Carlos Ibanez .

Decazes .

)

C. De Meaux . >

N. Duma s .

)

Nigra .

P. Galv ez .

Fran 'co de Riv ero .

Jose da Silva Mendes

Okou neff .

Leal .

le Baron Adelswa rd (empficli^).

[l . s .] [l . s.j [l . s.j [l . s.j

Kern . Husny . E. Acosta .

H. Akerm an .

Signatures.

716

CONVENTION--WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. May 20,1875.

Appendix No. 1.

Annexe No. 1.

Regulations.

REGULATIONS.

REGLEMENT.

Art icl e 1.

Artic le 1.

Establishment for bureau.

The international bureau of weights and measures shall be established in a special building, possessing all the necessary safeguards of stillness and stability.
It shall comprise, in addition to the vault, which shall be devoted to the safe-keeping of the prototypes, rooms for mounting the comparators and balances; a laboratory, a library, a room for the arch-
ives, work-rooms for the employes, and lodgings for the watchmen and
attendants.

Le Bureau international des poids et mesures sera etabli dans un batiment special presentant toutes les garanties necessaires de tranquillity et de stability.
Il comprendra, outre le local approprie an depot des prototypes, des salles pour 1'installation des comparateurs et des balances, un laboratoire, une bibliotheque, une salle d'archives, des cabinets de travail pour les fonctionnaires et des logements pour le personnel de garde et de service.

Arti cle 2.

Art icl e 2.

Building.

It shall be the duty of the international committee to acquire and fit up the aforesaid building and to set in operation the work for which it was designed.
In case of the committee's inability to obtain a suitable building, one shall be built under its direction and in accordance with its plans.

Le Comity international est charge de 1'acquisition et de 1'ap-
propriation de ce batiment, ainsi que de 1'installation des services auxquels il est destine.
Dans le cas ou le Comity ne trouverait pas a acquerir un batiment convenable, il en sera construit un sous sa direction et sur ses plans.

Artic le 3.

Arti cle 3.

Recognition.

The French Government shall, at
the request of the international committee, take the necessary measures to cause the bureau to be recognized as an establishment of public utility.

Le Gouvernement francais prendra, sur la demande du Comity international, les dispositions necessaires pour faire reconnaitre le Bureau comme ytablissement d'utility publique.

Arti cle 4.

Arti cle 4.

Instruments.

The international committee shall cause the necessary instruments to be constructed, such as comparators for the standards of line and end measures, apparatus for the determination of absolute dilatations, balances for weighing in air and in vacuo, comparators for geodetic measuring-bars, &c.

Le Comite international fera executer les instruments necessaires, tels que: comparateurs pour les etalons a traits et a bouts, appareils pour les determinations des dilatations absolues, balances pour les pesees dans Fair et dans le vide, comparateurs pour les regles geodesiques, etc.

Artic le 5.

Artic le 5.

Cost of ment.

equip- The entire expense incurred in the purchase or construction of the building, and in the purchase and placing of the instruments and ap-

Les frais d'acquisition ou de construction du batiment et les depenses d'installation et d'achat des instruments et appareils ne pourront

CONVENTION--WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. May 20, 1875.

717

paratus, shall not exceed 400,000 francs.
Arti cle 6.

depasser ensemble la somme de 400,000 francs.
Articl e 6.

The estimate of annual expenditures is as follows:
A For the first period--during the construction and comparison of the new prototypes--

Le budget des depenses annuelles est evalue ainsi qu'il suit:
A. Pour la premiere periode de la confection et de la comparaison des nouveaux prototypes:

Annual expenses.

(a) Salary of the director......... 15, 000 fr. " of two adjuncts, at 6,000 fr. each....... 12, 000 " of four assistants, at 3,000 fr. each....... 12,000
Pay ofdoor-keeper,(mechanic) 3, 000 Wages of two office-boys, at
1,500 fr. each...................... 3, 000 Total for salaries............ 45, 000
(b) Compensation to men of science and artists who, by direction of the committee, may be employed to perform special duties, keeping of the building in proper order, purchase and repair of apparatus, fuel,light,andoffice-expenses. 24, 000
(c) Compensation of the secretary of the international committee of weights and measures.................................... 6,000 Total............................... 75,000

(a) Traitement du directeur.... `1 de deux adjoints, a6,000 francs. " de quatre aides, a 3,000 francs.
Appointements d'un mecanicien-concierge................
Gages de deux gargons de bureau, a 1,500 francs............

15, 000 f. 12,000 12,000 3, 000 3, 000

Total des traitements.... 45, 000

(b) Indenmites pour les savants et les artistes qui, sur la demande du Comite, seraient charges de travaux spdciaux. Entretien du batimeut, achat et reparation d'appareils, chauffage, eclairage, frais de bureau ...................................
(c) Indemnity pour le secretaire du Comite international des poids et mesures.....................

24, 000 6, 000

Total............................... 75, 000

The annual budget of the bureau may be modified by the international committee as necessity may require at the suggestion of the director, but it shall in no case exceed the sum of 100,000 francs.
The contracting governments shall be notified of any modifications that the committee may think proper to make within these limits, in the annual budget fixed by the present regulations.
The committee may authorize the director, at his request, to make transfers from one subdivision of the allotted budget to another.
B For the period subsequent to the distribution of the prototypes:
(a) Salary of the director........ 15, 000 fr. `` one adjunct......... 6, 000
Pay of a door-keeper, (mechanic) .......................... 3,000
Wages of anoffice-boy____ 1,500
25, 500 (b) Office-expenses................... 18,500 (c) Compensation of secretary,
international committee 6, 000
Total............................... 50, 000

Le budget annuel du Bureau pourra etre modifie, suivant les besoms, par le Comite international, sur la proposition du directeur, mais sans pouvoir depasser la somme de 100,000 francs.
Toute modification que le Comite croirait devoir apporter, dans ces limites, au budget annuel fixe par le present reglement, sera portee a la connaissance des Gouvernements contractants.
Le Comite pourra autoriser le directeur, sur sa demande, a operer des virements d'un chapitre a 1'autre du budget qui lui est alloue.
B. Pour la periode posterieure a la distribution des prototypes: (a) Traitement du directeur.... 15, 000 f.
" d'un adjoint.... 6, 000 Appointements d'un mecani-
cien-concierge................ 3, 000 Gages d'un gargon de bureau. 1, 500
25, 500 (b) Depenses du Bureau........ 18, 500 (c) Indemnity pour le secretaire
du Comite international... 6, 000
Total............................... 50,000

718

CONVENTION--WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. May 20, 1875.

Artic le 7.

Articl e 7.

Meetings of general conference.

The general conference mentioned in article 3 of this convention shall be at Paris, upon the summons of the international committee, at least once every six years.
It shall be its duty to discuss and initiate measures necessary for the
dissemination and improvement of the metrical system, and to pass upon such new fundamental metro-
logical determinations as may have been made during the time when it was not in session. It shall receive the report of the international committee concerning the work that has been accomplished, and shall replace one-half of the international committee by secret ballot.
The voting in the general conference shall be by states; each state shall be entitled to one vote.
Each of the members of the international committee shall be entitled to a seat at the meetings of the conference. They may at the same time be delegates of their governments.

La Conference generale, mentionnee a Particle 3 de la Convention, se reunira a Paris, sur la convocation du Comite international, au moins une fois tous le six ans.
Elle a pour mission de discuter et de provoquer les mesures necessaires pour la propagation et le perfection-
nement du systeme metrique, ainsi que de sanctionner les nouvelles determinations metrologiques fondamentales qui auraientetefaites dans Pintervalle de ses reunions. Elle re coit le rapport du Comite international sur les travaux accomplis, et procede, au scrutin secret, au renouvellement par moitie du Comite international.
Les votes, au sein dela Conference generale, ont lieu par Etats; chaque Etat a droit une voix.
Les membres du Comite international siegent de droit dans les reunions de la Conference; ilspeuvent etre en meme temps deiegues de leurs Gouvernements.

Arti cle 8.

Artic le 8.

Composition.

The international committee mentioned in article 3 of the convention shall be composed of fourteen members, who shall belong to different states.
It shall consist, at first, of the twelve members of the former permanent committee of the international commission of 1872, and of the two delegates who, at the time of the appointment of that permanent committee, received the largest number of votes next to the members who were elected.
At the time of the renewal of onehalf of the international committee, the retiring members shall be, first, those who, in cases of vacancy, may have been elected provisionally during the interval occurring between
two sessions of the conference. The others shall be designated by lot.
The retiring members shall be reeligible.

Le Comite international, mentionne a Particle 3 de la Convention, sera compose de quatorze membres appartenant tons a des Etats differents.
Il sera forme, pour la premiere
fois, des douze membres de Pancien Comite permanent de la Commission internationale de 1872 et des deux delegues qui, lors de la nomination de ce Comite permanent, avaient obtenu le plus grand nombre de suffrages apres les membres
elus. Lors du renouvellement, par moi-
tie, du Comite international, les membres sortants seront d'abord ceux qui, en cas de vacance, auront ete elus provisoirement dans Pinter valle entre deux sessions de la Conference; les autres seront designes par le sort.
Les membres sortants seront reeligibles.

Duties

Artic le 9. The international committee shall direct the work connected with the verification of the new prototypes, and, in general, all the metrological

Articl e 9. Le Comite international dirige les travaux concernant la verification des nouveaux prototypes, et en general tons les travaux metrolo-

CONVENTION--WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. May 20, 1875.

719

labors, as the high contracting par- giques que les Hautes Parties con- Duties, conties may decide to have performed tractantes decideront de faire exc- tinued. at the common expense. It shall, enter en commun. H est charge, moreover, exercise supervision over en outre, de surveiller la conservathe safe-keeping of the international tion des prototypes internationaux. prototypes.

Articl e 10.
The international committee shall choose its chairman and secretary by secret ballot. The governments of the high contracting parties shall be notified of the result of such elections.
The chairman and secretary of the committee, and the director of the bureau, must belong to different countries.
After having been formed, the committee shall hold no new elections and make no new appointments until three months after notice thereof shall have been given to all the members by the bureau of the committee.

Articl e 10.
Le Comite international se constitue en choisissant lui-meme, au scrutin secret, son president et son secretaire. Ces nominations seront notifiees aux Gouvernements des Hautes Parties contractantes.
Le President et le secretaire du Comite et le directeur du Bureau doivent appartenir a des pays differents.
Une fois constitue, le Comite ne peut proceder a de nouvelles elections ou nominations que trois mois apres que tous les membres en auront ete avertis par le bureau du Comite.

Officers.

Articl e 11.

Articl e 11.

Until the new prototypes shall have been finished and distributed, the committee shall meet at least once a year. After that time its meetings shall be held at least biennially.

Jusqu'a 1'epoque ou les nouveaux
prototypes seront termines et distribues, le Comite se reunira au moins une fois par an; apres cette epoque, ses reunions seront au moins bisaunuelles.

Artic le 12.

Arti cle 12.

Questions upon which a vote is taken in the committee shall be decided by a majority of the votes
cast. In case of a tie, the vote of the chairman shall decide. No resolution shall be considered to have been duly adopted unless the number of members present be at least equal to a majority of the members composing the committee.
This condition being fulfilled, absent members shall have the right to authorize members who are present to vote for them, and the members thus authorized shall furnish proper evidence of their authorization. The same shall be the case in elections by secret ballot.

Les votes du Comite out lieu a la majorite des voix; en cas de partage la voix du President est preponderante. Les decisions ne sont valables que si le nombre des membres presents egale au moins la moitie plus un des membres qui composent le Comite.
Sous reserve de cette condition, les membres absents out le droit de deleguer leurs votes aux membres presents, qui devront justifier de cette delegation. Il en est de meme pour les nominations au scrutin secret.

Artic le 13.

Arti cle 13.

During the interval occurring between two sessions, the committee shall have the right to discuss questions by correspondence.

Dans l'intervalle d'une session a 1'autre, le Comite a le droit de deliberer par correspondance.

Meetings. Quorum.
Discussions.

720

CONVENTION--WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. May 20, 1875.

Discussions, con- In such cases, in order that its reso-

tinued.

lutions may be considered to have

been adopted in due form, it shall be

necessary for all the members of

the committee to have been called

upon to express their opinions.

Dans ce cas, pour que la decision soit valable, il faut que tous les membres du Comity aient ete appeles a emettre leur avis.

Artic le 14.

Arti cle 14.

Vacancies.

The international committee for weights and measures shall provisionally fill such vacancies as may occur in it; these elections shall take place by correspondence, each of the members being called upon to take part therein.

Le Comite international des poids et mesures remplit provisoirement les vacances qui pourraient se produire dans son sein; ces Elections se font par correspondance, chacun des membres etant appele a y prendre part.

Articl e 15.

Articl e 15.

Regulations.

The international committee shall prepare detailed regulations for the organization and the labors of the bureau, and shall fix the amounts to be paid for the performance of the extraordinary duties provided for in article 6 of this convention.
Such amounts shall be applied to the improvement of the scientific apparatus of the bureau.

Le Comite international eleborera un reglement detaille pour 1'organisation et les travaux du Bureau, et il fixera les taxes a payer pour les travaux extraordinaires prevus a Particle 6 de la Convention.
Ces taxes seront affectees au perfectionnement du materiel scientifique du Bureau.

Arti cle 16.

Arti cle 16.

Communi cations with governments.

All communications from the international committee to the governments of the high contracting parties shall take place through the diplomatic representatives of such countries at Paris.
For all matters requiring the attention of the French authorities, the committees shall have recourse to the ministry of foreign affairs of France.

Toutes les communications du Comite international avec les Gouvernements des Hautes Parties contractantes auront lieu par 1'intermediaire de leurs representants diplomatiques a Paris.
Pour toutes les affaires dont la solution appartiendra a une administration francaise, le Comite aura
recours au Ministere des affaires etrangeres de France.

Arti cle 17.

Articl e 17.

Director assistants.

and The director of the bureau and the adjuncts shall be chosen by the international committee by secret ballot.
The employes shall be appointed by the director.
The director shall have a right to take part in the deliberations of the committee.

Le directeur du Bureau ainsi que les adjoints sont nommes au scrutin secret par le Comite international.
Les employes sont nommes par le directeur.
Le directeur a voix deliberative au sein du Comite.

Articl e 18.

Articl e 18.

Access to inter- The director of the bureau shall national proto- have access to the place of de-
types.
posit of the international prototypes of the meter and the kilogram only

Le directeur du Bureau n'aura acces au lieu de depot des prototypes internationaux du metre et du kilogramme qu'en vertu d'une re-

CONVENTION--WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. May 20, 1875.

721

in pursuance of a resolution of the committee and in the presence of two of its members.
The place of deposit of the prototypes shall be opened only by means of three keys, one of which shall be in possession of the director of the archives of France, the second in that of the chairman of the committee, and the third in that of the director of the bureau.
The standards of the class of national prototypes alone shall be used for the ordinary comparing work of the bureau.

solution du Comite et en presence de Intern ational

deux de ses membres.

prototypes, cont'd.

Le lieu de depot des prototypes ne pourra s'ouvrir qu'au moyen de trois clefs, dont une sera en la possession du directeur des Archives de France, la seconde dans celle du president du Comite, et la troisffime dans celle du directeur du Bureau.

Les etalons de la categorie des prototypes nationaux serviront seuls aux travaux ordinaires de comparaisons du Bureau.

Artic le 19.

Artic le 19.

The director of the bureau shall annually furnish to the committee: 1st. A financial report concerning the accounts of the preceding year,
which shall be examined, and, if found correct, a certificate to that effect shall be given him; 2d. A report on the condition of the apparatus; 3d. A general report concerning the work accomplished during the course of the year just closed.
The international committee shall make to each of the governments of the high contracting parties an annual report concerning all its scientific, technical, and administrative operations, and concerning those of the bureau. The chairman of the committee shall make a report to the general conference concerning the work that has been accomplished since its last session.
The reports and publications of the committee shall be in the French language. They shall be printed and furnished to the governments of the high contracting parties.

Le directeur du Bureau adressera, chaque annee, an Comite: 1 un rapport financier sur les comptes de 1'exercice precedent, dont il lui sera, apres verification, donne decharge; 2 un rapport sur l'etat du materiel ; 3 un rapport general sur les travaux accomplis dans le cours de 1'annee ecoulee.
Le Comiteinternational adressera, de son cote, a tons les Gouvernements des Hautes Parties contractantes un rapport annuel sur 1'ensemble de ses operations scientifiques, techniques et administratives et de celles du Bureau. Le president du Comite rendra compte a la Conference generate des travaux accomplis depuis 1'epoque de sa derniere session.
Les rapports et publications du Comite et du Bureau seront rediges en langue frangaise. Ils seront imprimis et communiques aux Gouvernements des Hautes Parties contractantes.

Reports.

Art icl e 20.

Artic le 20.

The contributions referred to in article 9 of the convention shall be paid according to the following scale:
The number representing the population, expressed in millions, shall be multiplied by the coefficient three for states in which the use of the metrical system is obligatory;
by the coefficient two for those in which it is optional;
by the coefficient one for other states.
xx------ 46

L'echelle des contributions, dont Computation of il est question a Particle 9 de la contributions. Convention, sera etablie ainsi qu'il suit:
Le chiffre de la population, exprinffi en millions, sera multiplie par le coefficient 3 pour les Etats dans lesquels le systeme metrique est obligatoire;
par le coefficient 2 pour ceux dans lesquels il n'est que facultatif;
par le coefficient 1 pour les autres Etats.

722

CONVENTION--WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. May 20, 1875.

Computation of The sum of the products thus ob-

contributions, con- tained will furnish the number of

tinued.

units by which the total expense is

to be divided. The quotient will

give the amount of the unit of ex-

pense. Arti cle 21.

La somme des produits ains obtenus fournira le nombre d'unites par lequel la depense totale devra etre divisee. Le quotient donnera le montant de 1'unite de depense.
Arti cle 21.

Computations of The expense of constructing the expense of interna- international prototypes, and the tional prototypes.
standards and test copies which are to accompany them, shall be defrayed by the high contracting parties in accordance with the scale fixed in the foregoing article.
The amounts to be paid for the comparison and verification of standards required by states not represented at this convention shall be regulated by the committee in conformity with the rates fixed in virtue of article 15 of the regulations.
Arti cle 22.

Les frais de confection des prototypes internationaux, ainsi que des etalons et temoins destines a les accompagner, seront supportes par les Hautes Parties contractantes d'apres Pechelle etablie a Particle precedent.
Les frais de comparaison et de verification des etalons demandes par des Etats qui ne participeraient pas a la presente Convention, seront regles par le Comite conformement aux taxes fixees en vertu de Particle 15 du Reglement.
Arti cle 22.

Force and effect. Signatures.

These regulations shall have the
same force and value as the con-
vention to which they are annexed. (Signed) E. B. Washburns . Hohenl ohe . App onyi . Be YENS. Visc oun t D'Itaj uba . M. Balc arc e . Molt ke -Hvit fe ld t . Marqu is De Molins . Carl os Ibanez . Dec aze s . C. De Meaux . Duma s . Nigr a . P. Galvez . Fran 'co De River o . Jose Da Silva Mende s Leal . Okou ne ff .
For M. le Baro n Adel swa rd , (prevented.)

Ker n . Husn y . E. Acosta .

H. A KERMAN.

Le present Reglement aura meme force et valeur que la Convention a laquelle il est annexe.

E. B. Wash bu rn e . Hoh en lo he . Appon yi . Bey en s . Visc ou nt D'Ita jub a . M. Bal ca rc e . Molt ke -Hvi tfe ld t . Mar qui s De Moli ns . Ca rl o s Iba ne z . Dec az es . C. De Mea ux . Dumas . Nigr a . P. Gal ve z . Fra n 'co De Riv ero . Jos6 Da Silv a Men de s Lea l . Oko un eff . Pour M. le Bar on Ade lswa rd , (empechA)

Ker n . Husn y . E. Aco sta .

H. Aker man .

Appendix No. 2.

Annexe No. 2.

Transient regu- TRANSIENT PROVISIONS. lations.

DISPOSITIONS TRANSITOIRES.

Art icl e 1.

Articl e 1.

Prototypes to States represented in conv ention of 1872.

All states which were represented at the international meter commission which met at Paris, in 1872, whether they are contracting parties to the present convention or not, shall receive the prototypes that they may have ordered, which

Tons les Etats qui etaient represents a la Commission internationale du metre reunie a Paris en 1872, qu'ils soient ou non parties contractantes a la presente Convention, recevront les prototypes qu'ils auront commandes, et

CONVENTION--WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. May 20, 1875.

723

shall be delivered to them in the condition guaranteed by the said international commission.

qui leur seront livres dans toutes les conditions de garantie determinees par ladite Commission internationale.

Arti cle 2.
The principal object of the first meeting of the general conference of weights and measures shall be to sanction these new prototypes, and to distribute them among the states which shall have expressed a desire to receive them.
In consequence, the delegates of all the governments which were represented in the international commission of 1872, as likewise the members of the French section, shall, of right, form part of this first meeting for the sanction of the prototypes.

Arti cle 2.

La premiere reunion de la Conference generale des poids et mesures mentfonnee a 1'article 3 de la Convention, aura, notamment, pour objet de sanctionner ces nouveaux prototypes et de les repartir entre les Etats qui en auront fait la demande.
En consequence, les Delegues de tons les Gouvernements qui etaient representes a la Commission internationale de 1872, ainsi que les Membres de la section frangaise, feront de droit partie de cette premiere reunion pour concourir a la sanction des prototypes.

Object of first meeting of general conference.

Articl e 3.

Articl e 3.

It shall be the duty of the international committee mentioned in article 3 of the convention, and composed as provided in article 8 of the regulations, to receive and compare the new prototypes one with the other, in accordance with the scientific decisions of the international commission of 1872, and of its permanent committee. Such modifications may, however, be made as may in future be suggested by experience.

Le Comite international men- Comparison of tionne a Particle 3 de la Convention, prototypes. et compose comine il est dit a Particle 8 du Reglement, est charge de recevoir et de comparer entre eux les nouveaux prototypes, d'apresles decisions scientifiques de la Commission internationale de 1872 et de son Comite permanent, sous reserve des modifications que Pexperience pourrait suggerer dans Pavenir.

Articl e 4.

Articl e 4.

The French section of the international commission of 1872 shall continue to have charge of the labors intrusted to it in the construction of the new prototypes, with the co-operation of the international committee.

La section frangaise de la Com- French section mission internationale de 1872 reste continued in chargee des travaux qui lui ont ete charge. confies pour la construction des nouveaux prototypes, avec le concours du Comite international.

Articl e 5.

Arti cle 5.

The cost of manufacturing the metrical standards prepared by the French section shall be reimbursed by the governments interested, according to the cost-price per unit which shall be fixed by the said
section.

Les frais de fabrication des eta- Reimbursement lons metriques constants par la of cost. section frangaise seront rembourses par les Gouvernements interesses, d'apres le prix de revient par unite qui sera determine par ladite section.

721

CONVENTION--WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. May 20, 1875.

Articl e 6.

Arti cle 6.

International committee.

The immediate formation of the international committee is authorized, and that body, when formed, is hereby empowered to make all necessary preparatory examinations for the carrying into effect of the convention, without, however, incurring any expense before the exchange of the ratifications of the said convention.

Le Comite international est autorise aseconstituer immediatement et a faire toutes les etudes preparatories necessaries pour la mise a execution de la Convention, sans engager aucune depense avant l'echan ge des ratifications de ladite Convention.

Signatures.

E. B. Wash bu rn e . Hohe nl ohe . Appony i. Bey en s . Visc ou nt D'Ita jub a . M. Balc arc e . Mol tk e -Hvi tfe ld t . Mar qu is De Mol in s . Carl os Iba ne z . Dec az es . C. De Mea ux . Dumas . Nig ra . P. Gal ve z . Fra n 'co De Riv ero . Jos Da Sil va Men de s Leal . Oko un eff . ForM. le Bar on Ade lswa rd (prevented).

Ker n . Husn y . E. Aco sta .

H. Ake rm an .

E. B. Wash bu rn e . Hohe nl ohe . Appon yi . Bey en s . Visc ou nt D'Ita jub a . M. Bal ca rc e . Mol tk e -Hvit fel dt . Marq ui s De Mol in s . Ca rl o s Iba ne z . Dec az es . C. De Meau x . Dumas . Nigr a . P. Gal ve z . Fra n 'co De Riv er o . Jose Da Sil va Mend ez Leal . Oko un eff . Pour M. le Bar on Ade lswa rd (empeclnS).

Ker n . Husn y . E. Aco sta .

H. Ake rma n .

Proclamation.

And whereas the said convention has been duly ratified on both parts, and the respective ratifications were exchanged at Paris on the 2nd of August last;
Now, therefore, be it known that I, Rutherford B. Hayes, President of the United States of America, have caused the said convention to be made public to the end that the same and every clause and article thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done in the City of Washington this twenty-seventh day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
[sea l .] seventy-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and third. R. B. HAYES.
By the President: Willia m Maxw ell Evar ts ,
Secretary of State.

