This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

DENNIS & CO., Law Book Publishers 169 MAIN STREET
BUFFALO, N. Y.
SCIENCE KNOWLEGGE
LIBRARY ofthe OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY

UNITED

STATES

STATUTES AT CONTAINING THE

LARGE

LAWS AND CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS
ENACTED DURING THE FIRST SESSION OF THE
EIGHTIETH CONGRESS 
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

1947 AND
PROCLAMATIONS , TREATIES , INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES ,
REORGANIZATION PLANS , AND PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION

COMPILED, EDITED, INDEXED, AND PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF LAW UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE

VOLUME 61 1 IN SIX PARTS

PART 4 INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS
OTHER THAN TREATIES

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1948



ERR FEB 20 51
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C.
Price $6.00 (Buckram)

CONTENTS
LIST OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN Treaties¹ INTERNATIONAL AgreemenTS OTHER THAN Treaties . INDEX_

Page 3349 CXCV

¹ [International agreements other than treaties are contained also in Parts 3, 5, and 6 of this Volume.]
iii

7 1.

LIST OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS

OTHER THAN TREATIES CONTAINED IN PART 4 OF THIS VOLUME 1

Canada. Mobile radio transmitting stations. Belgium. Interment, etc. , of American nationals killed in World War II .
Peru. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Peru... China. Relief assistance___ Czechoslovakia. Settlement of certain war accounts and claims..
United Nations. Headquarters of United Nations ---United Nations. Interim agreement on headquarters of United Nations.. France. Air transport services__ Multilateral. Postal Union of the Americas and Spain__
Multilateral. Parcel post service within the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain_ Multilateral. Exchange of money orders . Multilateral. Restitution to Austria of monetary gold looted by Germany-. Mexico. Mexican non-agricultural workers ; termination of agreement of April 29, 1943, and
refund of deductions from salaries under Railroad Retirement Act .. China. United States Educational Foundation in China Sweden. Exchange of official publications . United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Economic fusion of American and
British zones of occupation in Germany .China. Transfer of United States naval vessels and equipment to the Chinese Government .. Haiti. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Haiti____ Italy. Rights and privileges of United States forces in Italy, and the transfer of responsibility
from the Allied Military Government to the Italian Government .. Canada. Canol Project, evaluation of facilities .__. Canada. Canol Project, waiver by Canada of certain rights relating to crude oil facilities .
Canada. Canol Project, disposal of crude oil facilities .. Italy. Extradition_ .
Belgium (Belgo- Luxemburg Economic Union) . Supplement to General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of October 30, 1947.-
Canada. Supplement to General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of October 30, 1947_ . Cuba. Supplement to General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of October 30, 1947France. Supplement to General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of October 30, 1947 . Netherlands. Supplement to General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of October 30, 1947. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Supplement to General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade of October 30, 1947___ Multilateral. Restitution to Italy of monetary gold looted by Germany.
Greece. Transfer of United States naval vessels and equipment to the Greek Government. Mexico. Temporary migration of Mexican agricultural workers . Sweden. Quantitative import restrictions-Italy. Disposition and care of remains of United States military and civilian personnel_ China. United States armed forces in China__
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Military aid to Greece.. France. Interment, etc. , of American soldiers killed in World War II . France. Passport visa fees . Multilateral. Continuance of coordinated control of shipping-.
Multilateral. Shipping arrangements and recommendations of United Maritime Executive Board..
Multilateral. Provisional maritime consultative council . Canada. Allocation of FM channels in radio broadcasting-
Egypt. Air transport services ... Netherlands. Waiving of non-immigrant passport visa fees . Netherlands. Passport visas .
France. Allocation of proceeds from liquidation of German property in Sweden . Australia. Air service facilities at Eagle Farm and Amberley-. Multilateral. Establishment of Four Power Naval Commission, disposal of excess units of
Italian fleet, and return by Soviet Union of United States and British warships on loan___

Page 3349 3352 3361 3374 3410 3416 3439 3445 3479 3524 3540 3571
3575 3582 3605
3608 3618 3651
3661 3677 3679 3681 3687
3689 3695 3699 3715 3721
3725 3729 3734 3738 3745 3750 3755 3763 3767 3776 3784
3791 3796 3800 3825 3834 3838 3840 3843
3846

1 International agreements other than treaties are contained also in Parts 3, 5, and 6 of this Volume.

VI

LIST OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

Denmark. Air service facilities at Kastrup airport ... Siam. Air service facilities at Don Muang airport and Bangkapi ..

Switzerland. SCS-51 equipment at Cointrin airportNorway. Air service facilities at Gardermoen airfield_ Bolivia. Civil aviation mission to Bolivia__ Peru. Cooperative educational program in Peru .. Sweden. Air service facilities China. Mutual aid____

Hungary. Interment of remains of American military and civilian personnel..

Ecuador. Cooperative educational program in Ecuador...

Netherlands, Netherlands Indies , and United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Mutual aid settlement...

Canada. Reconversion of industry .

Italy. Financial and economic relations_

Chile. Military aviation mission to Chile .... United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Transfer and maintenance of radio

range and SCS-51 equipment... Ecuador. Civil aviation mission to Ecuador .

Philippines. Military bases in the Philippines Netherlands. Interment of American military, etc. , personnel killed in World War II.

Rumania. Disposition of remains of American military and civilian personnel__

Sweden. Passport visa fees . Mexico. Weather stations in Mexico .. Mexico. Weather stations on Guadalupe Island ..

United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. United States naval base at Argentia..
Canada. Naval forces on the American lakes .. Cuba. Weather stations in Cuba ............. France. Air service facilities in French territory. France. Air service facilities in French territory . Mexico. Mexican agricultural workersMexico. Mexican agricultural workers_

Delimitation of area adjacent to

Haiti. Haitian finances . -France. Recruitment of voluntary labor for France in the United States Zone of Germany . Belgium. Passport visa fees ..

Brazil. Air transport services_ Philippines. Postal convention . Austria. Settlement of certain war accounts and claims ..

Austria. Occupation costs of United States forces in Austria.... France. Mutual aid settlement

Lebanon. Exchange of postal money orders . Mexico. Weather stations in Mexico_.

Page 3851 3855 3859 3861 3863 3871 3893 3895 3898 3902
3924 3958 3962 4006
4008 4013 4019 4037 4042 4050 4053 4060
4065 4069 4084 4088 4095 4097 4106 4111
4113 4117 4121 4161 4168 4171 4175 4251 4276

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

FIRST SESSION OF THE EIGHTIETH CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, January 3, 1947 , and adjourned sine die on Friday, December 19, 1947
HARRY S. TRUMAN , President; ARTHUR H. VANDENBERG, President of the Senate pro tempore; JOSEPH W. MARTIN, Jr. , Speaker of the House of Representatives.

Interim arrangement between the United States of America and Canada respecting mobile radio transmitting stations . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington June 25 and August 20, 1947; entered into force August 20, 1947.

June 25 and August 20, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1670]

The Secretary of State to the Canadian Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

SIR :

WASHINGTON, D.C. June 25, 1947

I refer to recent informal discussions between representatives of the Government of Canada and the United States concerning the

entrance into Canada of United States vehicles equipped with land mobile radio transmitting equipment.

The present laws of the United States prohibit operation of un-

licensed radio transmitting equipment , and station licenses cannot be issued to aliens . It is the Department's understanding that the laws of Canada contain similar provisions.

Proposals have been made for certain modifications of United States

laws which, if adopted , would permit on a reciprocal basis alien operation of certain foreign licensed mobile equipment while it is within

the territory of the United States. However, this problem is still

under consideration , and it is believed that an interim arrangement

would be desirable, in order to permit the carriage across the border

of radio transmitting equipment installed aboard vehicles.

>

It would, therefore, be appreciated if you could inform this Depart-

ment whether the Canadian Government would be disposed to consider a reciprocal interim arrangement under which mobile radio

3349

3350

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

transmitting stations licensed by the United States or Canadian Governments could be carried from the territory in which it is licensed into the territory of the other country, without being removed from the vehicles in which such equipment is installed , on condition that this equipment be sealed in such a manner as to prevent its operation while it is in the territory of the latter country.
I am enclosing samples of the seals [ 1 ] which United States Customs officials would use in sealing Canadian equipment entering the United States. Conversely, if the arrangement is satisfactory to your Government, it is suggested that similar samples of seals, to be used by Canadian Customs officials for the same purpose, be transmitted to

this Government, together with a statement of conditions concerning their use. This exchange of seals would be useful as a basis in arrang-

ing notification of the licensees of the equipments that they may expect

to have their equipment sealed and that it should be so adapted as to

permit sealing.

I suggest that, if an agreement in the sense of the foregoing para-

graphs is acceptable to the Government of Canada , this note and your reply thereto in similar terms be regarded as constituting the terms of

an understanding on the subject between the two Governments.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration.

Enclosure : Samples of Seals. [' ]

For the Secretary of State : GARRISON NORTON

Mr. THOMAS A. STONE,

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of Canada.

The Canadian Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Acting Secretary of State

No. 317

CANADIAN EMBASSY AMBASSADE DU CANADA

AUGUST 20, 1947.

SIR :

I have the honour to refer to your note of June 25, 1947, in which you proposed a reciprocal interim arrangement between the Government of Canada and the Government of the United States of America, under which mobile radio transmitting stations licensed by the United States or Canadian Governments could be carried from the territory in which they are licensed into the territory of the other country, without being removed from the vehicles in which such equipment is installed, on condition that this equipment be sealed in such a manner as to prevent its operation while it is in the territory of the latter country.
I have received samples of the seals which United States Customs officials will use in sealing Canadian equipment entering the United States. I enclose samples of seals [1 ] which will be used by Canadian

1 ¹ [The seals are not reproduced. ]

June 25, 1947 61 STAT. ] CANADA-MOBILE RADIO STATIONS- Aug. 20, 1947

Customs officials for the same purpose with respect to United States equipment entering Canada.
I am instructed to state that the terms of this arrangement are ac-
ceptable to my Government, and that your note and this reply thereto shall constitute the terms of an understanding on the subject between the two Governments.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. THOMAS A. STONE

The Honourable ROBERT A. LOVETT,

Chargé d'Affaires

Acting Secretary of State, Washington, D.C.

3351

3352

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

June 6 and July 23, 1947 (T. I. A. S. 1672]

Agreement between the United States of America and Belgium respecting American dead in World War 11. Effected by exchange of notes
signed at Brussels June 6 and July 23, 1947 ; entered into force July 23, 1947.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Belgian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 927

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Brussels, June 6, 1947.

Interment, etc. , of American nationals
IkiIl.led in World War

EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to inquire whether Your Excellency's Government
would be willing to accord to the United States Government the concessions set forth below. These concessions are desired in order

to facilitate the interment in Belgium, or the removal to their own country, of the bodies of American nationals killed in the World War

of 1939-1945, or whose death in the European theater of operations can be directly attributed to that war, or who died in this theater of operations while employed or otherwise engaged in activities contributing to the prosecution of that war, and to permit the establishment,

construction, improvement and proper maintenance of permanent cemeteries for the final burial of, and memorials in commemoration of, American nationals who lost their lives in the above-mentioned war.

I

Temporary cemeteries within Belgium. The Belgian Government grants to the United States of America
the right to establish and maintain temporary cemeteries within Belgium subject to such control as is necessary, for the burial of persons who so lost their lives, and to make exhumations therefrom or from other locations for return to the United States or for concentration in

Restriction.

permanent cemeteries within Belgium including movement of bodies from other countries into Belgium . In view of the limited area of Belgium and the large number of military cemeteries therein already established, the Government of the United States will limit as much as possible the number of bodies of American Nationals to be moved into Belgium from other countries . No mass movement of bodies from other countries to cemeteries within Belgium for permanent interment will be undertaken by the Government of the United States.

II

Exemption from Belgian laws relating
tetoc.hygiene, permits,

The Government of the United States shall be exempted from generally applicable laws and regulations of the Belgian Government relating to hygiene and the securing of permits in connection with

June 6, 1947 61 STAT. ] BELGIUM--AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II---July 23, 1947

3353

the burial, disinterment for reburial and movement of bodies. However the Government of the United States engages to conduct such work in a manner which will in no way constitute a danger to public health and to make such sanitary arrangements as are necessary for the purpose. Exhumations, burials and movements of bodies shall be exempted from all Belgian taxes , excepting stamp taxes.

III

The Government of the United

States

may import into

Belgium

U. S. importation of necessary equipment,

from any country, and re-export therefrom after use thereof, free etc.

of customs duties and other taxes, excepting stamp taxes, the equip-

ment, supplies and materials, including means of transportation by

air, land or water, as are necessary for the accomplishment of any

of the purposes of this agreement. None of such equipment, supplies

and/or materials will be sold in Belgium, or be left in Belgium after

completion of the mission in which it is used, excepting with the express permission of the Belgian Government.
American personnel designated by the Government of the United States shall be permitted free entry into , and departure from, Belgium.

Free entry and de-
parture of U. S. personnel.

IV

The Government of the United States shall be permitted the use Use by U. S. of railroads, services, etc.
of railroads , highways , navigable waters, ports, port installations and buildings for office, warehouse and billet purposes, together with the necessary services and Belgian labor, to the extent required for the accomplishment of the purposes of this agreement, subject only to payment of the established rates of compensation therefor.

V
The Belgian Government will acquire such sites for permanent cemeteries (Fields of Honor) and/or memorials, as are deemed necessary by the Government of the United States, with usage thereof in perpetuity reserved to the Government of the United States , free of charge or compensation. Such sites shall be at locations mutually agreed upon and include sufficient ground in addition to burial space, for proper beautification, required approach roads and the construction of such buildings as are essential to the reception of visitors , housing of caretakers and maintenance purposes. Land so acquired , and the buildings and improvements thereon , shall be exempt from taxes excepting the registration tax. The right to the usage of such lands includes the right to plan, design, layout and improve permanent cemeteries, memorials, monuments and other buildings thereon, and to beautify the grounds and provide for the perpetual custody and maintenance of such cemeteries and memorials, upon receiving prior approval of competent Belgian authorities . No construction, including the establishment of simple inclosures, may be undertaken within 10 meters of foreign territory, or within 5 meters of any road, the center of which constitutes an international boundary line.

Acquisition of sites. Right to usage.

3354

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

VI Exemption of salaries, etc., from taxa- Salaries and other remuneration paid by the United States to tion .
personnel who are citizens of the United States while engaged in the operations contemplated by this agreement, shall be exempted from any and all forms of taxation, direct or indirect, excepting however that such citizens, if domiciled in, or having their permanent residence in Belgium, shall be liable for payment of the professional tax and the national emergency tax on their earnings and also the complimentary personal tax. It is understood that if a treaty for the avoidance of double taxation, now under negotiation between the Belgian and United States Governments, is adopted and supplemented by
law, American personnel in charge of permanent cemeteries will be exempted from tax on their earnings . Pending adoption of such treaty, temporary postponement of taxation on such earnings may be arranged if expressly requested by competent United States authori-
ties, with indication of names and addresses of the persons concerned.

VII

Applicability where next of kin reside in The provisions of this agreement shall apply with equal force and

Belgium .

effect to the shipment of remains from other foreign countries into

Belgium and the disposition thereof, where the next of kin reside in

Belgium or one of its possessions or territories and request final

interment of remains in a permanent United States Military Cemetery

in Belgium.

VIII

The Belgian Government will undertake to initiate legislation in the Belgian Parliament for the exemption from stamp taxes and other taxes not expressly waived in this agreement, referred to in paragraphs II, III and V above.
IX

Time limit; excep-

tion .

The rights, privileges and prerogatives reserved to the United

States herein shall be exercised prior to 1 January 1955 , except as

relates to use of lands acquired for permanent cemeteries and/or memorials, including improvements thereto and buildings constructed thereon, which shall run in perpetuity.

I take this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration .
THEODORE C. ACHILLES

His Excellency Monsieur PAUL HENRI SPAAK ,

Charge d'Affaires, a.i.

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Brussels.

June 6, 1947 61 STAT.] BELGIUM--AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II---July 23, 1947

The Belgian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
MINISTÈRE DES
AFFAIRES ÉTRANGÈRES ET DU
COMMERCE EXTERIEUR

DIRECTION GENERALE C. 2e Bureau. N° 55.828/Pr/Cim. Mil.Am.

BRUXELLES, le 23 Juil 1947

MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR ,

Me référant à la lettre de l'Ambassade , en date du 6 juin 1947 , n° 927, j'ai l'honneur de porter à la connaissance de Votre Excellence que le Gouvernement belge marque bien volontiers son accord au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis au sujet des privilèges énumérés ciaprès , tendant à permettre d'inhumer en territoire belge ou de rapatrier les restes de citoyens américains tués pendant la guerre mondiale de 1939 à 1945, ou dont le décès sur le théâtre européen des opérations

peut être imputé directement à cette guerre, ou qui sont morts sur ledit théâtre d'opérations tandis qu'ils étaient employés ou participaient autrement à des activités destinées à la poursuite de la guerre, et d'établir , de construire, d'aménager et d'entretenir convenablement des cimetières permanents pour l'inhumation définitive des

citoyens américains qui ont perdu la vie dans ladite guerre , ainsi que des monuments destinés à leur commémoration .
I. Le Gouvernement belge accorde aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique le droit d'établir et d'entretenir des cimetières temporaires en Belgique, sous réserve du contrôle nécessaire , pour y enterrer les citoyens américains , qui sont morts comme il est dit ci-dessus, ainsi que le droit d'exhumer des corps de ces cimetières temporaires et d'autres endroits pour les reconduire aux Etats-Unis ou pour les réunir dans des cimetières perma-

nents en Belgique, y compris le droit de transporter des corps d'autres pays en Belgique. Vu l'exiguïté du territoire

belge et le grand nombre de cimetières militaires qui s'y trouvent déjà, le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis limitera autant que possible le nombre des corps de citoyens américains qui seront transportés d'autres pays en Belgique . Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis n'entreprendra pas de transport massif de corps d'autres pays vers des cimetières en Belgique en vue de leur inhumation définitive. II. Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis ne sera pas soumis aux lois et réglementations généralement applicables du Gouvernement Belge, relatives à l'hygiène et à l'obtention des permis nécessaires pour inhumer, exhumer, réinhumer et transporter les corps. Cependant le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis s'engage à exécuter ces travaux de telle sorte qu'ils ne constituent pas un danger pour l'hygiène publique et à prendre les mesures sanitaires nécessaires à cette fin. Les exhumations , les inhumations et le transport des corps seront exempts de toutes taxes belges.

3355

3356

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
III . Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis pourra importer en Belgique , de n'importe quel pays, et en réexporter après usage, en exemption des droits de douane et autres taxes, l'équipement, les fournitures et le matériel, y compris les moyens de transport par air, par terre ou par eau, qui seront nécessaires pour l'exécution des fins du présent accord. Aucune partie de ces équipements, fournitures et/ou matériel ne sera vendue en Belgique, ni laissée en Belgique après l'achèvement de la mission à laquelle ils sont utilisés , sauf avec l'autorisation expresse du Gouvernement Belge . Le personnel américain , désigné par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis, pourra entrer librement en territoire belge et en ressortir librement.
IV. Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis pourra user des chemins de fer, des routes , des voies navigables, des ports, des installations portuaires , des locaux à usage de bureau, d'entrepôt et de logement, et avoir recours aux services et à la main-d'oeuvre belges nécessaires, dans la mesure exigée par l'exécution des fins du présent accord, à la condition unique d'en payer la rétribution aux taux établis.
V. Le Gouvernement belge acquerra pour y établir les cimetières permanents (Champs d'Honneur) et (ou) les monuments, les terrains que le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis jugera nécessaires, et dont ledit Gouvernement des EtatsUnis aura perpétuellement l'usage, sans qu'il soit astreint à des charges ou indemnités. L'emplacement de ces terrains sera choisi d'un commun accord et les terrains seront d'une superficie suffisante pour comprendre, outre les tombes , les embellissements et les routes d'accès nécessaires ainsi que la contruction de locaux indispensables à la réception des visiteurs, au logement des jardiniers et à la resserre du matériel d'entretien. Le terrain acquis dans ces conditions et les constructions et aménagements qui y seront faits seront exempts de taxes. Le droit d'utiliser les terrains en question comprend aussi celui de projeter, dessiner, tracer, aménager les cimetières permanents , les monuments et autres constructions qui y seront édifiés, ainsi que d'embellir les terrains et prendre les dispositions nécessaires en vue de la garde et de l'entretien perpétuels des cimetières et monuments, après accord des autorités belges compétentes. Aucune construction y compris la création de simples enceintes , ne pourra être entreprise à moins de 10 mètres d'un territoire étranger, ou à moins de 5 mètres d'une route dont l'axe forme frontière.
VI. Les salaires et autres rémunérations payés par les EtatsUnis au personnel de nationalité américaine occupé aux travaux visés par le présent accord seront exempts de toute

June 6, 1947 61 STAT. ] BELGIUM-AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II- July 23, 1947
espèce de taxe directe ou indirecte ; étant entendu cependant que les membres de ce personnel qui sont domiciliés en Belgique ou bien qui ont leur résidence permanente dans ce pays seront redevables de la taxe professionnelle et de la taxe nationale de crise, sur leurs salaires, ainsi que de l'impôt complémentaire personnel. Il est entendu que, si l'accord pour éviter la double imposition qui est actuellement négocié entre le Gouvernement belge et le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis est adopté et ratifié, le personnel américain s'occupant des cimetières sera exempté de la taxe sur les salaires . En attendant l'adoption de cet accord, on pourra convenir d'ajourner provisoirement la perception de la taxe sur les salaires , si les autorités américaines compétentes en font la demande expresse en indiquant les noms et adresse des personnes dont il s'agit. VII . Les dispositions du présent accord s'appliquent, avec mêmes force et effet, au transport par mer de dépouilles mortelles en provenance de pays étrangers et à destination de la Belgique, ainsi qu'à l'inhumation , si les plus proches parents résident en Belgique, ou dans l'un de ses territoires ou possessions et demandent qu'elles soient inhumées définitivement dans un cimetière permanent des Etats-Unis en Belgique. VIII. Le Gouvernement belge s'engage à soumettre, le cas échéant, au Parlement belge les projets de loi qui s'avéreront nécessaires en vue de l'exonération des divers droits et taxes qui n'auraient pas fait l'objet d'une exemption formelle dans le présent accord . IX. Les droits, privilèges et prérogatives réservés aux EtatsUnis en vertu du présent accord seront exercés avant le ler janvier 1955, excepté s'il s'agit de l'utilisation de terrains acquis pour en faire des cimetières permanents et (ou) pour y édifier des monuments, y compris les aménagements qui s'y rapportent et les constructions qui y seront élevées, auxquels cas lesdits droits , privilèges et prérogatives seront perpétuels.
Je saisis cette occasion , Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, de renouveler à Votre Excellence l'assurance de ma très haute considération.
Pour le Ministre des Affaires Etrangères : Le Secrétaire Général a.i. , DE ROMRÉE
Son Excellence l'Amiral ALAN GOODRICH KIRK, Ambassadeur des Etats- Unis d'Amérique, à Bruxelles.

3357

95347°-50-- PT. IV- -2

3358 Ante, p. 3352.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
AND FOREIGN COMMERCE

Translation

GENERAL ADMINISTRATION C. 2d Bureau. No. 55.828/Pr/Cim. Mil. Am.

BRUSSELS , July 23, 1947

MR. AMBASSADOR :

Referring to the Embassy's note No. 927 dated June 6 , 1947 , I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Belgian Government is happy to signify to the Government of the United States its

agreement concerning the privileges enumerated below, which are

intended to permit the burial in Belgian territory, or the repatriation, of the remains of American citizens who were killed during the World

War of 1939 to 1945 , or whose death in the European theater of operations may be ascribed directly to that war, or who died in the said theater of operations while they were employed or were otherwise taking part in activities for carrying on the war, and the establishment, construction , laying out, and proper maintenance of permanent cemeteries for the final burial of American citizens who lost their lives

in the said war, as well as of monuments intended to commemorate them .
I. The Belgian Government grants to the United States of America the right to establish and maintain temporary cemeteries in Belgium, subject to the necessary supervision, to bury therein American citizens who died as stated above, as well as the right to exhume bodies from such temporary cemeteries and from other places in order to take them back to the United States or to bring them together in permanent cemeteries in Belgium, including the right to transport bodies

from other countries to Belgium. In view of the exiguity of the Belgian territory and the great number of military cemeteries which are already there , the Government of the United States will limit as far as possible the number of bodies of American citizens which are transported from other countries to Belgium. The Government of the United States will not undertake the mass transportation of bodies from other countries to cemeteries in Belgium with a view to their final burial. II. The Government of the United States will not be subject

to the laws and regulations of the Belgian Government which are generally applicable relative to hygiene and the obtain-

ing of the necessary permits for burying, exhuming, reburying and transporting the bodies . However, the Government of the United States will promise to carry out that work so

that it will not constitute a danger to public health and to

take the sanitary measures necessary for that purpose . The exhumations, burials and transportation of the bodies shall be exempt from all Belgian taxes.

June 6, 1947 61 STAT.] BELGIUM-AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II-- July 23, 1947

III. The Government of the United States may import into

Belgium, from any country whatsoever, and re-export there-

from after using them, with exemption from customs duties

and other charges, the equipment, supplies and materials ,

including such means of transportation by air, land or water,

as may be necessary for fulfilling the purposes of the present

Agreement .

No part of such equipment, supplies and/or materials shall

be sold in Belgium or left in Belgium after the completion of the mission for which they have been used , except by the

express authorization of the Belgian Government.

The American personnel appointed by the Government of the United States may enter Belgian territory freely and depart freely therefrom. IV. The Government of the United States may use the railroads , roads, navigable waterways , ports, harbor installations and

buildings for use as offices , storage and lodging, and draw upon the necessary Belgian services and man power to the

extent required for fulfilling the purposes of the present Agreement, on the sole condition of paying the remuneration therefor at the established rates . V. The Belgian Government will acquire , in order to establish

thereon the permanent cemeteries (Fields of Honor) and (or) monuments, and plots of land which the Government of the

United States deems necessary , and of which the said Government of the United States shall have the perpetual use ,

without being compelled to pay charges or compensation .

The locations of these plots of land shall be chosen by mutual agreement and the plots shall have sufficient area to include,

in addition to the graves, such embellishments and roads of approach as may be necessary as well as the construction of

the buildings required for the reception of visitors , the quar-

ters of gardeners, and the storage of maintenance equipment .

The land acquired under these conditions and the buildings and improvements added shall be tax-exempt.

The right to use the plots in question shall include also the

right to plan, design, mark out and lay out the permanent

cemeteries , monuments and other structures which will be

built there, as well as to embellish the plots and to take the

necessary measures for the perpetual guarding and maintain-

ing of the cemeteries and monuments, after approval by the

proper Belgian authorities . No construction, including the

creation of simple enclosures , shall be undertaken less than 10

meters from a foreign territory or less than 5 meters from a

road the axis of which constitutes a boundary.

VI.

The wages and other remuneration paid by the United States

to the personnel of American nationality engaged in the work

contemplated by the present agreement shall be exempt from

3359

3360

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

VII .

every kind of direct or indirect tax ; it being understood , however, that the members of such personnel who are domiciled in Belgium or who have their permanent residences in that country shall be subject to the professional tax and the national emergency tax on their salaries, as well as on the supplementary personal tax. It is understood that, if the agreement to prevent double-taxation which is being negotiated at the present time between the Belgian Government and the Government of the United States is adopted and ratified , the American personnel concerned with the cemeteries shall be exempt from the income-tax. Pending adoption of that agreement, it may be agreed to postpone provisionally the collection of the income-tax, if the proper American authorities make an express request to that effect, indicating the names and addresses of the persons concerned .
The provisions of the present Agreement shall apply with the same force and effect to the transportation of mortal remains by sea to Belgium from foreign countries , as well as to their burial, if the next of kin live in Belgium or in one of

VIII .

its territories or possessions and request that they be buried definitively in a permanent cemetery of the United States in Belgium .
The Belgian Government pledges itself to submit to the Belgian Parlement, should the occasion arise, such proposed laws as may be found necessary for exemption from the various charges and fees which have not been the subject of a formal

exemption in the present Agreement .

IX .

The rights, privileges and prerogatives reserved for the

United States by virtue of the present Agreement shall be

exercised before January 1 , 1955 , except when it is a question

of the use of land acquired for the purpose of making perma-

nent cemeteries and (or) for the purpose of erecting monuments

thereon, including the appurtenances thereof and the buildings which will be erected there, in which cases the said rights , privileges and prerogatives shall be perpetual.
I avail myself of this occasion, Mr. Ambassador, to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my very high consideration.

For the Minister of Foreign Affairs : The Secretary General ad interim , DE ROMRÉE

His Excellency

Admiral ALAN GOODRICH KIRK,

Ambassador of the United States of America, Brussels.

61 STAT.] PERU-HEALTH AND SANITATION-JUNE 18, 25, 1947

3361

Agreement between the United States of America and Peru respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Peru, extending the agreement of May 11 , 1942, as amended, until June 30, 1948. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Lima June 18 and 25, 1947; entered into force June 25, 1947, effective July 1 , 1947.

June 18, 25, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1673]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 584 EXCELLENCY:

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Lima, June 18, 1947

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's note No. (D)-6-3/35

of April 16 , 1947 and to Ambassador Cooper's note No. 485 of April 19 , 1947 , by which the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program in Perú was extended through June 30 , 1947 .
I now have been requested by my Government to advise Your Excellency that, if the Government of Perú desires, the Institute of

61 Stat . , Pt . 3 , pp. 2961 , 2968.
Extension of Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program .

Inter-American Affairs, representing the United States, will extend the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program through June 30, 1948, and will make available for that purpose the additional sum of $ 196,582 , of which $ 50,000 will be contributed to the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública and the balance will be used

for payment of the expenses of the field party furnished by the Institute .

The Institute of Inter-American Affairs has approved the extension of the Program with the understanding that the Government of Perú will contribute to the expenses of the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública the funds necessary to complete the

budget for the Program contemplated which amounts to $ 550,000 or its equivalent in Peruvian currency to be computed at the official rate of exchange .

I shall be grateful if Your Excellency will advise me concerning the desires of the Government of Perú regarding the acceptance of this offer of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs to extend the Coop-

erative Health and Sanitation Program in Perú on the basis above indicated .

I avail myself of this occasion to extend to Your Excellency the renewed assurance of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
RALPH H. ACKERMAN

His Excellency Dr. ENRIQUE GARCÍA SAYAN, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lima.

3362

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

N°: (D)- 6-3/70 SEÑOR ENCARgado de NegOCIOS :

LIMA, 25 de junio de 1947.

Tengo a honra avisar recibo de la atenta nota de Vuestra Señoría

N° 584 , de 18 del mes en curso, en la que se sirve comunicarme que, si el Gobierno del Perú lo desea, el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-

americanos, que representa a los Estados Unidos de América , hará

extensivo hasta después del 30 de junio de 1948 el Programa Co-

operativo de Salud y Salubridad en las condiciones que Vuestra

Señoría anota, debiendo el Gobierno del Perú contribuir a los gastos del Servicio con los fondos necesarios para completar el Presupuesto

aprobado .

En respuesta, me es grato manifestarle , de acuerdo con lo expresado

a mi Despacho por el Ministerio de Salud Pública, que el Gobierno peruano acepta complacido este ofrecimiento para continuar en el

Perú el Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Salubridad .

Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterarle , Señor Encargado de Negocios, las seguridades de mi más distinguida consideración .
E. GARCÍA SAYAN

Al Honorable Señor RALPH H. ACKERMAN, Encargado de Negocios a.i. de los Estados Unidos de América. Ciudad

Translation

MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND WORSHIP

No.: (D)-6-3/70

LIMA, June 25, 1947.

MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your courteous note

No. 584 of the 18th of the current month, in which you are good

enough to inform me that , if the Government of Peru so desires , the

Institute of Inter-American Affairs, which represents the United

States of America, will extend until and including June 30, 1948 the

Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program under the conditions

which you mention , the Government of Peru having to contribute to

the expenses of the Service the funds necessary to make up the

approved Budget.

In reply, I am happy to inform you , in accordance with the com-

nunication made to my Department by the Ministry of Public Health,

that the Peruvian Government accepts with pleasure this offer to

continue the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program in Peru.

61 STAT. ] PERU-HEALTH AND SANITATION-JUNE 18, 25, 1947
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to you, Mr. Chargé d'Affaires, the assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
E. GARCÍA SAYAN
The Honorable RALPH H. ACKERMAN Chargé d'Affaires ad interim ofthe United States of America. City

3363

3364

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT

Relative to the Cooperative Program in Health and Sanitation Undertaken by the Governments of Peru and the United States of America

This Supplemental Agreement between Dr. Alberto Hurtado , Minister of Public Health and Social Welfare, representing the

Government of Peru (hereinafter called the "Minister" ) , and the

Institute of Inter-American Affairs, a corporate instrumentality of

the Government of the United States of America, (hereinafter called

the "Institute") , represented by Dr. Ernest B. Howard, (hereinafter

referred to as the "Special Representative " ) , is entered into for the

purpose of recording an extension and modification of the coopera-

tive program of health and sanitation which was undertaken by

virtue of an exchange of notes between His Excellency David Dasso , Minister of Finance and Commerce of Peru, and His Excellency

58 Stat. 1543.

Sumner Welles, Under Secretary of State, the United States of America, in May 1942, and in accordance with the agreement and amendments set forth in the subsequent exchange of letters between the Institute and the Minister, dated July 7 , 1942 and July 11 , 1942 ; [']

October 10, 1942 , October 13 , 1942 , and October 31 , 1942 ; [' ] March pp6.1248S8t,a2t49.2,. Pt . 3 , 11 , 1944 , March 15 , 1944 , and October 14, 1944 ; [ '] and by the Supp.621965S.tat ., Pt . 3, plemental Agreement dated March 27 , 1947 (all of which letters
and Supplemental Agreement hereinafter being collectively called the "Basic Agreement").
CLAUSE I

Extension of Basic Agreement.

The parties hereto mutually intend, agree and declare that the

Basic Agreement be and hereby is extended for an additional period of

one year, from the first day of July 1947 through the thirtieth day of June 1948 , and modified in accordance with the clauses hereinafter set forth .
CLAUSE II

Servicio.

The cooperative health and sanitation program in Peru shall con-

tinue to be carried out through the Servicio Cooperativo InterAmericano de Salud Publica (hereinafter called the " Servicio " ) .

CLAUSE III

Representation of Institute in Peru.

The Institute shall continue to be represented in Peru by a group
of its officials and technicians known as the "Field Party of the Health and Sanitation Division of The Institute of Inter-American

Chief of Field Party. Affairs in Peru" , and such group of officials and technicians shall remain under the immediate direction of an Institute official known

peSnsaelsaorfipeesrsaonnndele. x

as the "Chief of Field Party". The Chief of Field Party shall continue to serve as Director of the Servicio for the period comprehended by this Supplemental Agreement . The salaries and expenses , including travel expenses of the personnel of the Institute working in Peru, will be paid by the Institute from funds exclusive of those allotted to or deposited to the account of the Servicio.

1 [Not printed. ]

61 STAT. ] PERU-HEALTH AND SANITATION-JUNE 18, 25, 1947

3365

CLAUSE IV

The funds of the Servicio which are unspent and unobligated on

Availability of unspent funds.

June 30 , 1947 , the expiration date of the Basic Agreement, shall con-

tinue to be available for use in carrying out the cooperative health

and sanitation program in accordance with the terms of this Supple-

mental Agreement.

CLAUSE V

In addition to the funds required for the contributions of the Further financing of program .
parties in accordance with the Basic Agreement, the cooperative

health and sanitation program shall be further financed during the

period established by this Supplemental Agreement, as follows :

A. The Institute

shall

contribute the sum of not to

exceed

one

Contribution by Institute.

hundred ninety-six thousand five hundred eighty-two dollars

($ 196,582) of which amount fifty thousand dollars ($ 50,000 ) U. S. currency shall be deposited to the account of the servicio in the fol-

lowing manner :

During July, 1947 During January, 1948

$25,000 25,000

B. The Institute will use the balance of the funds to be contributed

Use of funds.

to pay the salaries and expenses , including travelling expenses , of the

personnel of the Institute Field Party in Peru and other Institute

employees incurred after July, 1 , 1947. The estimated sum of approxi-

mately one hundred forty-six thousand five hundred eighty-two dollars

($146,582) U. S. currency will be retained for these purposes separately

and apart from the funds to be deposited to the account of the Servicio

by the Institute and any unexpended portion thereof shall remain the property of the Institute.
C. The Government of Peru shall deposit to the account of the

Peruvian deposit.

Servicio the equivalent in Peruvian currency of Five hundred fifty thousand dollars ($550,000.00) , U. S. currency at the official conversion

rate in soles per U. S. dollar , in the following manner:

During July 1947 During October 1947 During January 1948

$137, 500.00 137, 500. 00 275, 000. 00

Amounts withheld D. The Institute may withhold from the deposits called for by Clause fromdeposits.
V-A hereof the estimated amounts deemed necessary by the Minister

and the Chief of Party to pay for the purchase in the United States of

America of materials, supplies and equipment and other expenses

relating to the execution of the program . Any funds so withheld by

the Institute shall be considered as deposited under the terms of Clause V-A hereof but, if they are not expended or obligated for such pur-

poses, they shall be deposited to the account of the Servicio at any

time by mutual agreement of the Minister and the Chief of Party. Amendment of dates
E. By written agreement between the Minister and the Chief of for deposits.
Party, the dates for making deposits , as fixed under Clauses V-A and

V-C may be amended according to the needs of the program. F. Contributions, in addition to those set out in Clauses V-A and
V-C may be received by the Servicio from any source whatsover

Additional contributions.

3366

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

and expended by it in the same manner as other funds for the uses

and objectives of the cooperative health and sanitation program

provided that the receipt of any such additional contributions by the Servicio shall first be agreed upon in writing in advance by the

Unexpended funds, etc.

Minister and Chief of Party , and Director of the Servicio. G. Any funds and other property acquired by the Servicio which
may be unexpended or unused and unobligated at the termination

of the period comprehended by this Supplemental Agreement shall

remain the property of the Government of Peru and continue to be used for the purposes of the cooperative health and sanitation program

in such manner as may be mutually agreed upon in writing by the

Minister, Chief of Party and the Director of the Servicio.

Interest on funds, etc.

H. Interest on funds of the Servicio, and any income, upon invest-

ments of the Servicio, and any increment of assets of the Servicio of whatever nature or source, shall be dedicated to the realization

of the program and shall not be credited against the contributions of the Government of Peru or of the Institute.

Maintenance of projects.

CLAUSE VI The funds provided in this Supplemental Agreement for deposit

to the Servicio may be used for maintaining projects in operation, including projects within and outside the Amazon area, and for projects

Project agreements.

to be placed in operation. The cooperative health and sanitation program shall continue to consist of individual projects . Each project shall be embodied in a project agreement which shall be mutually accepted and signed by the Minister, the Chief of Party and the Director of the Servicio . Each project agreement shall

define the nature of the work to be done, the allocation of funds

therefor, the parties responsible for the execution of the project and

any other matters which the contracting parties may wish to deterTransfer ofadminis-

tration, etc.

mine . The transfer from the Servicio to the Ministry of Public

Health and Social Welfare or otherwise of the administration, opera-

tion, control and ownership of the individual projects shall be determined and prescribed for in written agreements signed by the Minister, the Chief of Party and the Director of the Servicio.

CLAUSE VII

Administration, etc.,

of program.

All contracts and agreements to be made by the Servicio shall be

made, signed and executed by the Minister and the Director of the

Servicio. The general policies and procedures governing the realiza-

tion of the cooperative health and sanitation program, the carrying out

of the projects and the operations of the Servicio such as , but not limited to , the disbursement and accounting of funds, the purchase,

use, inventory, control and disposition of property, and any other

administrative matters , shall be determined and established by

mutual written agreement between the Minister, the Chief of Party

and the Director of the Servicio . The procedures and methods es-

tablished and in use for the operation of the Servicio under the Basic

Agreement shall continue to apply to the operation of the Servicio

61 STAT.] PERU HEALTH AND SANITATION-JUNE 18, 25, 1947

3367

during the period fixed in this Supplemental Agreement unless changed and amended as herein provided.
CLAUSE VIII
Employment and The employees of the Servicio shall be employed and retained by the replacement of perMinister in accordance with proposals made by the Director of the sonnel. Servicio to the Minister on the persons to be employed and replaced in the Servicio and the Director will be the exclusive and final judge of their qualifications . The details of employing and replacing employees of the Servicio shall be in accordance with the general policies agreed upon by the Minister and the Director of the Servicio .

CLAUSE IX

The same rights and privileges which are enjoyed by official divi-

Rights and leges.

privi-

sions of the Government of Peru and by the personnel and employees

of the same , shall accrue to the Servicio and to all its personnel and employees while performing their official duties . These rights and

privileges shall include, for example only and not exclusively, similar

rights and privileges as to telephone, telegraph, postal or transporta-

tion services, rates , etc. The customs duties paid by the Servicio for equipment , supplies and medicines destined for public health and

sanitation use in Peru will be reimbursed to the Servicio by the

Minister of Finance as shown by the respective customs house documents and receipts .

CLAUSE X Exemption from
For the purpose of this agreement, the Government of Peru accepts tarifs, te and recognizes the Institute as a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America and therefore, smong
other things, the Institute shall be exempt from all import and export tariffs , taxes, contributions and other charges . The customs duties paid by the Institute for import of supplies, equipment and materials destined for the use of the Institute will be reimbursed to the Institute
by the Minister of Finance as shown by respective Customs House documents and receipts.

CLAUSE XI
The members of the Field Party will not be obligated to pay to Peru any direct tax or contribution for purposes of social security or retirement on salaries or income when they are subject to such taxes or contributions in the United States of America. The Government of Peru shall extend free entry or shall pay the corresponding charges for material and equipment necessary for the professional use of personnel of the Field Party. In like manner the Government of Peru shall either grant free entry or pay corresponding duties on personal effects of Field Party members according to the limitations covering members of the Diplomatic Corps accredited to the Government of Peru ; for the purposes of this agreement Field Party members shall be considered as having the same free entry privileges as First Secretaries in the Diplomatic Service.

3368

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

CLAUSE XII

Inspection of books, etc.; reports.

The books , records and accounts of the Servicio shall be open at all times for their inspection by representatives of the Government of Peru and of the Institute. The Director of the Servicio shall render

reports to the Government of Peru and to the Institute at such inter-

vals as are agreed upon between the Minister and the Chief of Party.

CLAUSE XIII

Delegation of authority.

The Minister, the Chief of Party and the Director of the Servicio are

empowered to delegate their authority, prerogatives and functions to

duly appointed representatives of their own choosing provided that

each such respresentative shall be satisfactory to the said official of the other government.

Effective date.

CLAUSE XIV
This Supplemental Agreement shall become effective upon the exchange of diplomatic notes concerning the health and sanitation program between the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Government of Peru and the Embassy of the United States of America to Peru, or upon the date of execution hereof, in the event such notes have heretofore been exchanged . The Basic Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the purpose of extending the cooperative health and sanitation program, except as it is modified or is inconsistent with this Supplemental Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives , in duplicate, in the English and Spanish languages at Lima, Peru, this 28th day of June 1947 .

MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH , LABOR AND SOCIAL WELFARE

By

ALBERTO HURTADO

Minister

THE INSTITUTE OF INTERAMERICAN AFFAIRS

By

ERNEST B. HOWARD

Special Representatives

61 STAT.] PERU-HEALTH AND SANITATION JUNE 18, 25, 1947
CONVENIO SUPLEMENTARIO
Relativo al Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Salubridad Acordado por los Gobiernos del Perú y de los Estados Unidos de América
Este Convenio Suplementario suscrito entre el Doctor Alberto Hurtado, Ministro de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social , en representación del Gobierno del Perú (en adelante designado como el "Ministro") y el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos, una entidad incorporada del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América (en adelante designado como el " Instituto " ) representado por el Doctor Ernest B. Howard (en adelante designado como el " Representante Especial " ) se celebra con el propósito de introducir la extensión y modificación del programa cooperativo de Salud y Salubridad establecido por virtud de un intercambio de notas entre su Excelencia, David Dasso , Ministro de Hacienda y Comercio del Perú y su Excelencia, Sumner Welles , SubSecretario de Estado de los Estados Unidos de América en Mayo de 1942 y de acuerdo con el contrato y enmiendas expuestas en el intercambio de notas posteriores entre el Instituto y el Ministro , fechadas el 7 de Julio de 1942 y 11 de Julio de 1942 ; 10 de Octubre de 1942 , 13 de Octubre de 1942 y 31 de Octubre de 1942 ; 11 de Marzo de 1944 , 15 de Marzo de 1944 y 14 de Octubre de 1944 y por el Convenio Suplementario fechado el 27 de Marzo de 1947 (todas estas notas y Convenio Suplementario en adelante designados colectivamente como el "Contrato Básico") .
CLAUSULA I
Las partes contratantes mutuamente proponen, convienen y declaran que el Contrato Básico sea extendido por un período adicional de un año desde el primer día de Julio de 1947 hasta el 30 de Junio de 1948 y modificado de acuerdo con las cláusulas que se detallan más abajo.
CLAUSULA II
El programa cooperativo de salud y salubridad en el Perú continuará bajo la dirección del Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Salud Pública (en adelante designado como el "Servicio ") .
CLAUSULA III
Un grupo de oficiales y técnicos conocidos como la "Misión de la División de Salud y Salubridad del Instituto de Asuntos InterAmericanos en el Perú" seguirá representando al Instituto en el Perú y este grupo de oficiales y técnicos permanecerá bajo la dirección inmediata de un oficial del Instituto conocido como el "Jefe de la Misión" . El Jefe de la Misión continuará actuando como el Director del Servicio durante el período comprendido por este Convenio Suplementario. Los sueldos y gastos , incluso los gastos de viaje, del personal del Instituto que quede trabajando en el Perú , serán pagados por el Instituto de fondos diferentes de los asignados o depositados en la cuenta del Servicio.

3369

3370

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

CLAUSULA IV
Los fondos del Servicio que queden sin gastar y no comprometidos el día 30 de Junio de 1947 , fecha en que termina el Acuerdo Básico, continuarán siendo utilizados en el funcionamiento del programa cooperativo de salud y salubridad de acuerdo con los términos de este Convenio Suplementario .

CLAUSULA V

Además de los fondos aportados como contribución por las partes contratantes, de acuerdo con el Convenio Básico , el programa cooperativo de salud y salubridad será financiado también, durante el periódo establecido por el Convenio Suplementario en la forma siguiente:

A. El Instituto contribuirá con una suma que no excederá de Ciento Noventiseis Mil Quinientos Ochentidos Dolares ($ 196,582 ) , de cuya suma Cincuenta Mil Dolares ($50,000 ) moneda de Estados Unidos, serán depositados en la cuenta del Servicio en la forma siguiente:

Durante Julio, 1947 Durante Enero, 1948

$25,000 25,000

B. El Instituto utilizará el saldo de los fondos que asigna para el pago de sueldos y gastos, incluyendo gastos de viaje, a efectuarse después del 1º de Julio de 1947 del personal de la Misión del Instituto en el Perú y de otro personal empleado por el Instituto . Una suma calculada aproximadamente en Ciento Cuarentiseis Mil Quinientos Ochentidos Dolares ($ 146,582) moneda de Estados Unidos será retenida para estos propósitos , separadamente y aparte de los fondos que serán depositados en la cuenta del Servicio por el Instituto y cualesquier cantidad de esa suma no gastada permanecerá como propiedad del Instituto .
El Gobierno del Perú depositará en la cuenta del Servicio el equivalente en moneda Peruana de Quinientos Cincuenta Mil Dolares ($550,000.00) , moneda de Estados Unidos al tipo de cambio oficial en soles por cada dolar de Estados Unidos , en la forma siguiente:

Durante Julio, 1947 Durante Octubre, 1947 Durante Enero, 1948

$137, 500. 00 137,500. 00 275, 000. 00

D. El Instituto tiene derecho a retener de los depósitos mencionados en la Cláusula V-A las sumas que el Ministro y el Jefe de la Misión estimen necesarias para el pago de las compras hechas en los Estados Unidos de América de materiales, abastecimientos, equipo y otros gastos relacionados con el funcionamiento del programa. Cualquiera de los fondos así retenidos por el Instituto se considerarán como depositados bajo los términos de la Cláusula V-A de este Convenio pero si no son gastados o comprometidos para tales propósitos, se depositarán en la cuenta del Servicio, en cualquier tiempo , bajo acuerdo mutuo del Ministro y el Jefe de la Misión.
E. Por convenio escrito entre el Ministro y el Jefe de la Misión, el plan de depósitos , según Cláusulas V-A y V-C puede ser modificado de acuerdo con las necesidades del programa.

61 STAT. ] PERU- HEALTH AND SANITATION-JUNE 18, 25, 1947
F. El Servicio puede recibir contribuciones de cualquier fuente además de las mencionadas en las Cláusulas V-A y V-C y estas contribuciones las puede gastar en la misma forma que otros fondos , para los usos y propósitos del programa cooperativo de salud y salubridad, con tal que el recibo de tales contribuciones adicionales por el Servicio sea de acuerdo mutuo escrito anticipadamente entre el Ministro y el Jefe de la Misión y Director del Servicio.
G. Cualquiera de los fondos y otra propiedad adquirida por el Servicio que queden sin gastar, sin usar y no comprometidos, al terminarse el período comprendido por este Convenio Suplementario, permanecerán como propiedad del Gobierno del Perú y continuarán siendo utilizados para los propósitos del programa cooperativo de salud y salubridad en forma acordada mutuamente por escrito entre el Ministro y el Jefe de la Misión y Director del Servicio.
H. Los intereses sobre los fondos del Servicio y cualquier entrada sobre las inversiones y otro incremento al activo del Servicio, de la naturaleza que sean o fuente que provengan, tendrán que ser dedicados al funcionamiento del programa y no podrán ser considerados como parte de la contribución del Gobierno del Perú o del Instituto.
CLAUSULA VI
Los fondos aportados según los términos de este convenio para ser depositados a la cuenta del Servicio se emplearan para el mantenimiento de las obras que estan actuamente en operación, incluyendo aquellas obras dentro o fuera del area Amazónica, y para el funcionamiento de proyectos por iniciarse. El programa cooperativo de salud y salubridad continuará consistiendo en distintos proyectos . Cada proyecto quedará incorporado por un acuerdo de proyecto mutuamente aceptado y firmado por el Ministro , el Jefe de la Misión y Director del Servicio . Cada acuerdo de proyecto definirá el trabajo que se debe llevar a cabo, la asignación de fondos para tales labores, la repartición responsable para la ejecución del proyecto y otros asuntos determinados por las partes contratantes . El traspaso del Servicio al Ministro o cualquiera otra entidad de la administración, operación, control y propiedad de los distintos proyectos será determinado y prescrito por convenio escrito y firmado por el Ministro, el Jefe de la Misión y el Director del Servicio .
CLAUSULA VII
Todos los contratos y convenios que necesite hacer el Servicio se harán, firmarán y ejecutarán por el Ministro y el Director del Servicio. Las reglas y procedimientos generales que gobiernan el funcionamiento del programa cooperativo de salud y salubridad , la realización de los proyectos y las operaciones del Servicio tales como, pero no limitadas al, desembolso y contabilidad de fondos, la compra, uso, inventario, control y disposición de propiedad y cualquier otro asunto administrativo , serán determinados y establecidos por mutuo convenio escrito entre el Ministro, el Jefe de la Misión y el Director del Servicio. Los
procedimientos y metodos establecidos y en uso para el funcionamiento

3371

3372

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
del Servicio, los cuales fueron establecidos por el Convenio Básico seguirán en vigor y regirán durante el período comprendido por este Convenio Suplementario salvo que sean cambiados o modificados según aqui se estipula.
CLAUSULA VIII
Los empleados del Servicio serán designados y ratificado su nombramiento por el Ministro de acuerdo con propuesta hecha por el Director del Servicio al Ministro sobre las personas que deben ser empleadas o reemplazadas en el Servicio y el Director del Servicio será quién exclusiva y finalmente juzgará y calificará la capacidad de los mismos . Los detalles para emplear y reemplazar empleados del Servicio serán de acuerdo con los procedimientos generales acordados entre el Ministro y el Director del Servicio.
CLAUSULA IX
El Servicio y todo su personal de empleados gozarán de los privilegios y derechos de que gozan las Direcciones y otras reparticiones públicas y sus respectivos personales, mientras desempeñan sus cargos . Estos derechos y privilegios incluirán - por ejemplo pero no exclusivamente - las mismas prerrogativas con relación a usos de teléfonos , telégrafos y servicios postales y de transporte, tarifas, etc. Los derechos de aduana del Servicio por equipo 6 utiles y medicamentos destinados al servicio sanitario en el Perú serán liberados o reintegrados por el Ministerio de Hacienda en vista de las respectivas facturas 6 comprobantes aduaneros .
CLAUSULA X
Para los fines de este convenio , el Gobierno del Perú acepta y reconoce al Instituto como agencia incorporada del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de America y por lo tanto , entre otras cosas , el Instituto quedará exento del pago de tarifas de exportación e importación, impuestos, contribuciones y otros cargos . Los derechos de aduana del Instituto por equipo , útiles y materiales destinados para el uso del Instituto serán liberados o reintegrados por el Ministerio de Hacienda en vista de las respectivas facturas ó comprobantes aduaneros .
CLAUSULA XI
Los miembros que integran la Misión de Salud y Salubridad del Instituto no estarán obligados a pagar en el Perú ningún impuesto directo, seguro social ni cesantía, en el caso de que estén sujetos al pago de dichos impuestos en los Estados Unidos de America. El Gobierno del Perú permitirá a la entrada libre o en su defecto pagará los derechos correspondientes sobre material y equipo necesario para el uso profesional del personal de la Misión . Igualmente, el Gobierno del Perú permitirá la entrada libre o abonará los derechos correspondientes sobre los efectos personales de los miembros de la Misión, de acuerdo con las condiciones limitativas a que están sujetos los miembros del Cuerpo Diplomático acreditado ante el Gobierno del

61 STAT.] PERU--HEALTH AND SANITATION JUNE 18, 25, 1947
Perú, para los fines de este Convenio, los miembros de la Misión estarán considerados como Primeros Secretarios del Servicio Diplomático en lo que se refiere a franquicias.

CLAUSULA XII
Los libros, registros y cuentas del Servicio estarán en todo momento expeditos para revisiones por representantes del Gobierno del Perú y del Instituto . En periodos que se convendrá entre el Ministro y el Jefe de la Misión , el Director Del Servicio presentará informes al Gobierno del Perú y al Instituto .

CLAUSULA XIII

El Ministro, el Jefe de la Misión y el Director del Servicio tienen derecho a delegar su autoridad , prerrogativas y funciones a representantes debidamente designados y por ellos mismos escogidos con tal que cada representante sea de la aprobación del funcionario del otro Gobierno.
CLAUSULA XIV

Este Convenio Suplementario entrará en vigencia tan pronto como se hayan cambiado notas diplomáticas con respecto al programa de salud y salubridad entre el Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto del Gobierno del Perú y la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de America en el Perú ó en la fecha de la ejecución de este Convenio , si ya se han cambiado tales notas diplomáticas . El Contrato Básico continuará en completa vigencia para el propósito de extender el programa cooperativo de salud y salubridad , excepto en lo que haya sido modificado o en lo que se oponga a este Convenio Suplementario.
EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes contratantes han suscrito este Convenio
Suplementario por sus representantes debidamente autorizados , en duplicado en los idiomas Ingles y Castellano en Lima, Peru el día 28 de Junio, 1947.

MINISTERIO DE SALUD PUBLICA EL INSTITUTO DE ASUNTOS

Y ASISTENCIA SOCIAL

INTER-AMERICANOS

Por

ALBERTO HURTADO

Por

ERNEST B HOWARD

Ministro

Representante Especial

3373

95247°-50-PT. IV- 3

3374

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

October 27, 1947 (T. I. A. S. 1674]

Agreement and exchange of notes between the United States of America and China respecting relief assistance. Signed at Nanking October 27, 1947; entered into force October 27, 1947.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA
CONCERNING THE UNITED STATES RELIEF ASSISTANCE
TO THE CHINESE PEOPLE

61 STAT.]

CHINA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE - OCT. 27, 1947

3375

WHEREAS, it is the desire of the United States of America to provide relief assistance to the Chinese people to prevent suffering and to permit them to continue effectively their efforts toward recovery ; and
WHEREAS, the Chinese Government has requested the United States Government for relief assistance and has presented information which convinces the Government of the United States that the Chinese Government urgently needs assistance in obtaining the basic essentials of life for the people of China ; and
WHEREAS, the United States Congress has by Public Law 84, 80th Congress, May 31 , 1947 , authorized the provision of relief assistance to the people of those countries which, in the determination of the President, need such assistance and have given satisfactory assurance covering the relief program as required by the Act of Congress ; and
WHEREAS, the United States Government and the Chinese Government desire to define certain conditions and understandings concerning the handling and distribution of the United States relief supplies and to establish the general lines of their cooperation in meeting the relief needs of the Chinese people ;
The Government of the United States of America represented by Ambassador J. Leighton Stuart and the Government of the Republic of China represented by Dr. Liu Shih Shun , Political Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs in charge of the Ministry, have agreed as follows:

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 125.

ARTICLE I.

Furnishing of Supplies

(a) The program of assistance to be furnished shall consist of such

Types, etc.

quantities,

types and quantities of supplies, and procurement, storage, transpor-

tation and shipping services related thereto, as may be determined from time to time by the United States Government after consultation

with the Chinese Government in accordance with Public Law 84, 80th Congress, May 31 , 1947 , and any acts amendatory or supplementary

61 Stat.,Pt. 1, p. 125.

thereto . Such supplies shall be confined to certain basic essentials of

life, namely, food , medical supplies, processed and unprocessed mate-

rial for clothing, fertilizers, pesticides, fuel, and seeds . (b) Subject to the provisions of Article III the United States
Government will make no request, and will have no claim, for payment

No claim for payment.

for United States relief supplies and services furnished under this

Agreement. (c) The United States Government agencies will provide for the
procurement, storage, transportation and shipment to China of United

Procurement by U. 8. agencies, ete.

States relief supplies, except to the extent that the United States Government may authorize other means for the performance of these

services in accordance with the procedures stipulated by the United States Government. All United States relief supplies shall be procured in the United States except when specific approval for procure-

ment outside the United States is given by the United States Government.

(d) The Chinese Government will from time to time submit in

Approval of proposed Chinese

advance to the United States Government its proposed programs for programs.

3376

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Transfers.

relief import requirements. These programs shall be subject to screening and approval by the United States Government and procurement will be authorized only for items contained in the approved programs .
(e) Transfers of United States relief supplies shall be made under arrangements to be determined by the United States Government in consultation with the Chinese Government. The United States Government, whenever it deems it desirable, may retain possession of any United States relief supplies, or may recover possession of such supplies transferred , up to the city or local community where such supplies are made available to the ultimate consumers .
ARTICLE II.

Distribution of Supplies in China

(a) All United States relief supplies shall be distributed in ac-

cordance with the terms of this Agreement, by the Chinese Govern-

ment and by established voluntary agencies in China which are agreed

upon between the two Governments. Representatives of the United

States of America shall have direct supervision and control of supplies

Fiscal charges.

made available by the United States Government under this Agreement.
(b) All United States relief supply imports shall be free of fiscal

charges including customs duties up to the point where they are sold

for local currency as provided by Article III of this Agreement unless

when because of price practices, it is advisable to include customs

charges or government taxes in prices fixed , in which case the amount

thus collected on United States relief supply imports will accrue to

the special account referred to in Article III . All United States

relief supply imports given freely to indigents , institutions, and others ,

and those turned over to voluntary agencies for distribution shall be

Liaison.

free of fiscal charges including customs duties. (c) The Chinese Government will designate a high-ranking official

who shall have the responsibility of liaison between the Chinese

Distribution by Chinese Government.

Government and the United States representatives responsible for the relief program .
(d) United States relief supplies and similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources shall be distributed by the

Chinese Government and voluntary agencies without discrimination as to race, creed or political belief, and the Chinese Government shall

not permit the diversion of any such supplies to non-essential uses or for export or removal from the country while need therefor for relief purposes continues. The Chinese Government shall not permit the diversion of United States relief supplies or an excessive amount of supplies similar to United States relief supplies which are produced locally or imported from outside sources in the maintenance of armed forces.
(e) The Chinese Government will take appropriate steps regarding the distribution of United States relief supplies and similar supplies produced locally and imported from outside sources designed to

61 STAT.]

CHINA-RELIEF ASSISTANCE-OCT. 27, 1947

3377.

assure a fair and equitable share of the supplies to all classes of the people.
(f) A distribution and price-control system shall be inaugurated in such major urban centers of China as circumstances permit, with the intent of insuring that all classes of the population, irrespective of their purchasing power, shall receive a fair share of the imported or indigenously produced relief supplies . In permitting United States relief supplies made available under this Agreement to be utilized in support of Chinese efforts to improve consumption and price controls, it is understood that the United States Government undertakes no responsibility for the success of these urban programs.
ARTICLE III .

Utilization ofFunds Accruing from Sales of United States Supplies (a) The prices at which United States relief supplies will be sold

Price agreement.

in China shall be agreed upon between the Chinese Government and

the United States Government . (b) When United States relief supplies are sold for local currency,
the amount of such local currency shall be deposited by the Chinese Government in a special account in the name of the Chinese Govern-

Deposit of local currency .

ment. (c) Until June 30 , 1948 , such funds shall be disposed of only with

Disposition.

the approval of the duly authorized representative of the United

States Government for relief and work relief within China , including

local currency expenses of the United States of America incident to

the furnishing of relief. Any unencumbered balance remaining in such account on June 30 , 1948 , shall be disposed of within China for such purposes as the United States Government, pursuant to Act or

Joint Resolution of Congress , may determine . (d) The Chinese Government will, upon request, advance funds

Chinese advances.

against proceeds from the sale of United States relief supplies to the United States representatives, to meet local currency expenses incident

to the furnishing of relief, including the operation of the United States Relief Mission in China and certain urgent relief projects being under-

taken by Chinese Government organs and voluntary agencies . (e) While it is not intended that the funds accruing from sales of

Unusual costs.. :

the United States relief supplies normally shall be used to defray the local expenses of the Chinese Government in handling, transporting internally, and distributing the United States relief supplies, including

local currency cost of discharging cargo and other port charges , the United States representatives will consider with the Chinese Government the use of the funds to cover the unusual costs which would

place an undue burden on the Chinese Government. Reports on collec-
(f) The Chinese Government will each month make available to tions,etc.
the United States representatives reports on collections, balances,

and expenditures from the fund.

(g) The Chinese Government will assign officials to confer and plan with the United States representatives regarding the disposition of funds accruing from sales to assure a prompt and proper use of such funds .

3378

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ARTICLE IV.

Effective Production , Food Collections and Use of Resources to Reduce Relief Needs
(a) The Chinese Government will exert all possible efforts to secure the maximum production and collection of locally produced supplies needed for relief purposes.
(b) The Chinese Government will undertake not to permit any measures to be taken involving delivery, sale or granting of any articles of the character covered in this Agreement which would reduce the locally produced supply of such articles and thereby increase the burden of relief.
(c) The Chinese Government will furnish regularly current information to the United States representatives regarding plans and progress in achieving this objective.
(d) The Chinese Government affirms that it has taken and is taking in so far as possible the economic measures necessary to reduce its relief needs and to provide for its own future reconstruction .

ARTICLE V United States Representatives

(a) The United States Government will send to China the represent-

atives required to discharge responsibilities of the United States

Government under this Agreement and the Public Law 84, 80th

61 Stat. , Pt. 1, p.125. Congress, May 31 , 1947. The Chinese Government will permit and

facilitate the movement of the United States representatives to, in or

from China .

Freedom ofsupervision, etc.

(b) The Chinese Government will permit and facilitate in every

way the freedom of the United States representatives to supervise

the distribution of United States relief supplies and to travel, inspect,

and report in connection with any matters relating to this Agreement and will cooperate fully with them in carrying out all of the provisions of this Agreement . The Chinese Government will furnish the necessary automobile transportation to permit the United States rep-

resentatives to travel freely throughout China and without delay.

Privileges and im-

mumities.

(c) The United States representatives and the property of the

mission and of its personnel shall enjoy in China the same privileges

and immunities as are enjoyed by the personnel of the United States

Embassy in China and the property of the Embassy and of its personnel.

ARTICLE VI.

Freedom of the United States Press and Radio Representatives to Observe and Report

The Chinese Government will permit representatives of the United States Press and Radio to observe freely and report fully and without censorship regarding the distribution and utilization of relief supplies and the use of funds accruing from sale of United States relief supplies .

61 STAT.]

CHINA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE- OCT. 27, 1947

3379

ARTICLE VII .

Reports, Statistics and Information
(a) The Chinese Government will maintain adequate statistical and other records on relief and will consult with the United States repre-
sentatives, upon their request, with regard to the maintenance of such records.
(b) The Chinese Government will furnish promptly upon request of the United States representatives available information concerning the production, use, distribution , importation , and exportation of any supplies which affect the relief needs of the people.
Abuses or violations (c) In case United States representatives report apparent abuses of agreement. or violations of this Agreement, the Chinese Government will investigate and report and promptly take such remedial action as is necessary to correct such abuses or violations as are found to exist.

ARTICLE VIII .

Publicity Regarding United States Assistance

(a) The Chinese Government will permit and arrange full and continuous publicity regarding the purpose, source , character, scope,

amounts and progress of the United States relief program in China, including the utilization of funds accruing from sales of United States relief supplies for the benefit of the people .
(b) All United States relief supplies and any articles processed from

Marking, etc., of relief supplies.

such supplies, or containers of such supplies or articles, shall, to the extent practicable, be marked , stamped , branded, or labelled in a

conspicuous place in such a manner as to indicate to the ultimate consumer that such supplies or articles have been furnished by the United States of America for relief assistance ; or if such supplies,

articles or containers are incapable of being so marked , stamped , branded , or labelled , all practicable steps will be taken by the Chinese Government to inform the ultimate consumer thereof that such

supplies or articles have been furnished by the United States for relief assistance .

ARTICLE IX .

Termination of Relief Assistance
Termination by The United States Government will terminate any or all of its U.S.

relief assistance at any time whenever it determines ( 1 ) by reason of

changed conditions, the provision of relief assistance of the character authorized by Public Law 84, 80th Congress , May 31 , 1947, is no

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 125.

longer necessary ; (2 ) any provisions of this Agreement are not being

carried out ; (3) United States relief supplies , or an excessive amount

of similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources,

are being used to assist in the maintenance of armed forces in China;

or (4) United States relief supplies or similar supplies produced

locally or imported from outside sources, are being exported or removed from China. The United States Government may stop or

3380

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Termination by Chinese Government .

alter its program of assistance whenever in its determination other circumstances warrant such action .
The Chinese Government reserves the right to terminate this

Agreement whenever it deems that such relief assistance as is provided

in this Agreement is no longer necessary.

ARTICLE X.

Date of Agreement

This Agreement shall take effect as from this day's date. It shall continue in force until a date to be agreed upon by the two Governments .

Done in duplicate in the English and Chinese languages at Nanking, this twenty-seventh day of October, 1947 , corresponding to the twenty-seventh day of the tenth month of the thirty-sixth year of the Republic of China.

Leistnetwork (1) For the Government of the United States of America .

20

[2]

hinePl .Ihren

For the Government of  the Republic of China .

[J. Leighton Stuart] [Liu Shih Shun]

61 STAT.]

CHINA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE OCT. 27, 1947

The Chinese Political Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

3381

 The Ministry ofForeign Affairs
Bepublic ofChina

OCTOBER 27, 1947.

EXCELLENCY: I have the honor to refer to Article II (d) and Article IX (3 ) of the
Agreement between the Republic of China and the United States of America Concerning the United States Relief Assistance to the Chinese People signed today by the representatives of the Governments of China and the United States of America, and to state that it is understood that the right of the Chinese Government to determine the extent of its armed forces and the amount of food and other supplies which it may make available for their use is , of course, fully recognized. The approval of the above-mentioned Agreement will in no way affect this right .
On the other hand , in accordance with Public Law 84 passed by the Eightieth Congress, which authorizes the furnishing of relief assistance, the President of the United States is directed to terminate the provision of the United States relief assistance to the people of any country whenever, in his judgment, an excessive amount of supplies being made available by the United States to the people of any country or of similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources, is being used in the maintenance of armed forces in such country .
In the light of this provision of the relief law, the Government of the United States must reserve the right to terminate its relief shipments to China if, in its determination , an excessive amount of relief supplies or similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources is being used for the maintenance of armed forces in China.
It would be appreciated if you would confirm that the above is the understanding of both Governments and forms a part of the aforementioned Agreement.

Ante, pp. 3376, 3379. 61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 125.

3382

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.

2

him Shirt Run 11



His Excellency Dr. J. LEIGHTON STUART American Ambassador Nanking

The American Ambassador to the Chinese Political Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs

AMERICAN EMBASSY

No. 1230

Nanking, October 27, 1947

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note of October 27, 1947 which reads as follows:

Ante, pp. 3376, 3379. 61 Stat ., Pt. 1, p. 125.

"I have the honor to refer to Article II (d ) and Article IX (3 ) of the Agreement between the Republic of China and the United States of America Concerning the United States Relief Assistance to the Chinese People signed today by the representatives of the Governments of China and the United States of America, and to state that it is understood that the right of the Chinese Government to determine the extent of its armed forces and the amount of food and other supplies which it may make available for their use is, of course, fully recognized . The approval of the above-mentioned Agreement will in no way affect this right .
"On the other hand, in accordance with Public Law 84 passed by the Eightieth Congress, which authorizes the furnishing of relief assistance, the President of the United States is directed to terminate the provision of the United States relief assistance to the people of any country whenever, in his judgment, an excessive amount of supplies being made available by the United States to

1 [Liu. Shih Shun]

61 STAT.]

CHINA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-OCT. 27, 1947

3383

the people of any country or of similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources, is being used in the maintenance of armed forces in such country.

"In the light of this provision of the relief law, the Government

of the United States must reserve the right to terminate its relief shipments to China if, in its determination , an excessive amount

of relief supplies or similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources is being used for the maintenance of armed forces in China.

"It would be appreciated if you would confirm that the above is

the understanding of both Governments and forms a part of the aforementioned Agreement.
"I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration. "

I take pleasure in confirming that the understanding as stated in the above quoted note is accepted by the Government of the United States of America as forming a part of the Agreement signed today.

U. S. acceptance of understanding.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
J. LEIGHTON STUART Dr. LIU SHIH SHUN,

Political Vice Minister in Charge,

Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Nanking.

3384

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.



 



  

61 STAT.]

CHINA-RELIEF ASSISTANCE-OCT. 27 , 1947

3385

           ,

  



       



 





+

       



1  

 







 




   +

  

  ,   


 

  , 
  

  

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

                 
   

         

  

 

  

       



        

          

3386

61 STAT. ]

CHINA-RELIEF ASSISTANCE-OCT. 27, 1947 .

3387

                 
   ,      

  ,

 

     

 

()   ( )   

  



  



 









   



  

    

  

      



 

 





         

       ,  

 

 


 
  

3388

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

 , 
      
      

 

 



 





 ,  () 

( )  

         

 

 



  





  

    











 







  

 ,    





 



  


  
 

 
   

61 STAT.]

CHINA-RELIEF ASSISTANCE----OCT. 27, 1947

3389

  
        
 , 

   

   

   ()   ( )

   





     



      

 ,   , 



 ,  





 



 

 ,







   

 



    

  





  





95347 °-------50 --PT.IV-

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

            '                      
                
                    
                        

3390

61 STAT.]

CHINA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-OCT. 27, 1947

3391

           
       

  

       
            

 

 

   

(  ) 

 ( )

 

   

    





  

   











 



    






 
 

 



 

3392

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

             , 
            ·            
        







( )  ( ) ( )



 





  



      ,



 


+ 
,  
 













 









61 STAT. ]

CHINA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-OCT. 27, 1947

3393

             

 

  

    











  
   ,   


  

        

  

      

    



 

  

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

                    
  ,           
 Ô        
          
               .

3394

3395

 

       

      

       

CHINA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-OCT. 27, 1947

        

 

   

          

       ,

              
      

61 STAT. ]

3396

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

         



  

!        

   

 









+   ()



 





  

     

   
  
  

  

  





   

 





61 STAT. ]

CHINA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE OCT. 27, 1947

3397



      

 

  
 

      ( )  

     

 
  


  
· 

 
  

 



  

  



    


 

3398

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

    

 

 

(  )   ( )

()

 

) 



 

      

:  

 





 

 

    

 









 





  

 

  


   

61 STAT. ]

CHINA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-OCT. 27, 1947

3399

   

  



 



 





  (  ) 

  

 

   



    




 
    

  

   





 .

,    











 
 
 

 

 
  

3400

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

     
       

       

     

  
 +  

   



  , ,    





 


 

     
 


      
   

    
      

 

3401

 



 () 


 



CHINA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE OCT. 27, 1947

 



  



   

  

  

 



    



f,   



 



       



 

    


 


61 STAT. ]

         

    

     

3402

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

 
 


     

    

     

1 [J. Leighton Stuart] * [Dr. Liu Shih Shun]

E

 

61 STAT.]

CHINA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-OCT. 27, 1947

3403

The Chinese Political Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador




 :       

     

  

 

,

  

   , 

    



()

 

 



    



   



 

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

    ,  , 

 

     

     



   ,



 

  

       ,  

 

   ,  



3404

             ,    
   

61 STAT. ]

CHINA-RELIEF ASSISTANCE----OCT. 27, 1947

3405

   

 


 

 

 

95347 °-------50 -PT.IV-

3406

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

 
 



3407

The American Ambassador to the Chinese Political Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs

CHINA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-OCT. 27, 1947

 i8

+ + 

·· 

 

        :



               

(J)

                 ,







           

    











   

 

  

 , 







 





 
 

61 STAT. ]

   ,         

*    

+

   ,   ,             



















 

 













INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

.           

  

  

  









      





 

 

   

         ,  

           

  
  

.

                ·

      

 

 

 

3408

3409



CHINA-RELIEF ASSISTANCE-OCT. 27, 1947

  ; 

            ,     

 











        

  





     









      

61 STAT.]

     

3410

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

July 25, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1675]

Agreement and accompanying notes between the United States of America and Czechoslovakia respecting the settlement of certain war accounts and claims. Signed at Praha July 25, 1947 ; entered into force July 25, 1947.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CZECHOSLOVAK REPUBLIC REGARDING SETTLEMENT FOR CERTAIN WAR ACCOUNTS AND CLAIMS INCIDENT TO THE OPERATIONS OF THE U.S. ARMY IN EUROPE

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Czechoslovak Republic have reached an understanding regarding the settlement for outstanding War Accounts and claims incident to the operations of the U.S. Army in Czechoslovakia . This settlement is complete and final, and the signatory governments agree that, except as herein specifically provided , no further benefits will be sought by either of them as consideration for the foregoing. In arriving at this understanding, the signatory governments have recognized the benefits accruing to each from their contributions to the defeat of their common enemies as well as the difficulties connected on each side with the keeping of detailed accounts during a period of and following actual combat operations of field armies. Further, the rapid removal of American troops from Czechoslovakia tended to create certain economic and financial unbalances within the accounts of each government or its governmental agencies.

Article 1.

U. 8. Army procure-

ment in Czechoslo- With respect to U.S. Army procurement in Czechoslovakia includ-

vakia.

ing procurement of coal through 31 March 1946 , certain Allied Mili-

tary Marks held by the Czechoslovak Republic, Czech crowns advanced

by the U.S. Army to Czechoslovak troops, and certain supplies and

services provided representatives of the Czechoslovak Government Amounts due Czech-
oslovak Republic. by the U.S. Army, there is agreed to be due from the Government of

the United States to the Czechoslovak Republic, the net amount of

$5,018,007.07. In addition, the United States Government will return

to the Czechoslovak Republic a total of 42,500.000 crowns presently held by the U.S. Army.

Article 2.

Unsettled claims

against U. S. Armed All claims by the Czechoslovak Republic and its nationals against

Forces.

the United States Armed Forces with respect to procurement of

facilities, goods and services/other than coal/by official, quasi-official

61 STAT. ] CZECHOSLOVAKIA-WAR ACCOUNTS AND CLAIMS--JULY 25, 1947

3411

and personal representatives of the United States Army in Czechoslovakia through 31 March 1946, and not heretofore finally settled by the United States Army, will be considered discharged in full in accordance with the terms of the settlement set out in paragraph one. In this connection , financial responsibility for such procurement has been calculated at a dollar-crown conversion rate of 50 Czech crowns equal 1 dollar in accordance with prior agreement between the U.S. military authorities and the Czechoslovak government.
Article 3.
Amounts owing the Czechoslovak government in full settlement for coal provided to the U.S. Army by the Czechoslovak government during the war through 31 March 1946, and which are considered a dollar obligation of the U.S. Army, are considered paid in full by the terms of payment included in paragraph one. In this connection , financial responsibility for coal has been calculated at 50 crowns equal one U.S. dollar in accordance with prior agreement between the U.S. Military Authorities and the Czechoslovak government.

Settlement for coal.

Article 4. In consideration of this settlement, and the payments by the United lieRdeMdielmipttairoynMaorfkAsl.States Government in paragraph one, the Czechoslovak Government will consider 1,500.000 Allied Military Marks, presently held by that government and claimed to be a result of expenditures by U.S. Army personnel in Czechoslovakia, as redeemed with full dollar value at a rate of 10 marks equal 1 dollar. These Allied Military Marks will be returned to the U.S. Army by the Czechoslovak Government at the time of and in accordance with the terms of this settlement.

Article 5.

Czech crowns presently held in official U.S. Army disbursing officers' accounts, representing captured enemy funds will be returned to the Czechoslovak Government without reimbursement.

Return crowns.

of Czech

Article 6.
Settlement for servAmounts owing by the Czechoslovak Government for certain sup - ices provided Czecho plies and services provided Czechoslovak Nationals by the United slovak nationals. States Forces, European Theatre in the occupied zone of Germany from 2 March 1946 through 31 March 1947, on a cash reimbursable basis are considered as finally settled within the terms of payment in paragraph one. The records of the U. S. Army will be made available for inspection upon request relative to these supplies and services thus furnished.

Article 7.

To the extent that the United States Army advanced Czech crowns to Czechoslovak military units, and has not heretofore been reimbursed bythe Czechoslovak Government or any other Allied Government with

Crowns advanced to Czechoslovak mil-
iAtrarmyyu. nits by U. S.

3412

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

whom the Czech military forces were operating during the war, such advances are considered a responsibility of the Czechoslovak Government. All such outstanding advances are considered to be reimbursed to the U.S. Army under the terms of payment in paragraph one.
Article 8.
Payments for facilities, etc., procured by Facilities, goods and services procured by the United States Army U. S. Army.
subsequent to 31 March 1946 will be paid for on the basis of the Czechoslovak authorities presentation of appropriate documents in a form acceptable to the United States Army as has been, or may be, agreed upon between the Czechoslovak authorities and the U.S. Army. Payments already made by the United States Army for facilities, goods and services provided by the Czechoslovak Government prior to 31 March 1946, are not included within the payment terms of paragraph one of this settlement and are final.

Article 9.

Payments made by the U.S. Army under the agreement of 28 June 1946 , [ 1 ] and similar supplemental agreement of 25 September 1946 [ ¹ ]
between representatives of the two signatory governments are also to be considered final.
Article 10.
U. S. payment of claims for damages, The U.S. Army will continue to effect payment of claims against etc.
itself for damages to real or personal property , personal injuries, and death arising from acts or omissions of military personnel or civilian employees of the U.S. Army in the Czechoslovak Republic. Payment of such claims will be in accordance with the terms of agreement of 6 November 1946 [1 ] between representatives of the two signatory governments and will be final .

Article 11.

Entry into force.

All claims against the U.S. Army arising out of the operations of the U.S. Army in Czechoslovakia through 31 March 1946, other than those in paragraph ten above, are considered as settled under the provisions of this agreement. This agreement shall supersede all prior agreements between the two governments or officials thereof relating to the matters referred to herein.
Article 12.
The present Agreement comes into force on the day it is signed. Done in duplicate at Praha, this 25th day of July in the year 1947.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA :
LAURENCE A. STEINHARDT
[ SEAL] 1 ¹ [Not printed . ]

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CZECHOSLOVAK REPUBLIC :
DR BYSTRICKÝ [SEAL ]

61 STAT. ] CZECHOSLOVAKIA- WAR ACCOUNTS AND CLAIMS-JULY 25, 1947
An Official of the Czechoslovak Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
PRAGUE, July 25, 1947.
MY DEAR MR. AMBASSADOR :
With reference to the agreement signed today between our government regarding the settlement for certain outstanding war accounts, I am glad to confirm that under the payment arrangements referred to in paragraph one of that agreement , claims detailed below and totaling $6,053,647.03 are settled by that agreement :
1. Claims in the amount of $5,200.000 covering all unpaid U.S. Army Procurement of facilities, goods and services /other than coal/ in Czechoslovakia through 31 March 1946 .
2. Payment in the amount of $703,647.03 covering all coal provided the U.S. Army by the Czechoslovak Government through 31 March 1946.
3. In addition to the above, the Czechoslovak Government will turn over to the designated disbursing officer of the United States Army a total of 1,500,000 Allied Military Marks at a value of $ 150,000 in further consideration of the exchange made under the terms of the settlement agreement.
It is the further understanding of my government that Czech crowns remaining in the official accounts of U.S. Army disbursing officers in an amount not to exceed 69,039.355 Czech crowns, apart from the Czech crowns mentioned in the settlement under the terms of paragraph one of the agreement, will be available for expenditure in Czechoslovakia by the U.S. Army and its affiliated entities et a rate not less favorable to the U.S. than 50 crowns equal one U.S. dollar. Procurement of facilities, goods and services for use outside Czechoslovakia by the U.S. Army and its affiliated entities with such crowns will be freely permitted by my government on a basis no less favorable to the U.S. than 25 percent of the payment for such procurement to be made with these crowns and 75 percent of the payment to be with U.S. dollars.
I should appreciate your advising me whether the foregoing is in accordance with the understanding of the United States Government.
Sincerely yours , BYSTRICKÝ
His Excellency LAURENCE A. STEINHARDT Ambassador of the United States, Prague.

3413

3414

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
The American Ambassador to an Official of the Czechoslovak Ministry of Foreign Affairs
PRAGUE, July 25, 1947. MY DEAR DR. BYSTRICKÝ,
With reference to your letter to me of today concerning certain specific claims and procurements settled in accordance with the principal settlement agreement between our two countries of this date, I am glad to confirm that your letter is in accordance with the understanding of my government.
Sincerely yours, LAURENCE A. STEINHARDT
Dr. RUDOLF BYSTRICKÝ, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Prague.

Settlements.

The American Ambassador to an Official of the Czechoslovak Ministry of Foreign Affairs

DEAR DR. BYSTRICKÝ,

PRAGUE, July 25, 1947.

In connection with the agreement signed today between our two governments for the settlement of certain war accounts, I wish to inform you more specifically that a total of 5,639,174 crowns, now represented in the dollar accounts of U. S. Army finance officers, is shown by United States Army records to have been captured from the enemy. This amount of crowns will be turned over to the Czechoslovak govern-
ment by the United States Army without reimbursement on the part of the Czechoslovak government.

It is my further understanding that advances by the U. S. Army to the Independent Czech Brigade of 7,322,935 Czech crowns /$146,458.70/ for expenditure purposes by that unit is assumed as an obligation of the Czechoslovak government to the United States Army and is accordingly settled under the terms of settlement in paragraph one of today's agreement.
I also understand that certain facilities, supplies and services furnished on a cash reimbursable basis to the Czechoslovak government by the U.S. Forces , European Theater in the amount of $39,181.26 during the period 2 March 1946 through 31 March 1947 are settled in full under the terms of settlement in paragraph one of the agreement signed today.
I should appreciate your advising me whether the above is in accordance with the understanding of the Czechoslovak government.
Sincerely yours, LAURENCE A. STEINHARDT

Dr. RUDOLF BYSTRICKÝ

Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Prague.

61 STAT. ] CZECHOSLOVAKIA-WAR ACCOUNTS AND CLAIMS-JULY 25, 1947
An Official of the Czechoslovak Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
PRAGUE, July 25, 1947
MY DEAR MR. AMBASSADOR :
With reference to your letter to me of today concerning certain specific details of claims and procurements settled in accordance with the financial settlement agreement between our two governments this date, I am glad to confirm that your letter is in accordance with the understanding of my government.
Sincerely yours, DR BYSTRICKÝ
His Excellency LAURENCE A. STEINHARDT, Ambassador of the United States of America, Prague.

3415

3416

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

June 26 and November 21, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1676]

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Nations respecting the headquarters of the United Nations. Signed at Lake Success, New York, June 26, 1947. And exchange of notes bringing agreement into force November 21 , 1947.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE ACCORD ENTRE L'ORGANI-

UNITED NATIONS AND THE SATION DES NATIONS

UNITED STATES OF AMER- UNIES ET LES ETATS -UNIS

ICA REGARDING THE D'AMERIQUE RELATIF AU

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SIEGE DE L'ORGANISATION

UNITED NATIONS

DES NATIONS UNIES

THE UNITED NATIONS AND THE L'ORGANISATION DES NATIONS

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA :

UNIES ET LES ETATS-UNIS

D'AMERIQUE :

Desiring to conclude an agree- Désireux de conclure un accord

ment for the purpose of carrying en vue d'assurer l'exécution de la

out the Resolution adopted by the résolution adoptée par l'Assemblée

General Assembly on 14 Decem- générale le 14 décembre 1946

ber 1946 to establish the seat of établissant le siège de l'Organisa-

the United Nations in The City of tion des Nations Unies dans la

New York and to regulate ques- ville de New-York, et de règler les

tions arising as a result thereof ; ['] questions soulevées par cette décision ;

Have appointed as their repre- Ont désigné à cet effet comme

sentatives for this purpose:

leurs représentants :

The United Nations:

l'Organisation des Nations Unies :

Trygve Lie, Secretary-General, and The United States of America: George C. Marshall, Secretary of State,

Trygve Lie, Secrétaire général, et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique : George C. Marshall, Secrétaire d'Etat,

Who have agreed as follows:

qui sont convenus de ce qui suit :

ARTICLE I

ARTICLE I

Definitions

Définitions

SECTION 1

SECTION 1

In this agreement:

Aux fins du présent accord:

"Headquarters dis- (a ) The expression "head- a) L'expression "district adtrict."
quarters district" means (1 ) the ministratif" désigne 1 ° la zone

¹ [United Nations. Resolutions adopted by the General Assembly during the Second Part of its First Session from 23 October to 15 December 1946, pp. 196, 197. Lake
Success, 1947.]

61 STAT.] UNITED NATIONS -HEADQUARTERS- June 26, 1947 Nov. 21, 1947

3417

Post, p. 3435. area defined as such in Annex 1 , définie comme telle à l'annexe 1 ;

(2) any other lands or buildings 2° tous autres terrains ou conwhich from time to time may be structions qui viendraient à être

included therein by supplemental incorporés au district administra-

agreement with the appropriate tif, conformément à un accord

American authorities ;

additionnel avec les autorités amé-

ricaines compétentes ;

(b) the expression "appropriate

b)

L'expression

"les

autorités

"Appropriate American authorities."

American authorities" means such américaines compétentes" dé-

federal, state , or local authorities signe telles autorités des Etats-

in the United States as may be Unis, fédérales , d'état ou locales

appropriate in the context and in qui seraient appropriées selon le accordance with the laws and contexte et conformément aux

customs of the United States, in- lois et coutumes des Etats-Unis ,

cluding the laws and customs of y compris les lois et coutumes de

the state and local government l'état et de l'administration locale

involved ;

intéressée ;

(c) the expression "General Con- c) L'expression "Convention

vention" means the Convention on générale " désigne la convention

"General tion."

Conven-

the Privileges and Immunities of sur les privilèges et immunités de the United Nations approved by l'Organisation des Nations Unies

the General Assembly of the approuvée par l'Assemblée GéUnited Nations 13 February 1946 , nérale des Nations Unies le 13

as acceded to by the United février 1946 , telle qu'elle aura été

States ;

adoptée par le Gouvernement des

Etats-Unis dans son instrument

d'adhésion ; (d) the expression "United Na- d) L'expression "Organisation

"United Nations."

tions" means the international des Nations Unies" désigne l'insti-

organization established by the tution internationale créée par la Charter of the United Nations, Charte des Nations Unies, ci-

hereinafter referred to as the après dénommée "la Charte" ; "Charter" ;

(e) the expression "SecretaryGeneral" means the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations.

e) L'expression "Secrétaire général" désigne le Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies.

"Secretary- General."

ARTICLE II

ARTICLE II

The Headquarters District SECTION 2

District administratif SECTION 2

The seat of the United Nations Le siège de l'Organisation des

shall be the headquarters district . Nations Unies est le district administratif.

SECTION 3

SECTION 3

The appropriate American au- Les autorités américaines com- Dispossession of property.
thorities shall take whatever ac- pétentes prendront toutes les
tion may be necessary to assure mesures nécessaires pour assurer

that the United Nations shall not que l'Organisation des Nations be dispossessed of its property in Unies ne soit pas privée de la

3418 Post, p. 3432.
Radio facilities,

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

the headquarters district, except jouissance de sa propriété du as provided in Section 22 in the district administratif, en dehors event that the United Nations de l'hypothèse prévue à la section ceases to use the same ; provided 22 , c'est-à-dire au cas où l'Organithat the United Nations shall re- sation des Nations Unies cesserait

imburse the appropriate American d'utiliser ladite propriété, étant authorities for any costs incurred , entendu que l'Organisation des after consultation with the United Nations Unies remboursera aux

Nations, in liquidating by eminent autorités américaines compétentes

domain proceedings or otherwise tous les frais , qu'elles auraient

any adverse claims.

encourus après avoir consulté l'Or-

ganisation, pour liquider par une procédure d'expropriation ou par

tous autres moyens, toute revendi-

cation dirigée contre l'Organisation des Nations Unies.

SECTION 4

SECTION 4

(a) The United Nations may a) L'Organisation des Nations

establish and operate in the head- Unies pourra établir et exploiter

quarters district :

dans le district administratif:

(1 ) its own short-wave sending 1 ) ses propres installations de

and receiving radio broadcasting radiodiffusion par ondes courtes

facilities (including emergency link (stations émettrices et récep-

equipment) which may be used trices)-y compris une installation

on the same frequencies (within de liaison à employer en cas de the tolerances prescribed for the nécessité exceptionnelle qui pour-

broadcasting service by applicable ront être utilisées sur les mêmes

United States regulations ) for ra- fréquences (dans les limites des

diotelegraph, radioteletype, radio- tolérances prévues par les règletelephone, radiotelephoto , and sim- ments applicables aux Etats-

ilar services ;

Unis en matière de radio-diffusion)

pour des services de radiotélé-

graphie, radiotélétypie, radiotélé-

phonie, radiotéléphotographie, et autres services de même nature ;

(2) one point-to-point circuit 2 ) un circuit de poste à poste between the headquarters district entre le district administratif et le and the office of the United Na- bureau de Genève des Nations

tions in Geneva (using single side- Unies (en utilisant un équipement

band equipment) to be used ex- à une seule bande de modulation )

clusively for the exchange of qui sera exclusivement employé

broadcasting programs and inter- pour l'échange de programmes de

office communications ;

radiodiffusion et de communica-

tions entre bureaux ;

(3) low power micro-wave, low 3) des installations à ondes ul-

or medium frequency facilities tra courtes, moyennes ou longues

for communication within head- et à faible puissance destinées quarters buildings only, or such à assurer les communications

61 STAT.] UNITED NATIONS- HEADQUARTERS- June 26, 1947 Nov. 21, 1947

3419

other buildings as may temporarily uniquement à l'intérieur des bâtibe used by the United Nations ; ments situés dans le district ad-
ministratif ou des autres bâti-

ments que l'Organisation pourrait utiliser temporairement ;

(4) facilities for point-to-point 4 ) des installations pour les

communication to the same extent communications-de poste à poste-

and subject to the same conditions dans la même mesure et aux as permitted under applicable rules mêmes conditions que celles qui

and regulations for amateur opera- sont prévues par les lois et règletion in the United States, except ments en vigueur relativement à that such rules and regulations l'exploitation des postes d'amateur shall not be applied in a manner aux Etats-Unis, sous réserve ce-

inconsistent with the inviolability pendant que ces lois et règlements

of the headquarters district pro- ne seront pas appliqués d'une

vided by Section 9 ( a) ;

manière incompatible avec l'in-

violabilité du district administra-

Post, p. 3422.

tif, prévue à la section 9 a); (5) such other radio facilities 5) toutes autres installations de

as may be specified by supplemental agreement between the United Nations and the appropriate American authorities.
(b) The United Nations shall

radio qui pourraient être désignées par un accord additionnel entre l'Organisation des Nations Unies et les autorités américaines compétentes .
b) L'Organisation des Nations

Arrangements for operation of services.

make arrangements for the opera- Unies prendra, avec l'Union intion of the services referred to in ternationale des télécommunica-

this section with the International tions, les administrations compéTelecommunication Union, the tentes du Gouvernement des

appropriate agencies of the Gov- Etats-Unis et de tous autres Gouernment of the United States and vernements intéressés , les arrange-

the appropriate agencies of other ments nécessaires, en ce qui con-

affected governments with regard cerne toutes fréquences et autres

to all frequencies and similar questions analogues, pour l'exploi-

matters.

tation des services mentionnés à la

(c) The facilities provided for in this section may, to the extent

présente section. c) Dans la mesure nécessaire
à l'efficacité de l'exploitation, les

Operation of facilities outside head-
quarters district.

necessary for efficient operation, be installations prévues par la préestablished and operated outside sente section pourront être éta-

the headquarters district. The blies et exploitées en dehors du appropriate American authorities district administratif. A la de-

will, on request of the United mande de l'Organisation des NaNations, make arrangements , on tions Unies, les autorités amérisuch terms and in such manner as caines compétentes prendront des

may be agreed upon by supple- dispositions pour l'acquisition ou mental agreement, for the acqui- l'utilisation par les Nations Unies , sition or use by the United Na- aux termes et modalités à con-

tions of appropriate premises for venir dans un accord additionnel,

such purposes and the inclusion de locaux appropriés à cet effet ,

3420

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Aerodrome. Postal service.

of such premises in the head- et pour l'incorporation de ces lo-

quarters district.

caux au district administratif.

SECTION 5

SECTION 5

In the event that the United Au cas où l'Organisation des

Nations should find it necessary Nations Unies estimerait nécesand desirable to establish and oper- saire et souhaitable d'établir et ate an aerodrome, the conditions d'exploiter un aérodrome, les confor the location, use and operation ditions relatives à l'emplacement, of such an aerodrome and the con- à l'utilisation et à l'exploitation ditions under which there shall be de cet aérodrome, ainsi que les

entry into and exit therefrom shall conditions dans lesquelles se feront

be the subject of a supplemental les entrées et les sorties de l'aéro-

agreement.

drome, feront l'objet d'un accord

additionnel .

SECTION 6

SECTION 6

In the event that the United Au cas où l'Organisation des

Nations should propose to organ- Nations Unies se proposerait d'or-

ize its own postal service , the ganiser son propre service postal, conditions under which such serv- les conditions de la création de ce

ice shall be set up shall be the service feront l'objet d'un accord

subject of a supplemental agree- additionnel. ment.

ARTICLE III

ARTICLE III

Law and Authority in the Head- Droit en vigueur et autorités

quarters District

compétentes dans le district

administratif

SECTION 7

SECTION 7

(a) The headquarters district a) Le district administratif sera shall be under the control and sous le contrôle et l'autorité de

authority of the United Nations l'Organisation des Nations Unies,

as provided in this agreement .

conformément aux dispositions du

présent accord.

Applicability of U. 8. laws.

(b) Except as otherwise pro-

b) Sauf dispositions contraires

vided in this agreement or in the du présent accord ou de la Con-

General Convention, the federal, vention générale, les lois fédérales , state and local law of the United d'état et locales des Etats-Unis

Jurisdiction of U. S. courts.

States shall apply within the headquarters district.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this agreement or in the

seront applicables à l'intérieur du district administratif. ·
c) Sauf dispositions contraires
du présent accord ou de la Con-

General Convention, the federal, vention générale, les tribunaux state and local courts of the fédéraux, d'état ou locaux des

United States shall have jurisdic- Etats-Unis seront compétents pour

tion over acts done and transac- connaître, selon les termes des

tions taking place in the head- lois fédérales, d'état ou locales

quarters district as provided in applicables en l'espèce, des actes

61 STAT.] UNITED NATIONS-HEADQUARTERS- June 26, 1947 Nov. 21 , 1947

3421

applicable federal , state and local accomplis ou des transactions ef-

laws.

fectuées à l'intérieur du district

administratif.

(d) The federal, state and local d) Les tribunaux fédéraux ,

courts of the United States , when d'état ou locaux des Etats-Unis, dealing with cases arising out of or lorsqu'ils auront à connaître d'afrelating to acts done or transac- faires nées à l'occasion d'actes

tions taking place in the head- accomplis ou de transactions efquarters district, shall take into fectuées dans le district adminis-

account the regulations enacted tratif, ou s'y rapportant, tiendront

by the United Nations under compte des règlements édictés par

Section 8.

l'Organisation des Nations Unies

conformément à la section 8.

SECTION 8

SECTION 8

The United Nations shall have L'Organisation des Nations

U. N. regulations.

the power to make regulations, Unies aura le droit d'édicter des

operative within the headquarters règlements exécutoires dans le district, for the purpose of estab- district administratif et destinés

lishing therein conditions in all à y créer, à tous les égards, les respects necessary for the full conditions nécessaires au plein execution of its functions. No exercice de ses attributions . Les

federal, state or local law or regu- lois ou règlements fédéraux, d'état lation of the United States which ou locaux des Etats-Unis d'Amé-

is inconsistent with a regulation rique ne seront pas applicables of the United Nations authorized à l'intérieur du district adminis-

by this section shall, to the extent tratif, dans la mesure où ils

of such inconsistency, be applica- seraient incompatibles aavveecc un

ble within the headquarters district. Any dispute, between the United Nations and the United

des règlements que l'Organisation des Nations Unies a le droit d'édicter en vertu de la présente

Settlement of disputes.

States , as to whether a regulation section. Tout différend entre

of the United Nations is author- l'Organisation des Nations Unies ized by this section or as to whether et les Etats-Unis sur la question

a federal, state or local law or de savoir si un règlement de l'Or-

regulation is inconsistent with any ganisation des Nations Unies est regulation of the United Nations compatible avec la présente secauthorized by this section , shall tion, ou si une loi ou règlementa-

be promptly settled as provided tion fédérale, d'état ou locale est in Section 21. Pending such set- incompatible avec l'un quelconque

Post, p. 3431.

tlement , the regulation of the des règlements édictés par l'OrUnited Nations shall apply, and ganisation des Nations Unies, the federal , state or local law or conformément aux dispositions de

regulation shall be inapplicable in la présente section, devra être the headquarters district to the rapidement réglé selon la procé extent that the United Nations dure prévue à la section 21. claims it to be inconsistent with Jusqu'à la solution du différend,

the regulation of the United le règlement de l'Organisation des Nations. This section shall not Nations Unies restera applicable ulFaitrieonpsr. otection reg-
95347°-50- PT, IV- 6

3422

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

prevent the reasonable applica- et la loi ou la règlementation

tion of fire protection regulations fédérale , d'état ou locale sera

of the appropriate American inapplicable dans le district ad-

authorities .

ministratif dans la mesure où

l'Organisation des Nations Unies

la considère comme incompatible

avec ledit règlement. Cette sec-

tion ne fera pas obstacle à l'application raisonnable des règlements

de protection contre l'incendie édictés par les autorités américaines compétentes.

SECTION 9

SECTION 9

Inviolability of headquarters district.

(a) The headquarters district shall be inviolable . Federal, state or local officers or officials of the

a) Le district administratif sera inviolable . Les agents ou fonctionnaires des Etats-Unis d'Amé-

United States, whether adminis- rique, relevant d'une autorité fé-

trative , judicial , military or police , dérale , d'état ou locale, qu'ils soient

shall not enter the headquarters administratifs, judiciaires, mili-

district to perform any official taires ou de police, ne pourront

duties therein except with the con- entrer dans le district adminis-

sent of and under conditions tratif pour y exercer leurs fonc-

Service process.

of

legal

agreed to by the Secretary-General . The service of legal proc-
ess, including the seizure of private property, may take place

tions officielles qu'avec le consentement du Secrétaire général et
dans les conditions acceptées par celui-ci . L'exécution des actes de

within the headquarters district procédure, y compris la saisie de

only with the consent of and under biens privés, ne pourra avoir lieu

conditions approved by the Sec- dans le district administratif, qu'-

retary-General .

avec le consentement et dans les

Refuge for persons avoiding arrest, etc., restriction.

conditions approuvées par le Secrétaire général. (b) Without prejudice to the b) Sans qu'il puisse être porté provisions of the General Con- atteinte aux dispositions de la

Post, p. 3423.

vention or Article IV of this Convention générale ou de l'article agreement, the United Nations IV du présent accord , l'Organi-

shall prevent the headquarters sation des Nations Unies empê-

district from becoming a refuge chera que le district administratif either for persons who are avoid- devienne le refuge de personnes

ing arrest under the federal, state, tentant à échapper à une arrestaor local law of the United States tion ordonnée en exécution d'une

or are required by the Government loi fédérale, d'état ou locale des of the United States for extradi- Etats-Unis, ou réclamées par le

tion to another country, or for Gouvernement des Etats-Unis pour

persons who are endeavoring to être extradées dans un autre pays,

avoid service of legal process.

ou cherchant à se dérober à

l'exécution d'un acte de procédure.

61 STAT. ] UNITED NATIONS- HEADQUARTERS- June 26 , 1947 Nov. 21 , 1947

3423

SECTION 10

SECTION 10

The United Nations may expel L'Organisation des Nations Violation of regula- tions.

or exclude persons from the head- Unies pourra expulser ou exclure

quarters district for violation of du district administratif toute

its regulations adopted under Sec- personne, et ce , soit pour violation 8 or for other cause. Persons tion des règlements adoptés con-

who violate such regulations shall formément aux dispositions de

be subject to other penalties or to la section 8 , soit pour toute autre

detention under arrest only in cause. Les infractions à ces règle-

accordance with the provisions of ments ne pourront donner lieu à

such laws or regulations as may d'autres sanctions, ou à la déten-

be adopted by the appropriate tion sous arrestation, que si elles

American authorities.

sont prévues par les lois et règle-

ments qui pourront être adoptés

par les autorités américaines com-

pétentes .

ARTICLE IV

ARTICLE IV

Communications and Transit

Communications et transit

SECTION 11

SECTION 11

The federal, state or local au- Les autorités fédérales, d'état ou thorities of the United States shall locales des Etats-Unis ne mettront

not impose any impediments to aucun obstacle au transit à destitransit to or from the headquarters nation ou en provenance du disdistrict of (1 ) representatives of trict administratif: 1 ) des repréMembers or officials of the United sentants des Membres ou des

Nations, or of specialized agencies fonctionnaires de l'Organisation as defined in Article 57 , para- des Nations Unies, ou des institugraph 2 , of the Charter, or tions spécialisées telles que définies the families of such representa- à l'article 57 , paragraphe 2 de la tives or officials, (2 ) experts per- Charte , ou des familles de ces forming missions for the United représentants et fonctionnaires ; 2 ) Nations or for such specialized des experts accomplissant des misagencies, (3) representatives of the sions pour l'Organisation des Napress , or of radio , film or other in- tions Unies ou pour lesdites instiformation agencies, who have been tutions spécialisées ; 3 ) des repréaccredited by the United Nations sentants de la presse, de la radio, (or by such a specialized agency) du cinéma ou de toutes autres in its discretion after consultation agences d'information que l'Orwith the United States, (4 ) repre- ganisation des Nations Unies (ou sentatives of non-governmental l'une des institutions spécialisées) organizations recognized by the aura décidé d'agréer après consulUnited Nations for the purpose of tation avec les Etats-Unis ; 4 ) des consultation under Article 71 of représentants des organisations the Charter, or (5 ) other persons non gouvernementales admises par invited to the headquarters dis- l'Organisation des Nations Unies trict by the United Nations or by au statut d'organes consultatifs,

59 Stat. 1046. 59 Stat. 1047.

3424

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Post, p. 3429.

such specialized agency on official conformément à l'article 71 de la business . The appropriate Amer- Charte ; ou 5 ) d'autres personnes ican authorities shall afford any invitées à venir dans le district necessary protection to such per- administratif par l'Organisation sons while in transit to or from the des Nations Unies ou par l'une des headquarters district. This section institutions spécialisées , pour afdoes not apply to general inter- faires officielles. Les autorités

ruptions of transportation which américaines compétentes accor-

are to be dealt with as provided in deront la protection nécessaire aux

Section 17 , and does not impair personnes ci-dessus énumérées pen-

the effectiveness of generally appli- dant leur circulation en transit à cable laws and regulations as to destination ou en provenance du

the operation of means of trans- district administratif. La pré-

portation.

sente section ne s'applique pas

aux cas d'interruption générale des transports, qui seront traités comme il est prévu à la section 17,
et ne fait pas obstacle à l'application des lois et règlements généralement applicables en ce qui concerne l'exploitation des moyens de transport.

SECTION 12

SECTION 12

The provisions of Section 11 Les dispositions de la section 11 shall be applicable irrespective of s'appliqueront quelles que soient the relations existing between the les relations existant entre les Governments of the persons re- Gouvernements dont relèvent les ferred to in that section and the personnes mentionnées à ladite Government of the United States . section et le Gouvernement des
Etats -Unis .

SECTION 13

SECTION 13

Entry of aliens.

(a) Laws and regulations in a ) Les dispositions législatives

force in the United States regard- et règlementaires sur l'entrée des ing the entry of aliens shall not be étrangers , en vigueur aux Etatsapplied in such manner as to inter- Unis, ne pourront pas être applifere with the privileges referred quées de manière à porter atteinte to in Section 11. When visas are aux privilèges prévus à la section required for persons referred to in 11. Les visas nécessaires aux

Residence of aliens.

that Section, they shall be granted personnes mentionnées dans cette

without charge and as promptly section seront accordés sans frais

as possible.

et aussi rapidement que possible.

(b) Laws and regulations in b) Les dispositions législatives

force in the United States regard- et règlementaires sur le séjour des

ing the residence of aliens shall not étrangers, en vigueur aux Etats-

be applied in such manner as to Unis , ne pourront pas être appli-

interfere with the privileges re- quées de manière à porter atteinte

ferred to in Section 11 and, spe- aux privilèges prévus à la section

cifically, shall not be applied in 11. Elles ne pourront notam-

such manner as to require any ment pas être appliquées de ma-

61 STAT.] UNITED NATIONS- HEADQUARTERS- June 26, 1947 Nov. 21 , 1947

3425

such person to leave the United nière à contraindre ces personnes à States on account of any activities quitter les Etats-Unis en raison de

performed by him in his official toute activité poursuivie par elles Abuse of residence capacity. In case of abuse of en leur qualité officielle . Il est privileges.

such privileges of residence by any toutefois entendu qu'au cas où

such person in activities in the l'une de ces personnes abuserait de United States outside his official ces privilèges en exerçant , sur le

capacity , it is understood that the territoire des Etats-Unis, des ac-

privileges referred to in Section 11 tivités sans rapport avec sa qualité shall not be construed to grant officielle, les privilèges prévus à la

him exemption from the laws and section 11 ne seront pas interprétés regulations of the United States de manière à la soustraire à

regarding the continued residence l'application des dispositions légis-

of aliens, provided that:

latives et règlementaires des Etats-

Unis , concernant le séjour continu

des étrangers , sous réserve que : (1) No proceedings shall be 1 ) aucune action ne sera in-

instituted under such laws or reg- tentée en vertu de ces dispositions ulations to require any such per- législatives ou règlementaires pour son to leave the United States contraindre l'une des personnes

except with the prior approval of sus-mentionnées à quitter les the Secretary of State of the United Etats-Unis, sans l'approbation

States. Such approval shall be préalable du Secrétaire d'Etat des given only after consultation with Etats-Unis. Cette approbation

the appropriate Member in the ne pourra être donnée qu'après case of a representative of a Mem- consultation avec le Membre

ber (or a member of his family) or intéressé de l'Organisation des

with the Secretary-General or the Nations Unies , s'il s'agit d'un

principal executive officer of the représentant d'un Membre (ou

appropriate specialized agency in d'un membre de sa famille ) ou

the case of any other person re- avec le Secrétaire général ou le

ferred to in Section 11 ;

Directeur général de l'institu-

tion spécialisée intéressée s'il

s'agit de toute autre personne visée à la section 11 ;
(2) A representative of the 2) un représentant du Membre Member concerned , the Secretary- intéressé , le Secrétaire général de General, or the principal execu- l'Organisation des Nations Unies tive officer of the appropriate ou le Directeur général de l'inspecialized agency, as the case stitution spécialisée intéressée, may be, shall have the right to selon le cas, aura le droit de comappear in any such proceedings on paraître pour la personne contre behalf of the person against whom laquelle l'action est intentée ; they are instituted ;
(3) Persons who are entitled to 3) les personnes qui bénéficient

diplomatic privileges and immuni- des privilèges et immunités diploties under Section 15 or under the matiques en vertu de la section 15 General Convention shall not be ou de la Convention générale , ne required to leave the United pourront être requises de quitter

3426

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

States otherwise than in accord- les Etats-Unis que conformément ance with the customary procedure à la procédure d'usage applicable applicable to diplomatic envoys aux envoyés diplomatiques acaccredited to the United States. crédités auprès du Gouvernement
des Etats-Unis.

(c) This section does not pre- c) La présente section ne disvent the requirement of reasonable pense pas de la production, sur evidence to establish that persons demande, de preuves raisonnables claiming the rights granted by établissant que les personnes se Section 11 come within the classes réclamant des droits accordés à la

described in that section, or the section 11 rentrent bien dans les

reasonable application of quaran- catégories prévues à ladite section .

tine and health regulations.

Elle n'exclut pas en outre l'appli-

cation raisonnable des règlements

U. S. control over entry of persons, etc.

(d) Except as provided above in this section and in the General Convention, the United States

de quarantaine et de santé publique .
d) Sous réserve des dispositions précédentes de la présente section et de celles de la Convention

retains full control and authority générale, les Etats-Unis gardent over the entry of persons or le plein pouvoir de décision et de

property into the territory of the contrôle en ce qui concerne l'entrée

United States and the conditions de personnes ou de biens sur le

under which persons may remain territoire des Etats-Unis et les

or reside there.

conditions auxquelles ces person-

nes seront admises à demeurer ou

Registration.

à résider sur ledit territoire. (e) The Secretary-General shall , e) A la demande des autorités

at the request of the appropriate américaines compétentes , le Secré-

American authorities, enter into taire général entrera en négociadiscussions with such authorities, tions avec elles en vue de prendre

with a view to making arrange- les dispositions nécessaires pour

ments for registering the arrival l'enregistrement des arrivées et

and departure of persons who have départs des personnes titulaires de

been granted visas valid only for visas limités au transit à destina-

transit to and from the headquar- tion et en provenance du district

ters district and sojourn therein administratif, et ne les autorisant

and in its immediate vicinity.

à séjourner que dans le district

Entry into headquarters district, etc.

administratif et dans son voisinage immédiat.
(f) The United Nations shall , f) Sous réserve des dispositions

subject to the foregoing provisions précédentes de la présente section,

of this section, have the exclusive l'Organisation des Nations Unies

right to authorize or prohibit aura le droit exclusif d'autoriser

entry of persons and property into ou d'interdire l'entrée dans le

the headquarters district and to district administratif des personnes

prescribe the conditions under et des biens, ainsi que de prescrire

which persons may remain or les conditions auxquelles les per-

reside there.

sonnes pourront y demeurer ou

y résider.

61 STAT. ] UNITED NATIONS- HEADQUARTERS- June 26, 1947 Nov. 21 , 1947

3427

SECTION 14

SECTION 14

Facilitation of enThe Secretary- General and the Le Secrétaire général et les trance.

appropriate American authorities autorités américaines compétentes , shall, at the request of either of à la demande de l'un d'entre eux, them , consult as to methods of se consulteront au sujet des mefacilitating entrance into the sures propres à faciliter l'entrée

United States, and the use of aux Etats-Unis de personnes veavailable means of transportation, nant de l'étranger qui désirent by persons coming from abroad se rendre dans le district adminis-

who wish to visit the headquarters tratif et qui ne bénéficient pas

district and do not enjoy the rights des droits prévus dans le présent

referred to in this Article.

article. Ils se consulteront égale-

ment au sujet de l'utilisation par

ces mêmes personnes des moyens

de transport disponibles.

ARTICLE V

ARTICLE V

Resident Representatives to the Représentants permanents auprès

United Nations

de l'Organisation des Nations

Unies

SECTION 15

SECTION 15

(1) Every person designated by a Member as the principal

1 ) Toute personne nommée auprès de l'Organisation des

resident representative to

Nations Unies par un Mem-

the United Nations of such

bre, en qualité de représen-

Member or as a resident

tant permanent principal ou

representative with the rank of ambassador or minister

de représentant permanent ayant rang d'ambassadeur

plenipotentiary,

ou de ministre plénipoten-

tiaire ;

(2) such resident members of their staffs as may be agreed upon between the Secretary - General , the Government of the United States and the Government of the Member con-

2) tous membres permanents de leur personnel, qui seront désignés suivant accord entre le Secrétaire général, le Gouvernement des EtatsUnis et le Gouvernement de l'Etat intéressé;

cerned ,

(3) every person designated by a Member of a specialized agency, as defined in Ar-
ticle 57 , paragraph 2 , of the Charter, as its principal resident representative, with the rank of ambassador or minister plenipotentiary, at the headquarters of such agency in the United States, and

3) toute personne nommée par un Membre d'une institution spécialisée , telle que définie aux termes du paragraphe 2 de l'Article 57 de la Charte, en qualité de représentant permanent principal, ayant rang d'ambassadeur ou de ministre plénipotentiaire, auprès de ladite institution spécialisée à son

siège aux Etats-Unis, et

59 Stat. 1046,

3428

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

(4) such other principal resident representatives of
members to a specialized agency and such resident members of the staffs of

4) tout autre représentant permanent principal d'un Membre d'une institution spécialisée, ainsi que tous membres permanents du personnel des

representatives to a specialized agency as may be agreed upon between the principal executive officer of the specialized agency, the Government of the United States and the Government of the Member

représentants auprès d'une institution spécialisée, qui seront désignés suivant accord entre le Directeur général de l'institution spécialisée , le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis et le Gouvernement du Membre intéressé,

concerned ,

munPriitviielse.ges and im shall , whether residing inside or jouiront, sur le territoire des outside the headquarters district, Etats-Unis, qu'ils demeurent à

be entitled in the territory of the l'intérieur ou à l'extérieur du disUnited States to the same privi- trict administratif, des mêmes

leges and immunities, subject to privilèges et immunités qui sont

corresponding conditions and obli- accordés par les Etats-Unis aux

gations , as it accords to diplomatic envoyés diplomatiques accrédités

Members of govern envoys accredited to it. In the auprès d'eux, et ce, sous réserve

ments not recognized

by U. S.

case of Members whose govern- des conditions et obligations cor-

ments are not recognized by the respondantes. Dans le cas où le

United States, such privileges and Gouvernement d'un Membre n'est immunities need be extended to pas reconnu par les Etats-Unis ,

such representatives , or persons on ceux-ci pourront restreindre les

the staffs of such representatives , privilèges de ses représentants et

only within the headquarters dis- des membres de leur personnel, trict, at their residences and offices aux limites du district administra-

outside the district, in transit be- tif, au lieu de leur résidence et de tween the district and such resi- leurs bureaux, s'ils sont situés en

dences and offices, and in transit dehors du district, au cours de

on official business to or from leurs voyages entre le district et

foreign countries.

leur lieu de résidence et leurs

bureaux, ainsi qu'au cours des missions officielles , à destination

ou en provenance de l'étranger.

ARTICLE VI

ARTICLE VI

Police Protection of the Headquarters District

Mesures de police destinées à assurer la protection du district administratif

SECTION 16

SECTION 16

(a) The appropriate American a) Les autorités américaines authorities shall exercise due dili- compétentes prendront les megence to ensure that the tran- sures appropriées afin d'éviter que quility of the headquarters district la tranquillité du district adminis-

61 STAT. ] UNITED NATIONS- HEADQUARTERS- June 26 , 1947 Nov. 21 , 1947

3429

is not disturbed by the unauthor- tratif ne soit troublée par l'entrée

ized entry of groups of persons non autorisée de groupes de per-

from outside or by disturbances in sonnes, ou par des désordres dans

its immediate vicinity and shall le voisinage immédiat du district.

cause to be provided on the A cette fin, elles assureront , aux

boundaries of the headquarters limites du district administratif,

district such police protection as toute protection de police néces-

is required for these purposes .

saire.

(b) If so requested by the b) A la demande du Secrétaire

Secretary-General , the appropriate général , les autorités américaines American authorities shall provide compétentes fourniront des forces a sufficient number of police for de police suffisantes pour assurer, the preservation of law and order à l'intérieur du district adminis-

in the headquarters district, and tratif, le respect de la loi et de for the removal therefrom of l'ordre public, et pour expulser

persons as requested under the toute personne, suivant les inauthority of the United Nations . structions données sous l'autorité The United Nations shall , if re- de l'Organisation des Nations quested, enter into arrangements Unies. L'Organisation des Nations with the appropriate American Unies, si les autorités américaines authorities to reimburse them for compétentes en font la demande, the reasonable cost of such s'entendra avec celles-ci en vue de

services.

leur rembourser les dépenses raisonnables occasionnées par ces services .

ARTICLE VII

ARTICLE VII

Reimbursement.

Public Services and Protection of the
Headquarters District SECTION 17

Services publics et protection du district
administratif
SECTION 17

(a) The appropriate American a) Les autorités américaines authorities will exercise to the compétentes feront usage, dans

extent requested by the Secretary- la mesure où le Secrétaire général General the powers which they le demandera , des pouvoirs dont possess with respect to the supply- elles disposent à cet égard , pour ing of public services to ensure that assurer la fourniture au district the headquarters district shall be administratif, à des conditions

supplied on equitable terms with équitables , des services publics the necessary public services , in- nécessaires , y compris l'électricité, cluding electricity, water, gas, l'eau, le gaz , les services postaux, post, telephone, telegraph, trans- téléphoniques, télégraphiques, les portation, drainage, collection of transports , l'évacuation des eaux, refuse, fire protection, snow re- l'enlèvement des ordures, les sermoval, et cetera. In case of any vices d'incendie, l'enlèvement de la iceIsn.terruption ofservinterruption or threatened inter- neige , etc. Dans le cas d'une inruption of any such services, the terruption ou d'une menace d'inappropriate American authorities terruption de l'un quelconque de will consider the needs of the ces services, les autorités amériUnited Nations as being of equal caines compétentes considéreront

3430

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

importance with the similar needs les besoins de l'Organisation des

of essential agencies of the Govern- Nations Unies comme étant d'une

ment of the United States, and importance égale à ceux de même

will take steps accordingly, to nature des administrations essenensure that the work of the United tielles du Gouvernement des Etats-

Nations is not prejudiced .

Unis. En conséquence, elles pren-

dront les mesures appropriées pour

éviter que les travaux de l'Organisation des Nations Unies ne soient entravés .

(b) Special provisions with ref- b) Des dispositions spéciales reerence to maintenance of utilities latives à l'entretien des services

Post, p. 3436.

and underground construction are d'utilité publique et des travaux de

contained in Annex 2.

constructions souterraines sont

prévues à l'annexe 2.

SECTION 18

SECTION 18

triAcmenities of dis- t. The appropriate American au- Les autorités américaines comthorities shall take all reasonable pétentes prendront toutes les me-

steps to ensure that the amenities sures raisonnables pour empêcher of the headquarters district are not que l'usage qui pourrait être fait prejudiced and the purposes for des terrains avoisinant le district. which the district is required are administratif ne puisse porter atnot obstructed by any use made teinte aux agréments du district of the land in the vicinity of the et aux fins auxquelles il est desdistrict . The United Nations shall tiné. L'Organisation des Nations on its part take all reasonable steps Unies prendra , de son côté, toutes to ensure that the amenities of the les mesures raisonnables pour

land in the vicinity of the head- empêcher que l'usage qui pourrait quarters district are not prejudiced être fait par les Nations Unies des by any use made of the land in the terrains situés dans le district

headquarters district by the United administratif ne porte atteinte aux

Nations.

agréments des terrains situés dans

le voisinage du district administratif.

SECTION 19

SECTION 19

Nondiscrimination. It is agreed that no form of Il est entendu qu'aucune sorte

racial or religious discrimination de discrimination de race ou de

shall be permitted within the religion ne sera tolérée dans le

headquarters district.

district administratif.

ARTICLE VIII

ARTICLE VIII

Matters Relating to the Operation Questions relatives à l'application

of this Agreement

du présent accord

Supplemental agreements.

SECTION 20

SECTION 20

The Secretary-General and the Le Secrétaire général et les

appropriate American authorities autorités américaines compétentes shall settle by agreement the se mettront d'accord sur les voies channels through which they will par lesquelles se feront les com-

61 STAT.] UNITED NATIONS- HEADQUARTERS- June 26, 1947 Nov. 21, 1947

3431

communicate regarding the appli- munications relatives à l'applicacation of the provisions of this tion des dispositions du présent agreement and other questions accord et des autres questions inaffecting the headquarters dis- téressant le district administratif. trict, and may enter into such sup- Ils pourront conclure tout accord plemental agreements as may be additionnel qui se révélerait nénecessary to fulfill the purposes of cessaire pour réaliser les buts du this agreement. In making sup- présent accord . Lors de la négociaplemental agreements with the tion d'accords additionnels avec le Secretary-General , the United Secrétaire général, les Etats-Unis States shall consult with the ap- entreront en consultations avec les propriate state and local authori- autorités d'état et locales compéties. If the Secretary-General so tentes. Le Secrétaire d'Etat des requests, the Secretary of State of Etats-Unis désignera auprès du the United States shall appoint a Secrétaire général, si celui-ci en special representative for the pur- fait la demande, un représentant pose of liaison with the Secretary- spécial chargé d'assurer la liaison. General.

SECTION 21 (a) Any dispute between the
United Nations and the United

SECTION 21 a) Tout différend entre l'Orga-
nisation des Nations Unies et les

Reference of disputes for final decision.

States concerning the interpreta- Etats-Unis au sujet de l'interprétion or application of this agree- tation ou de l'application du pré-

ment or of any supplemental sent accord ou de tout accord addiagreement, which is not settled by tionnel sera, s'il n'est pas réglé par negotiation or other agreed mode voie de négociation ou par tout of settlement, shall be referred for autre mode de règlement agréé final decision to a tribunal of three par les parties , soumis aux fins de

arbitrators, one to be named by décision définitive à un tribunal the Secretary-General, one to be composé de trois arbitres, dont named by the Secretary of State of l'un sera désigné par le Secrétaire the United States, and the third to général, l'autre par le Secrétaire

be chosen by the two , or, if they d'Etat des Etats-Unis, et le troi-

should fail to agree upon a third, sième choisi par les deux autres,

then by the President of the Inter- ou , à défaut d'accord entre eux sur

national Court of Justice.

ce choix, par le Président de la

Cour internationale de justice. (b) The Secretary-General or the b) Le Secrétaire général ou les soRreyqoupiensiton.for advi-

United States may ask the General Etats-Unis pourront prier l'As-

Assembly to request of the Inter- semblée Générale de demander à national Court of Justice an ad- la Cour internationale de justice. visory opinion on any legal ques- un avis consultatif sur toute

tion arising in the course of such question juridique qui viendrait proceedings. Pending the receipt à être soulevée au cours de ladite

of the opinion of the Court, an procédure. En attendant l'avis de interim decision of the arbitral la Cour, les deux parties se contribunal shall be observed by formeront à une décision intéri-

both parties . Thereafter, the ar- maire du tribunal arbitral . Par la bitral tribunal shall render a final suite, celui-ci rendra une décision

3432

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

decision, having regard to the définitive en tenant compte de

opinion of the Court.

l'avis de la Cour.

ARTICLE IX

ARTICLE IX

Miscellaneous Provisions

Mesures diverses

SECTION 22

SECTION 22

Disposal of land in headquarters district.

(a) The United Nations shall a) L'Organisation des Nations

not dispose of all or any part of Unies ne pourra disposer, en

the land owned by it in the head- totalité ou en partie, du terrain quarters district without the con- dont elle est propriétaire dans le sent of the United States. If the district administratif, sans le conUnited States is unwilling to con- sentement des Etats-Unis . Si les sent to a disposition which the Etats-Unis refusent ce consenteUnited Nations wishes to make of ment, ils devront acheter ledit

all or any part of such land, the terrain à l'Organisation des NaUnited States shall buy the same tions Unies, à un prix qui sera from the United Nations at a déterminé conformément aux dis-

price to be determined as provided positions du paragraphe d ) de la in paragraph (d ) of this section . présente section.
(b) If the seat of the United b) Si le siège de l'Organisation Nations is removed from the des Nations Unies est transféré

headquarters district, all right, hors du district administratif, tous title and interest of the United les droits réels, titres de propriété, Nations in and to real property et autres intérêts portant sur la in the headquarters district or propriété du district administratif any part of it shall , on request of de l'Organisation seront, en totaeither the United Nations or the lité ou en partie, à la demande soit United States , be assigned and de l'Organisation des Nations conveyed to the United States. Unies, soit des Etats-Unis , cédés In the absence of such request, et transférés à ceux-ci. A défaut the same shall be assigned and de pareille demande, ces dits conveyed to the subdivision of a droits, titres et intérêts seront state in which it is located or, if transférés et cédés à la circonsuch subdivision shall not desire scription administrative d'état it, then to the state in which it dans laquelle les terrains sont is located. If none of the fore- situés, ou encore si cette circongoing desires the same, it may be scription administrative ne le

disposed of as provided in para- désire pas , à l'état dans lequel les

graph (a ) of this section .

terrains sont situés . Dans le cas

où aucune de ces parties ne

désirerait obtenir pareils cession

et transfert, lesdits droits, titres

et intérêts pourront être aliénés ,

conformément au paragraphe a)

Disposition of headquarters district by U. N.

de la présente section. (c) If the United Nations dis- c) Si l'Organisation des Naposes of all or any part of the tions Unies aliène tout ou partie headquarters district, the pro- du district administratif, les dis-

visions of other sections of this positions contenues dans les autres agreement which apply to the sections du présent accord qui

61 STAT.] UNITED NATIONS- HEADQUARTERS- June 26, 1947 Nov. 21 , 1947

3433

headquarters district shall imme- s'appliquent au district adminis-

diately cease to apply to the land tratif cesseront immédiatement

and buildings so disposed of.

de s'appliquer aux terrains et aux

bâtiments dont elle aura disposé.
Price for convey. (d) The price to be paid for d ) A défaut d'accord , le prix à ance.

any conveyance under this section payer pour tout transfert de pro-

shall, in default of agreement, be priété prévu à la présente section the then fair value of the land, consistera en la juste valeur du

buildings and installations, to be terrain, des bâtiments et installa-

determined under the procedure tions au moment du transfert,

provided in Section 21.

ladite valeur devant être détermi-

née conformément à la procédure

prévue à la section 21 .

SECTION 23

SECTION 23

The seat of the United Nations Le siège de l'Organisation des shall not be removed from the Nations Unies ne sera pas trans-

Removal of seat of U. N.

headquarters district unless the féré hors du district administratif,

United Nations should so decide. à moins que l'Organisation des Nations Unies n'en décide ainsi.

SECTION 24

SECTION 24

Termination of This agreement shall cease to Dans le cas où le siège de l'Or- agreement.

be in force if the seat of the United ganisation des Nations Unies serait Nations is removed from the terri- transféré hors du territoire des

tory of the United States, except Etats-Unis, le présent accord ces-

for such provisions as may be sera d'être en vigueur, exception

applicable in connection with the faite toutefois de celles de ses

orderly termination of the opera- dispositions qui seraient nécestions of the United Nations at its saires pour la terminaison ré-

seat in the United States and the gulière des activités de l'Orga-

disposition of its property therein. nisation des Nations Unies dans

SECTION 25

son siège des Etats-Unis et pour la disposition de celles de ses propriétés qui s'y trouvent. SECTION 25

Wherever this agreement im-
poses obligations on the appropriate American authorities, the Government of the United States

Le Gouvernement des Etats-
Unis assumera en dernier ressort la responsabilité de l'exécution par les autorités américaines compé-

Fulfillment of U. S. obligations.

shall have the ultimate responsi- tentes des obligations qui leur sont

bility for the fulfillment of such imposées par le présent accord.

obligations by the appropriate American authorities.

SECTION 26

SECTION 26

The provisions of this agreement shall be complementary to the provisions of the General Convention. In so far as any

Les dispositions du présent accord complètent celles de la Convention générale. Dans la mesure où une disposition du présent ac-

Complementary provisions .

provision of this agreement and cord et une disposition de la Conany provisions of the General vention générale ont trait à la

3434

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

Convention relate to the same même question, les deux disposi-

subject matter, the two provisions tions seront considérées autant

shall, wherever possible , be treated que possible, comme complémen-

as complementary, so that both taires, et s'appliqueront toutes

provisions shall be applicable and deux sans que l'une d'elles ne neither shall narrow the effect of puisse limiter les effets de l'autre.

the other ; but in any case of ab- Toutefois, en cas de contradiction

solute conflict, the provisions of absolue, les dispositions du présent

this agreement shall prevail .

accord prévaudront.

SECTION 27

SECTION 27

This agreement shall be con- Le présent accord sera interstrued in the light of its primary prété à la lumière de son but purpose to enable the United fondamental, qui est de permettre Nations at its headquarters in à l'Organisation des Nations Unies the United States, fully and ef- de pleinement et efficacement ficiently to discharge its respon- exercer ses fonctions et d'atteindre sibilities and fulfill its purposes. ses buts au siège de son activité
aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique .

SECTION 28

SECTION 28

Bringing of agreement into effect.
Post, p. 3437.

This agreement shall be brought Le présent accord entrera en into effect by an exchange of vigueur à la suite d'un échange de notes between the Secretary- notes entre le Secrétaire général,

General, duly authorized pursuant dûment autorisé en vertu d'une to a resolution of the General As- résolution de l'Assemblée Générale

sembly of the United Nations,['] de l'Organisation des Nations

and the appropriate executive of- Unies, et l'autorité compétente du

ficer of the United States, duly pouvoir exécutif des Etats-Unis ,

authorized pursuant to appropri- dûment autorisée en vertu d'une

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 756. ate action of the Congress .

mesure appropriée du Congrès .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the respec- EN FOI DE QUOI, les représen-

tive representatives have signed tants respectifs ont signé le présent

this Agreement and have affixed protocole et y ont apposé leurs

their seals hereto .

cachets .

Authentic languages.

DONE in duplicate, in the Eng- FAIT en double exemplaire, en

lish and French languages, both langue anglaise et en langue fran-

authentic, at Lake Success the çaise, les deux textes faisant égale-

twenty-sixth day of June 1947 . ment foi , à Lake Success , le vingt-

six juin 1947.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE :

G C MARSHALL

[SEAL]

Secretary of State Secrétaire d'Etat

FOR THE UNITED NATIONS : POUR L'ORGANISATION DES NATIONS UNIES :
TRYGVE LIE Secretary- General
Secrétaire général 1¹ [U.N. doc. A/P.V. 101 , Oct. 31 , 1947.]

[SEAL]

61 STAT.] UNITED NATIONS- HEADQUARTERS- June 26, 1947 Nov. 21, 1947

3435

ANNEX 1

ANNEXE 1

The area referred to in Section La zone mentionnée à la section

1 (a) (1 ) consists of (a) the prem- 1 a) 1 ) se compose: a) des lieux sis ises bounded on the East by the dans la Borough de Manhattan, westerly side of Franklin D. Roose- ville et Etat de New York, lesdits velt Drive, on the West by the lieux étant limités , à l'est par la easterly side of First Avenue, on limite ouest de Franklin D. Roosethe North by the southerly side of velt Drive , à l'ouest par la limite East Forty-Eighth Street, and on est de la Première Avenue, au nord the South by the northerly side of par la limite sud de la quaranteEast Forty-Second Street, all as huitième Rue est, et au sud par la proposed to be widened, in the limite nord de la quarante-deuxiBorough of Manhattan, City and ème Rue est, les limites desdites State of New York, and (b) an voies étant celles qui devront easement over Franklin D. Roose- résulter de leur élargissement tel velt Drive, above a lower limiting qu'actuellement proposé ; b) d'une plane to be fixed for the construc- servitude sur le Franklin D. Roosetion and maintenance of an es- velt Drive partant d'un niveau planade, together with the struc- inférieur au-dessus duquel sera tures thereon and foundations and construite une esplanade, ce niveau columns to support the same in devant être déterminé en vue de la locations below such limiting plane, construction et de l'entretien de the entire area to be more definite- l'esplanade susdite. Cette servily defined by supplemental agree- tude s'étendra à toutes superment between the United Nations structures de même qu'aux fondaand the United States of America. tions et colonnes qui supporteront

l'esplanade et qui seraient posées au-dessous du niveau inférieur à délimiter . La zône entière sera définie avec plus de précision par un accord additionnel entre l'Organisation des Nations Unies et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique.

Ante, p. 3416.

3436

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ANNEX 2

ANNEXE 2

Maintenance of Utilities and Underground Construction

Entretien des services d'utilité
publique et constructions souterraines

Section 1

Section 1

The Secretary-General agrees Le Secrétaire général convient

to provide passes to duly author- de fournir des laissez-passer aux

ized employees of The City of employés dûment autorisés de la

New York, the State of New York, ville de New York, de l'Etat de

or any of their agencies or sub- New York, ou de toute agence ou

divisions, for the purpose of en- circonscription de ladite ville ou abling them to inspect, repair, dudit Etat, en vue de permettre

maintain, reconstruct and relocate à ces employés d'inspecter, ré-

utilities, conduits, mains and sew- parer, entretenir, reconstruire les

ers within the headquarters dis- services d'utilité publique, canali-

trict.

sations , collecteurs et égoûts, et

de les déplacer, le tout à l'intérieur

du district administratif.

Section 2

Section 2

Underground constructions may La ville de New York ou l'Etat be undertaken by The City of de New York ou leurs agences ou New York, or the State of New circonscriptions ne pourront enYork, or any of their agencies or treprendre des constructions sousub-divisions, within the head- terraines à l'intérieur du district quarters district only after consul- administratif qu'après consultatation with the Secretary-General, tion avec le Secrétaire général, et and under conditions which shall de manière à ne pas troubler not disturb the carrying out of the l'accomplissement des fonctions functions of the United Nations . de l'Organisation des Nations
Unies.

June 26 , 1947 61 STAT. ] UNITED NATIONS- HEADQUARTERS-
Nov. 21, 1947

3437

The United States Representative to the United Nations to the Secretary-General of the United Nations

UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE TO THE UNITED NATIONS

EXCELLENCY :

NOVEMBER 21 , 1947

I have the honor to refer to Section 28 of the Agreement between the United Nations and the United States of America regarding the

Headquarters of the United Nations , signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, which provides for bringing that Agreement into effect by an exchange of notes . Reference is made also to the provisions of United States Public Law 357, 80th Congress, entitled "Joint Resolution Authorizing the President to bring into effect an agreement between the United States and the United Nations for the purpose of establish-

ing the permanent headquarters of the United Nations in the United States and authorizing the taking of measures necessary to facilitate

compliance with the provisions of such agreement, and for other purposes", which was approved by the President of the United States of America on August 4 , 1947 .

Pursuant to instructions from my Government , I have the honor to inform you that the Government of the United States of America is prepared to apply the above-mentioned Headquarters Agreement subject to the provisions of Public Law 357.
I have been instructed by my Government to propose that the present note and your note of this date be considered as bringing the Headquarters Agreement into effect on the date hereof.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

His Excellency TRYGVE LIE,

WARREN R. AUSTIN

UN-1478A

Secretary-General ofthe United Nations, Lake Success, New York.

Ante, p. 3434. 61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 756.

The Secretary-General of the United Nations to the United States Representative to the United Nations

CABLE ADDRESS : UNATIONS NEW YORK

TELEGRAMME : UNATIONS NEW-YORK

UNITED NATIONS

NATIONS UNIES

REFERENCE:

LAKE SUCCESS, NEW YORK FIELDSTONE 7-1100 21 NOVEMBER 1947

SIR,

I have the honour to refer to the Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 31 October 1947 , at its one hundred and first meeting , relative to the Agreement between the United States of America and the United Nations regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success on 26 June 1947.
95347-50- PT. IV- -7

Ante, p. 3416.

3438 Ante, p. 3434.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
By this Resolution the General Assembly, after having studied the report of its Sixth Committee and endorsed the opinions expressed therein , has approved the above-mentioned Agreement, which states and defines the mutual obligations of the United Nations and the United States in connection with the establishment of the permanent Headquarters of the United Nations in the United States. The Resolution, consequently, has authorized me to bring that Agreement into force in the manner provided in Section 28 of the Agreement .
Pursuant to the Resolution and in conformity with Section 28 of the Agreement , I have the honour to propose that the present note and your note of this day be considered as bringing the Headquarters Agreement into effect under date hereof.
I have the honour to be, Sir, Your obedient Servant,

The Honorable WARREN R. AUSTIN,

MeganeLin Trygve Lie
Secretary-General

Permanent Representative of the United States of America at the

Seat of the United Nations, New York.

61 STAT. ] UNITED NATIONS-HEADQUARTERS- DEC . 18, 1947

3439

Interim agreement between the United States of America and the United Nations respecting the headquarters of the United Nations . Signed at Lake Success, New York, December 18, 1947; entered into force December 18, 1947.

December 18, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1677]

INTERIM HEADQUARTERS AGREEMENT

THE UNITED NATIONS AND THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : Desiring to extend to the temporary headquarters of the United Nations such of those provisions of the Agreement between the United Nations and the United States of America Regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations signed at Lake Success June 26 , 1947 , as are appropriate, having regard for the needs of the United Nations at its temporary headquarters ; Have appointed as their representatives for this purpose :
The United Nations :

Ante, p. 3416.

Trygve Lie, Secretary- General, and

The United States of America :
Warren R. Austin , United States Representative to the United Nations,

Who, being duly authorized, have agreed as follows : ARTICLE I

This agreement shall be called the Interim Headquarters Agreement. As used in this agreement :

(a) The expression "temporary headquarters" means ( 1 ) the land "Temporary headquarters . "
and buildings occupied and used by the United Nations for its official

activities at Lake Success, Long Island , New York, and at Flushing

Meadows, New York, the precise limits of which are defined in the Annex to this agreement and (2 ) such other land and buildings occu-

Post, p. 3441.

pied and used by the United Nations as may be defined from time to time by agreement between the United Nations and the United States

of America after consultation with the appropriate state and local authorities.

(b) The expression "Headquarters Agreement" means the Agree- "Headquarters Agreement."
ment between the United Nations and the United States of America

Regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations signed at Lake Success on June 26, 1947, and brought into effect in accordance with its provisions by an exchange of notes dated November 21 , 1947.

Ante, p. 3416. Ante, p. 3437.

3440

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ARTICLE II

Necessary provisions of Headquarters The following provisions of the Headquarters Agreement, with the

Agreement .

exception noted in Article III of this agreement and subject to the

provisions of said article, having been found to be necessary and

appropriate to enable the United Nations to carry on its functions at the temporary headquarters, shall have full force and effect with respect to the temporary headquarters of the United Nations and the

trictH.e'adquarters dis- expression "headquarters district " as used in the Sections of the Headquarters Agreement incorporated herein by reference shall be deemed

to include the temporary headquarters of the United Nations until such time as the United Nations shall have ceased to use or occupy its

Ante, p. 3416 et seq.

temporary headquarters and this agreement shall be terminated :
Section 1 (except subsection a) Section 4 Section 7 Section 8 Section 9 Section 10 Section 11 Section 12 Section 13 Section 14 Section 15 Section 16 Section 17 Section 19
ARTICLE III

Passes. Taxes.

The United Nations agrees, in view of the fact that the premises occupied by it as the temporary headquarters are under lease from persons not parties to this agreement, that passes will be provided by the Secretary-General to such persons or their duly authorized agents for the purposes of enabling them to inspect, repair and maintain the said premises in accordance with the terms of the lease.
The United Nations further agrees that this Interim Agreement shall not affect any existing arrangements with respect to payment of taxes or payments in lieu of taxes on property under lease from persons not parties to this agreement or impair the power of any municipality to impose taxes on property so leased.

ARTICLE IV

Ante, p. 3430 et seq.

It is understood that Sections 20, 21 , 25 , 26 and 27 of the Headquarters Agreement shall be applicable to the operation and construction of this agreement.

ARTICLE V

Effective date; duration .

This agreement shall come into effect on the date of signature hereof.

It shall continue in force until the United Nations shall have ceased to

use or occupy the temporary headquarters.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the respective plenipotentiaries have signed this agreement.

61 STAT. ] UNITED NATIONS--HEADQUARTERS--DEC. 18, 1947
DONE in duplicate in the English language at Lake Success the eighteenth day of December 1947.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : WARREN R. AUSTIN
United States Representative to the United Nations
FOR THE UNITED NATIONS : TRYGVE LIE
Secretary-General
ANNEX [' ]
A. Description of Property at Lake Success Site. BEGINNING at the northwesterly corner of the property intended to
be described herein , said point being where the easterly line of Lakeville Road intersects the southerly line of Marcus Avenue ; thence running South 78 ° 1050 East and along the southerly line of Marcus Avenue 449.57 feet to the P.C. of a curve ; thence continuing easterly and along the southerly line of Marcus Avenue and on a curve the radius of which is 1757.85 feet a distance of 295.98 feet to the P.T. of said curve ; thence running South 68 °32 East and still along the southerly line of Marcus Avenue 740.99 feet to the P.C. of another curve ; thence continuing easterly and along the southerly line of Marcus Avenue and along a curve the radius of which is 1340.11 feet a distance of 421.50 feet to the P.T. of said curve ; thence running South 50°3044 East and along the southerly line of Marcus Avenue 95.78 feet to the P.C. of another curve ; thence continuing easterly and along the southerly line of Marcus Avenue and along a curve the radius of which is 755.14 feet a distance of 92.54 feet to the easterly line of the property intended to be described herein ; thence running South 30 °41'38 " West 68.41 feet ; thence running North 59° 1822 West 30.25 feet to the fence line ; thence running South 30°4138 West and along said fence line 150.21 feet to a stake ; thence running westerly and along said fence line a distance of 570 feet to a stake ; thence running North 73 ° 5524 West 194.48 feet to a stake ; thence running South 16 ° 0436  West 40.83 feet to a stake ; thence running North 73° 5524 West 34.07 feet to a stake ; thence South 16° 04'36" West and along the fence 34.21 feet to a chisel on the face of the north wall of the building ; thence North 73 ° 5524 West and along the face of the north wall of the building 3.75 feet ; thence South 16 ° 0436 West through the masonry wall 40.79 feet ; thence North 73 ° 5524 West and through the masonry wall 1.95 feet ; thence South 16 ° 0436 West and through the masonry wall 500.33 feet ; thence North
73°5524 West and through the masonry wall 23.83 feet ; thence
¹ [Attached to the Interim Headquarters Agreement is a large-scale map of the area described in the Annex to the Agreement. This map is in the archives of the Department of State and is available for reference. ]

3441

3442

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

South 16 ° 04'36" West and through the masonry wall 92.25 feet ; thence North 73 °55'24" West and through the masonry wall 5.72 feet ; thence South 16 ° 0436 West and through the masonry wall 8.21 feet to the face of the south wall of the building ; thence South 73 ° 5524 East and along the face of the south wall of the building 0.70 feet to a fence ; thence South 16 ° 04'36" West and along said fence 34.11 feet; thence North 73 ° 5524 West and still along said fence line 226.26 feet ; thence South 17°34'06" West and still along said fence line 30.71 feet ; thence North 73 ° 55'24" West, still along the fence line, 183.10 feet to the beginning of a curve ; thence running in a southwesterly direction and along said curve the radius of which is 20 feet a distance of 31.42 feet to the P.T. of said curve ; thence South 16 ° 0436 West, still along said fence line , 236.50 feet ; thence South 73 °5524 East still along said fence line 455.80 feet ; thence South 16 °04'36" West and still along said fence line 69.40 feet ; thence in a southwesterly direction and along said fence 750 feet to the northerly line of property belonging to the Manhasset-Lakeville Water District ; thence running North 41 ° 0556 West and along the northerly line of land of the Manhasset-Lakeville Water District 50 feet to the

northwesterly corner of said Water District property ; thence running South 48°5404 West and along the westerly line of property of the Manhasset-Lakeville Water District 128.05 feet to the northerly line of Lakeville Road ; thence running in a northwesterly direction and

along the northerly and easterly line of Lakeville Road on a curve the radius of which is 920.37 feet a distance of 292.73 feet to the P.T.

of said curve ; thence running North 19 ° 0816 West and along the

northeasterly line of Lakeville Road 106.45 feet to the P.C. of another curve ; thence running in a northerly direction and along the

easterly line of Lakeville Road and on a curve the radius of which

is 920.37 feet a distance of 352.77 feet to the P.T. of said curve ; thence

running North 2° 4924 East and along the easterly line of Lakeville Road 787.19 feet ; thence running North 7 ° 3624 East and still along

the easterly line of Lakeville Road 189.80 feet to the beginning of a curve ; thence running in a northerly direction and along the easterly line of Lakeville Road and on a curve the radius of which is 681.78

feet a distance of 321.93 feet to the P.T. of said curve ; thence running

North 34° 3939 East and along the easterly line of Lakeville Road

Compressor room area.

182.74 feet to the southerly line of Marcus Avenue at the point or place of beginning ; CONTAINING within said bounds 56.167 acres.
INCLUDING the area comprising the compressor room and the entrance thereto which is situated on the first floor and east of the east-

erly line described in the proposed lease between the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and the United Nations, which compressor room area is more particularly bounded and described as follows :

BEGINNING at a point on the face of the north wall of the building, which point is distant 12.75 feet easterly from the chisel mark on the building and the fence line as shown on the section of the diagram attached hereto and which is a part of the above -mentioned proposed lease ; thence running South 73 ° 5524 East and along the face of the

61 STAT. ] UNITED NATIONS-HEADQUARTERS-DEC. 18, 1947

3443

north wall of the building 21.95 feet ; thence South 16 °04'36" West and along the east wall of the compressor room 46.79 feet ; thence North 73°55'24" West 2.40 feet ; thence South 16 ° 04'36" West 6.67 feet ; thence North 73 ° 5524 West 38.00 feet ; thence North 16 ° 0436 East 6.67 feet ; thence South 73 ° 5524 East 14.35 feet ; thence North 16° 0436  East 36.39 feet ; thence South 73 ° 5524 East 4.10 feet ; thence North 16 ° 0436  East 10.40 feet to the point or place of

beginning.

The foregoing description of the property has been taken from the proposed lease between the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and the United Nations. The said description is subject to such modification as may be contained in the lease as executed between the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and the United Nations.

Modification of description.

B. Description of Property at Flushing Assembly Hall Site. BEGINNING at a point located 1470 feet northerly from the intersec-
tion of the center lines of Grand Central Parkway and Horace Harding Boulevard in the Borough of Queens, City of New York, 95 feet easterly of the center line of Grand Central Parkway said point being the existing chain link fence along the westerly curb line of the Intramural Drive in Flushing Meadow Park ; thence northerly along the chain link fence on the westerly side of the Intramural Drive for 1,370 feet to a point 55 feet south of the center line of the first pedestrian overpass across Grand Central Parkway south of the Long Island Railroad , northside Division ; thence easterly along the chain link fence 840 feet to the northeast corner of the property ; thence southerly 1,570 feet along the chain link fence on the westerly side of the pedestrian walk to the southeast corner of the property ; thence westerly 805 feet along the chain link fence on the northerly side of the pedestrian walk to the point or place of beginning, it being the intention to include all the property within the chain link fence enclosing the Assembly Hall of United Nations Site, formerly the New York City Building and adjacent area.

This description was obtained by the United Nations from the Parks Department of the City of New York.

Dec. 28, 29, 1945 61 STAT. ] FRANCE- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Mar. 27, 1946

3445

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting air transport services . Signed at Paris March 27, 1946; entered into force March 27, 1946. And a provisional arrangement effected by exchange of notes signed at Paris December 28 and 29, 1945.

Decemberan2d8, 29, 1945, March 27, 1946
[T. I. A. S. 1679]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC RELATING TO AIR SERVICES BETWEEN THEIR RESPECTIVE
TERRITORIES

ACCORD ENTRE LE GOUVERNEMENT PROVISOIRE DE LA REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE ET LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS - UNIS D'AMERIQUE RELATIF AUX SERVICES AERIENS
ENTRE LEURS TERRITOIRES RESPECTIFS .

3446

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC

considering
- that the possibilities of commercial aviation as a means of transport have greatly increased,
- that it is desirable to organize the international air services in a safe and orderly manner and to further as much as possible the development of international cooperation in this field, and
- that the Agreements hitherto contracted between the two governments with respect to the operation of air services should be replaced by a more general agreement in harmony with the new conditions of air transport,
have appointed their representatives, who , duly authorized, have agreed upon the following :

Rights. Post, p. 3456.
Post, p. 3452.

ARTICLE I
The Contracting Parties grant to each other the rights specified in the Annex hereto for the establishment of the international air services set forth in that Annex, or as amended in accordance with Article XII [ ] of the present Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the "agreed services") .

ARTICLE II

Inauguration of

services.

(a) The agreed services may be inaugurated immediately or at a

later date at the option of the Contracting Party to whom the rights

are granted, on condition that:

Post, p. 3450.

(1 ) the Contracting Party to whom the rights have been granted shall have designated an air carrier or carriers for the specified route or routes ,
(2) the Contracting Party which grants the rights shall have given the appropriate operating permission to the air carrier or carriers concerned pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Article which (subject to the provisions of Article VI) it shall do with the least possible delay .
(b) The designated air carrier or carriers may be required to satisfy the aeronautical authorities of the Contracting Party granting the rights that it or they is or are qualified to fulfill the conditions prescribed by or under the laws and regulations normally applied by those authorities to the operations of commercial air carriers .

¹ [By an exchange of notes dated Feb. 19 and Mar. 10, 1947, between the American Embassy at Paris and the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs it was agreed that "Article XII " should read "Article XIII ".]

61 STAT.] FRANCE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Dec. 28, 29, 1945 Mar. 27, 1946

3447

Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et le Gouvernement Provisoire de la République Française ,
considérant
- que les possibilités de l'Aviation Commerciale, en tant que mode de transport, se sont considérablement accrues , - qu'il convient d'organiser d'une manière sûre et ordonnée les services aériens internationaux , et de poursuivre dans la plus large mesure possible le développement de la coopération internationale dans ce domaine, et -que les accords antérieurement conclus entre les deux Gouvernements en matière d'exploitation de services aériens doivent être remplacés par un accord plus général adapté aux conditions nouvelles des transports aériens , ont désigné des Représentants à cet effet , lesquels , dûment autorisés, sont convenus des dispositions suivantes :
ARTICLE PREMIER
Les Parties Contractantes s'accordent l'une à l'autre les droits spécifiés à l'Annexe ci-jointe en vue de l'établissement des services aériens internationaux énumérés à cette Annexe, sans préjudice d'amendements qui seraient apportés à celle-ci conformément à l'Article XIII du présent Accord.
ARTICLE II
a) Lesdits services peuvent être inaugurés immédiatement ou à une date ultérieure, au choix de la Partie Contractante à laquelle les droits sont accordés , à condition que
I la Partie Contractante à laquelle les droits ont été accordés ait désigné une ou plusieurs entreprises de transport aérien pour exploiter la ou les routes spécifiées , et que 2º la Partie Contractante qui accorde les droits ait donné, dans les conditions prévues au paragraphe b . du présent Article , à l'entreprise ou aux entreprises intéressées l'autorisation d'exploitation requise, ce qu'elle devra faire dans le plus court délai possible, sous réserve des dispositions de l'article VI .
b) l'entreprise ou les entreprises ainsi désignées pourront être requises par les autorités aéronautiques de la Partie Contractante qui accorde les droits de satisfaire aux conditions prescrites, aux termes des lois et réglements normalement appliqués par ces mêmes autorités, en matière d'exploitation de transports aériens commerciaux.

3448 Charges, etc.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
ARTICLE III
(a) The charges which either Contracting Party may impose or permit to be imposed on the designated air carrier or carriers of the other Contracting Party for the use of airports and other facilities shall not be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft employed in similar international air services .
(b) Fuel, lubricating oils and spare parts introduced into, or taken on board aircraft in, the territory of one Contracting Party by, or on behalf of, any designated air carrier of the other Contracting Party and intended solely for use by the aircraft of such carrier shall be accorded, with respect to customs duties , inspection fees and other charges imposed by the former Contracting Party, treatment not less favorable than that granted to national air carriers engaged in international air services or such carriers of the most favored nation .
(c) Supplies of fuel, lubricating oils, spare parts , regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board aircraft of any designated air carrier of one Contracting Party shall be exempt in the territory of the other Contracting Party from customs duties, inspection fees or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used by such aircraft on flights within that territory.

ARTICLE IV

Certificates of air worthiness, etc.

Certificates of airworthiness, certificates of competency and licenses

issued or rendered valid by one Contracting Party and still in force

shall be recognised as valid by the other Contracting Party for the

purpose of operation of the agreed services . Each Contracting Party

reserves the right, however, to refuse to recognise for the purpose of

flight above its own territory, certificates of competency and licenses granted to its own nationals by another state.

ARTICLE V

Laws and regulations.

(a) The laws and regulations of one Contracting Party relating

to the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged

in international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of

such aircraft while within its territory, shall be applied to the air-

craft of the other Contracting Party, and shall be complied with by such aircraft upon entering or departing from or while within the terri-

tory of the first party.

(b) The laws and regulations of each Contracting Party as to the admission to, sojourn in and departure from its territory of passengers,

crew and cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry,

clearance, immigration , passports, customs and quarantine, shall be observed .

Dec. 28, 29, 1945 61 STAT.] FRANCE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Mar. 27, 1946
ARTICLE III
a) Les taxes imposées pour l'utilisation des aéroports et autres facilités à l'entreprise ou aux entreprises de transport aérien de l'une ou l'autre Partie Contractante ne seront pas plus élevées que celles qui seraient payées pour l'utilisation desdits aéroports et facilités par leurs aéronefs nationaux employés à des services internationaux similaires.
b) Les carburants, les huiles lubrifiantes et les pièces de rechange introduits ou pris à bord sur le territoire d'une Partie Contractante par tout entreprise de transport aérien désignée par l'autre Partie Contractante ou pour le compte d'une telle entreprise, et destinés uniquement à l'usage des appareils de cette entreprise , bénéficieront d'un traitement aussi favorable que le traitement appliqué aux entreprises nationales exploitant des services aériens internationaux ou à celles de la nation la plus favorisée en ce qui concerne l'imposition de droits de douane, de frais d'inspection ou autres droits et taxes nationaux .
c) Les carburants, les huiles lubrifiantes, les pièces de rechange, l'équipement normal et les provisions de bord demeurant à bord des aéronefs utilisés par tout entreprise désignée par une Partie Contractante, seront, sur le territoire de l'autre Partie Contractante, exempts de droits de douane, frais d'inspection ou autres droits et taxes similaires , même au cas où ces approvisionnements seraient employés ou consommés par ces aéronefs au cours de vols au-dessus dudit territoire.
ARTICLE IV
Les certificats de navigabilité, les brevets d'aptitude et les licences délivrés ou validés par l'une des Parties Contractantes et non périmés, seront reconnus valables par l'autre Partie Contractante, aux fins d'exploitation des routes et des services spécifiés à l'Annexe. Chaque Partie Contractante se réserve cependant le droit de ne pas reconnaître valables pour la circulation au-dessus de son propre territoire les brevets d'aptitude et licences délivrés à ses propres ressortissants par un autre Etat.
ARTICLE V
a) Les lois et réglements d'une Partie Contractante relatifs à l'entrée et à la sortie de son territoire des aéronefs employés à la navigation internationale, ou relatifs à l'exploitation et à la navigation desdits aéronefs durant leur présence dans les limites de son territoire, s'appliqueront aux aéronefs de l'autre Partie Contractante, lesquels devront s'y conformer à l'arrivée, au départ et durant leur présence dans les limites du territoire de la Partie Contractante mentionnée en premier lieu.
b) les lois et réglements d'une Partie Contractante relatifs à l'admission sur son territoire, au séjour et à la sortie de passagers , d'équipages ou de marchandises transportés par aéronefs tels que ceux régissant l'entrée , les formalités de congé, l'immigration , les passeports, les douanes et la quarantaine, seront également appliqués.

3449

3450

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

ARTICLE VI

Withholding or revocation of certificate

Each Contracting Party reserves the right to withhold or revoke

or permit.

a certificate or permit to an air carrier designated by the other Con-

tracting Party in the event that it is not satisfied that substantial

ownership and effective control of such carrier are vested in nationals

of either Contracting Party, or in case of failure by that carrier to

comply with the laws and regulations referred to in Article V hereof,

Post, p. 3456.

or otherwise to fulfill the conditions under which the rights are granted in accordance with this Agreement and its Annex.

Additional rights. Ante, p. 3446.

ARTICLE VII
(a) In addition to the rights mentioned in Article I of the present Agreement, each Contracting Party grants to all air carriers of the other Contracting Party for international air services (and for all operational flights incidental to such services) :

Consultation. Post, p. 3456.

(1) The right to fly across its territory without landing ; (2) The right to land in such territory for non-traffic purposes.
(b) In order to carry out the purposes of paragraph (a) above , each Contracting Party may designate the airways to be followed within its territory by any air carrier of the other Contracting Party, and the airports which any such services may use.
(c) The exercise of the rights specified in paragraph (a ) above is subject to the provisions of Articles III , IV, V and VI of this Agreement and the Articles which follow.
(d ) The rights granted under the present Article by the Government of the United States to French air carriers may be exercised at Kindley Field (Bermuda) provided the Government of the French Republic shall have obtained the necessary authorizations from the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland .
ARTICLE VIII
In a spirit of close collaboration, the aeronautical authorities of the two Contracting Parties will consult regularly with a view to assuring the observance of the principles and the implementation of the provisions outlined in the present Agreement and its Annex.

ARTICLE IX

"Territory."

For the purpose of the present Agreement and its Annex: (a) The term "territory" as applied to each Contracting Party shall be deemed to be the land areas and territorial waters adjacent thereto under the sovereignty, suzerainty, protection , mandate, or

trusteeship of such Contracting Party.

"Aeronautical au-

thorities."

(b) The term "aeronautical authorities " shall mean in the case of

France "le Secrétaire Général à l'Aviation Civile et Commerciale" and

in the case of the United States the Civil Aeronautics Board, and in

both cases any person or body authorized to perform the functions presently exercised by the above mentioned bodies.

Dec. 28, 29, 1945 61 STAT. ] FRANCE- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Mar. 27, 1946
ARTICLE VI
Chaque Partie Contractante se réserve le droit de refuser une autorisation d'exploitation à une entreprise désignée par l'autre Partie Contractante ou de révoquer une telle autorisation , lorsqu'elle n'a pas la preuve qu'une part importante de la propriété et le contrôle effectif de cette entreprise sont entre les mains de nationaux de l'une ou l'autre des Parties Contractantes ou lorsque cette entreprise de transport aérien ne se conforme pas aux lois et réglements visés à l'article V ou ne remplit pas les obligations que lui imposent le présent Accord et son Annexe .
ARTICLE VII
a) Outre les droits mentionnés à l'Article Premier du Présent Accord, chaque Partie Contractante accorde à toute entreprise de transport aérien ressortissant de l'autre Partie Contractante en vue de l'exploitation de services aériens internationaux ainsi que de la réalisation de vols de servitude afférents à cette exploitation:
I / le droit de traverser son territoire sans atterir ; 2º/ le droit d'atterrir sur son territoire pour raisons non commerciales.
b) Pour l'application du paragraphe a) ci-dessus, chaque Partie Contractante pourra désigner les routes à suivre sur son territoire par les entreprises ressortissant de l'autre Partie Contractante, ainsi que les aéroports pouvant être utilisés .
c) L'exercice des droits spécifiés au paragraphe a) ci-dessus sera soumis aux dispositions des Articles III, IV, V & VI du présent Accord, ainsi qu'aux Articles suivants. (d) Les droits accordés en vertu du présent Article par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis aux entreprises françaises de transport aérien pourront être exercés à Kindley Field (Bermudes) , dans la mesure où le Gouvernement français aura obtenu du Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord les autorisations nécessaires.
ARTICLE VIII
Dans un esprit d'étroite collaboration , les autorités aéronautiques des deux Parties Contractantes se consulteront régulièrement en vue de s'assurer de l'application des principes définis au présent Accord et à son Annexe et de leur exécution satisfaisante.
ARTICLE IX
Pour l'application du présent Accord et de son Annexe, (a) le mot "territoire " s'entendra des régions terrestres et des eaux territoriales y adjacentes sur lesquelles l'une ou l'autre des Parties Contractantes exerce sa souveraineté, sa suzeraineté, son protectorat, un mandat ou une tutelle ; (b) l'expression "autorités aéronautiques " s'entendra , en ce qui concerne les Etats-Unis, du "Civil Aeronautics Board", et, en ce qui concerne la France, du Secrétariat Général à l'Aviation Civile et Commerciale ou , dans les deux cas, de toute personne ou de tout organisme qui seraient habilités à assumer les fonctions actuellement exercées par les organismes précités .

3451

3452

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

"International air services."

(c) The term "international air services" shall have the meaning

specified in Article 96 of the Convention on International Civil

126017. Stat., Pt. 2, p. Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944.

ARTICLE X

Disputes. Post, p. 3456.
59 Stat. 1521.

Except as otherwise provided in this agreement or its Annex, any dispute between the Contracting Parties relating to the interpretation or application of this Agreement or its Annex which cannot be settled through consultation , shall be referred for an advisory report to the Interim Council of the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization, in accordance with the provisions of Article III, Section 6 (8) of the Interim Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944, or its successor.

53 Stat. 2422. Post, p. 3474.
Registration. 59 Stat. 1516. Entry into force. Post, p. 3456. Amendment, etc.

ARTICLE XI
The present Agreement supersedes the Air Transport Agreement concluded between the two Contracting Parties by an exchange of notes signed July 15, 1939 , as well as the Provisional Arrangement of December 28 ans 29, 1945.
The present Agreement shall in no way affect the Agreement concluded in Noumea on December 22 , 1938 between the Governor of New Caledonia and a United States air carrier, or any amendments thereof.
ARTICLE XII
This Agreement and all relative contracts shall be registered with the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization set up by the Interim Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago December 7 , 1944, or its successor.
ARTICLE XIII
(a) This Agreement, including the provisions of the Annex thereof will come into force on the day it is signed .
(b) Either Contracting Party may at any time request consultation with the other with a wiew to initiating any amendments of this Agreement or its Annex which may be desirable in the light of experience. If a multilateral air convention enters into force in relation to both Contracting Parties, such consultation shall take place with a view to amending the present Agreement or its Annex so as to conform to the provisions of such a convention.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or its Annex, if either of the Contracting Parties considers it desirable to modify the terms of the Annex to this Agreement it may request consultation to begin within a period of sixty days from the date of the request . Any modification in the Annex agreed to by said aeronautical authorities shall come into effect when it has been confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes.

Dec. 28, 29, 1945 61 STAT. ] FRANCE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Mar. 27, 1946

(c) l'expression "service aérien international" s'entendra dans le sens défini par l'article 96 de la Convention sur l'Aviation Civile Internationale signée à Chicago le 7 Décembre 1944 .
ARTICLE X
Sous réserve d'autres dispositions du présent Accord ou de son Annexe, tout différend entre les Parties Contractantes relatif à l'interprétation ou à l'application du présent Accord ou de son Annexe qui ne pourrait être réglé par la voie de négociations directes sera soumis pour avis consultatif au Conseil Intérimaire de l'Organisation Provisoire de l'Aviation Civile Internationale (conformément aux dispositions de l'article III , Section 6- (8 ) de l'Accord Intérimaire sur l'Aviation Civile Internationale signé à Chicago le 7 Décembre 1944) , ou à l'organisme appelé à lui succéder.

ARTICLE XI

Le présent Accord se substitue à l'Arrangement pour le Fonctionnement des Services de Transports Aériens conclu entre les deux Gouvernements par un échange de lettres en date du 15 Juillet 1939 ainsi

qu'à l'Accord provisoire des 28 et 29 Décembre 1945 . Il n'affecte en rien l'Accord conclu à Nouméa le 22 Décembre

1939 [ 1] entre le Gouverneur de la Nouvelle-Calédonie et une entreprise

américaine de transport aérien, non plus que les amendements qui y

ont été apportés.

ARTICLE XII

Le présent accord et tous les contrats y relatifs seront enregistrés àl'Organisation Provisoire de l'Aviation Civile Internationale instituée par l'Accord Intérimaire sur l'Aviation Civile Internationale, signé le 7 Décembre 1944 à Chicago , ou à l'organisme appelé à lui succéder.

ARTICLE XIII

a) Le présent Accord et son Annexe entreront en vigueur à la date de la signature dudit Accord .
b) Chacune des Parties Contractantes peut à tout moment demander à se consulter avec l'autre en vue d'apporter au présent Accord ou à son Annexe tout amendement qui , à l'expérience , paraitrait désirable. Si une convention aéronautique multilatérale entre en vigueur entre les deux Parties Contractantes , une telle consultation sera de droit, à l'effet de mettre les clauses du présent Accord ou de son Annexe en concordance avec les dispositions de ladite convention.
c) Sous réserve d'autres dispositions du présent Accord ou de son Annexe, si l'une des Parties Contractantes ne souhaite modifier les termes que de l'Annexe au présent Accord , elle peut demander que la consultation ait lieu entre les autorités aéronautiques des deux Parties Contractantes, cette consultation devant commencer dans un délai de soixante jours à compter de la date de la demande . Toute modification à l'Annexe convenue entre lesdites autorités entrera en vigueur dès qu'elle aura été confirmée par un échange de notes diplomatiques.

¹ [By an exchange of notes dated Feb. 19 and Mar. 10, 1947, between the American Embassy at Paris and the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs it was agreed that "22 Décembre 1939" should read "22 Décembre 1938."]
95347°-50-PT. IV- 8

3453

3454

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Notice of termina-

tion.

(d) When the procedure for a consultation provided for in para-

graph (b) of the present Article has been initiated , either Contracting Party may at any time give notice to the other of its desire to ter-

minate this Agreement. Such notice shall be simultaneously com-

municated to the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation, or its successor .

This Agreement shall terminate one year after the date of receipt

of the notice to terminate by the other Contracting Party unless the

notice is withdrawn by agreement before the expiration of this period .

In the absence of acknowledgment of receipt by the other Contracting

Party, notice shall be deemed to have been received fourteen days

after the receipt of the notice by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or its successor.

Authentic lan. guages .

DONE at Paris

1946 , [' ] in duplicate in the English

and French languages , each of which shall be of equal authenticity.

For the Government of the United States of America
JEFFERSON CAFFERY L. WELCH POGUE GEORGE P. BAKER

For the Provisional Government of the French Republic JULES MOCH G BIDAULT

¹ [By an exchange of notes dated Feb. 19 and Mar. 10, 1947, between the American Embassy at Paris and the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs it was agreed that the date of signature was omitted inadvertently and that this passage should read "DONE at Paris March 27, 1946 ,".]

61 STAT.] FRANCE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Dec. 28, 29, 1945 Mar. 27, 1946
d) Une fois engagée la procédure de consultation prévue au paragraphe b) du présent Article, chaque Partie Contractante pourra à tout moment notifier à l'autre son désir de mettre fin au présent Accord . Une telle notification devra être faite simultanément à l'Organisation Provisoire de l'Aviation Civile Internationale ou à l'organisme appelé à lui succéder.
Le présent Accord prendra fin une année après le jour de réception de la notification par l'autre Partie Contractante, à moins que ladite notification soit retirée d'un commun accord avant l'expiration de cette période . Au cas où la Partie Contractante qui recevrait une telle notification n'en accuserait pas réception , la notification sera tenue pour reçue quatorze jours après sa réception par l'Organisation Provisoire de l'Aviation Civile Internationale ou l'organisme qui lui aurait succédé.
Fait à Paris , le Mars 1946 , [ '] en double exemplaire, dans les langue anglaise et française, l'une et l'autre faisant également foi./.

Pour le Gouvernement des EtatsUnis d'Amérique
JEFFERSON CAFFERY L. WELCH POGUE GEORGE P. BAKER

Pour le Gouvernement Provisoire de la République Française
JULES MOCH G BIDAULT

[By an exchange of notes dated Feb. 19 and Mar. 10, 1947, between the American Embassy at Paris and the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs it was agreed that the date of signature was omitted inadvertently and that this passage should read "Fait à Paris, le 27 Mars 1946,".]

3455

3456 Routes. Post, p. 3466.
Post, p. 3466.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. ANNEX
SECTION I
The Government of the United States of America grants to the Government of the French Republic the right to conduct air transport services by one or more air carriers of French nationality designated by the latter country on the routes , specified in Schedule I attached , which transit or serve commercially the territory of the United States of America .
SECTION II
The Government of the French Republic grants to the Government of the United States of America the right to conduct air transport services by one or more air carriers of United States nationality designated by the latter country on the routes , specified in Schedule II attached, which transit or serve commercially French territory.

SECTION III

Rights of transit

and stop.

One or more air carriers designated by each of the Contracting

Parties under the conditions provided in this Agreement will enjoy,

in the territory of the other Contracting Party, rights of transit, of

stops for non-traffic purposes and of commercial entry and departure

for international traffic in passengers , cargo and mail at the points

enumarated and on each of the routes specified in the schedules

attached at all airports open to international traffic .

SECTION IV

It is agreed between the Contraction Parties :

Encouragement of air travel.

(a) That the two governments desire to foster and encourage the

widest possible distribution of the benefits of air travel for the general

good of mankind at the cheapest rates consistent with sound economic

principles ; and to stimulate international air travel as a means of

promoting friendly understanding and gool will among peoples ans insuring as well the many indirect benefits of this new form of transportation to the common welfare of both countries.

(b) That in the operation by the air carriers of either Contracting

Party of trunk services described in the present Annex, the interests.

of the air carriers of the other country shall, however, be taken into

consideration so as not to effect unduly the services which the latter

provide on all or part of the same route.

Capacity.

(c) That the air transport services offered by the carriers of both countries should bear a close relationship to the requirements of the public for such services.
(d) That the services provided by a designated air carrier under this

Agreement and its Annex shall retain as their primary objective the

provision of capacity adequate to the traffic demands between the country of which such air carrier is a national and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic ; and

Dec. 28, 29, 1945 61 STAT.] FRANCE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Mar. 27, 1946
ANNEXE.
SECTION I
Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique accorde au Gouvernement de la République Française le droit de faire assurer par une ou plusieurs entreprises françaises de transport aérien désignées par lui, des services aériens sur les lignes mentionnées au tableau I ci-annexé qui traversent ou desservent le territoire des Etats-Unis d'Amérique.
SECTION II.-
Le Gouvernement de la République Française accorde au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique le droit de faire assurer par une ou plusieurs entreprises de transport aérien des Etats-Unis désignées par lui , des services aériens sur les lignes mentionnées au tableau II ciannexé qui traversent ou desservent le territoire français.
SECTION III.-
L'entreprise où les entreprises de transport aérien désignées par chacune des Parties Contractantes dans les conditions fixées à l'Accord jouiront dans le territoire de l'autre Partie Contractante, aux points énumérés et sur chaque itinéraire décrit aux tableaux ci-annexés , du droit de transit, du droit d'escales pour raisons non commerciales et du droit de débarquer et d'embarquer en trafic international des passagers , du courrier et des marchandises sur tout aéroport ouvert au trafic international.
SECTION IV.-
Il est entendu entre les Parties Contractantes :
a) que les deux Gouvernements désirent provoquer et encourager la plus large distribution possible des avantages procurés par les voyages aériens pour le bien général de l'humanité, aux plus bas tarifs compatibles avec de sains principes économiques ; et stimuler les voyages aériens internationaux comme moyen de promouvoir une entente amicale et une bonne volonté commune entre les peuples , et assurer en même temps les nombreux bienfaits indirects de ce nouveau mode de transport pour le bien-être commun des deux pays ;
b) que, dans l'exploitation par les entreprise de chacun des deux pays des services long-courrier mentionnés à la présente Annexe , les intérêts des entreprises de l'autre pays seront toutefois pris en considération , afin que ne soient pas indûment affectés les services que ces dernières assureraient sur tout ou partie des mêmes parcours ;
c) que les services assurés par les entreprises des deux pays devront correspondre aux besoins du public en matière de transport aérien ;
d) que lesdits services long-courrier auront pour objet essentiel d'offrir une capacité correspondant à la demande de trafic entre le pays dont ressortit l'entreprise et le pays desservi en dernier lieu ; et

3457

3458

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Right to embark, -

etc.

that the right of the air carriers of either country to embark and to

disembark at points in the territory of the other country international

traffic destined for or coming from third countries at a point or points

specified in the Schedules attached , shall be applied in accordance with

the general principles or orderly development to which both govern-

ments subscribe and shall be subject to the general principle that capac-

ity shall be related .

Rates.

(I) to traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination ,
(2) to the requirements of through airline operation , and (3) to the traffic requirements of the area through which the
airline passes after taking account of local and regional services .
SECTION V
(a) The determination of rates in accordance with the following paragraphs shall be made at reasonable levels , due regard being paid to all relevant factors, such as cost of operation, reasonable profit, and the rates charged by any other carriers, as well as the characteristics of each service .

(b) The rates to be charged by the air carriers of either Contracting Party between the points in the territoty of the United States and points in French territory referred to in this Annex shall, consistent with the provisions of the present Agreement and its Annex , be subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of the Contracting Parties , who shall act in accordance with their obligations under the present Annex, within the limits of their legal powers .

IATA.

(c ) The Civil Aeronautics Board of the United States having approved the traffic conference machinery of the International Air Transport Association (Hereinafter called "IATA" ) , for a period of one year beginning in February 1946 , any rate agreements concluded through this machinery during this period and involving United States air carriers will be subject to approval by the Board.

Filing of proposed (d) Any rate proposed by the air carrier or carriers of either rates.
Contracting Party shall be filed with the aeronautical authorities of
both Contracting Parties at least thirty days before the proposed date of introduction ; provided that this period of thirty days may be reduced in particular cases if so agreed by the aeronautical authorities of both Contracting Parties .

(e) The Contracting Parties agree that the procedure described in paragraphs (f), (g) and (h) of this Section shall apply
(I) if during the period of the Civil Aeronautics Board's approval of the IATA traffic conference machinery, either any specific rate agreement is not approved within a reasonable time by either Contracting Party or a conference of IATA is unable to agree on a rate, or

Dec. 28, 29, 1945 61 STAT. ] FRANCE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Mar. 27, 1946
- que le droit pour les entreprises de chacun des deux pays d'embarquer et de débarquer sur le territoire de l'autre pays, aux points et sur les itinéraires spécifiés aux tableaux ci-annexés , du trafic international à destination ou en provenance de pays tiers sera exercé conformément aux principes généraux de développement ordonné affirmés par les deux Gouvernements , et dans des conditions telles que la capacité soit adaptée :
1 ) A la demande de trafic entre le pays d'origine et les pays de destination ;
2 ) Aux exigences de l'exploitation des services long-courrier ; et 3) A la demande de trafic dans les régions traversées, compte tenu
des services locaux et régionaux.
SECTION V
a) La fixation des tarifs , conformément à la procédure ci-dessous définie , devra être faite à des taux raisonnables, compte tenu de tous les éléments d'appréciation , et en particulier des frais de l'exploitation , de la réalisation d'un bénéfice normal , des tarifs pratiqués par les autres entreprises, ainsi que des caractéristiques présentées par chaque service.
b) Les tarifs à appliquer par les entreprises de chacune des Parties Contractantes pour les parcours prévus aux tableaux ci-annexés entre les territoires des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et les territoires français devront être soumis conformément aux dispositions du présent Accord et de son Annexe à l'approbation des autorités aéronautiques de chacune des Parties Contractantes, lesquelles agiront selon les obligations résultant de la présente Annexe, dans les limites de leurs pouvoirs légaux.
c) Le " Civil Aéronautics Board " des Etats-Unis ayant approuvé pour la période d'une année commençant en Février 1946 la procédure des conférences de trafic de l'Association Internationale des Transports Aériens (ci-après dénommée I. A. T. A. ) , tous accords de tarifs conclus selon cette procédure pendant ladite période et intéressant des entreprises des Etats-Unis seront soumis à l'approbation dudit "Civil Aéronautics Board" .
d) Tout tarif proposé par l'entreprise ou les entreprises de chacune des Parties Contractantes devra être soumis aux autorités aéronautiques des deux Parties Contractantes trente jours au moins avant la date prévue pour sa mise en application . Cette période de trente jours pourra être réduite dans des cas particuliers si les autorités aéronautiques des deux Parties Contractantes en conviennent d'un commun accord .
e) Les Parties Contractantes conviennent que la procédure prévue aux paragraphes f, g, et h de la présente section sera applicable:
1) lorsque, pendant la période durant laquelle le "Civil Aéronautics Board" approuve la procédure des conférences de trafic de l'I.A.T.A. , un accord de tarifs donné n'est pas approuvé dans un délai raisonnable par l'une ou l'autre des Parties Contractantes , ou bien lorsqu'une conférence de l'I.A.T.A. n'a pu établir un tarif, ou

3459

3460

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
(2) at any time no IATA machinery is applicable , or (3 ) if either Contracting Party ay any time withdraws or fails
to renew its approval of that part of the IATA traffic conference machinery relevant to this Section.

Prevention ofunfair

oruneconomic rates.

(f) In the event that power is conferred by law upon the aero-

nautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic

rates for the transport of persons and property by air on international

services and to suspend proposed rates in a manner comparable to that in which the Civil Aeronautics Board at present is empowered to

act with recpect to such rates for the transport of persons and property

by air within the United States, each of the Contracting Parties shall thereafter exercise its authority in such amnner as to prevent any rate or rates proposed by one of its carriers for services from the

territory of one Contracting Party to a point or points in the territory

of the other Contracting Party from becoming effective, if in the

judgment of the aeronautical authorites of the Contracting Party

Notice of dissatisfaction with proposed rate.

whose air carrier or carriers is or are proposing such rate, that rate is unfair or uneconomic .
If one of the Contracting Parties on receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph (d) above is dissatisfied with the rate pro-

posed by the air carrier or carriers of the other Contracting Party,

it shall so notify the other Contracting Party prior to the expiry of the first fifteen of the thirty days referred to , and the Contracting Parties shall endeavour to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.

In the event that such agreement is reached , each Contracting

Rate effective provisionally.

Party will exercise its statutory powers to give effect to such agreement. If agreement has not been reached at the end of the thirty day
period referred to in paragraph (d ) above, the proposed rate may,

unless the aeronautical authorities of the country of the air carrier

concerned see fit to suspend its application , go into effect provisionally pending the settlement of any dispute in accordance with the procedure outlined in paragraph (h) below.

(g) Prior to the time when such power may be conferred by law upon the aeronautical authorities of the United States, if one of the

Contracting Parties is dissatisfied , with any rate proposed by the air carrier or carriers of either Contracting Party for services from the territory of one Contracting Party to a point or points in the territory of the other Contracting Party, it shall so notify the other prior to

the expiry of the first fifteen of the thirty day period referred to in paragraph (d) above, and the Contracting Parties shall endeavour to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.

In the event that such agreement is reached each Contracting Party will use its best efforts to cause such agreed rate to be put into effect by its air carrier or carriers .

Dec. 28, 29, 1945 61 STAT. ] FRANCE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Mar. 27 , 1946
2) lorsque, à toute époque, aucune procédure de l'I.A.T.A. n'est applicable, ou
3) lorsque, à toute époque, l'une ou l'autre des Parties Contractantes retire ou s'abstient de renouveler son approbation à la partie de la procédure des conférences de trafic de l'I.A.T.A. concernant la présente section.
f) Si les autorités aéronautiques des Etats-Unis reçoivent le pouvoir légal de fixer des tarifs justes et économiques pour le transport aérien international des personnes et des messageries , et de suspendre des tarifs proposés , comme le "Civil Aéronautics Board" est actuellement habilité à le faire en ce qui concerne de tels tarifs à l'intérieur des Etats-Unis, chacune des deux Parties Contractantes exercera ultérieurement son autorité de manière à empêcher d'entrer en application tout tarif proposé par l'une de ses entreprises pour les services reliant le territoire de l'une des Parties Contractantes à celui de l'autre , si , de l'avis des Autorités aéronautiques de la Partie Contractante dont l'entreprise propose un tel tarif, ledit tarif n'est pas juste ou économique.
Si l'une des Parties Contractantes, après réception de la notification prévue au paragraphe d ) ci-dessus , n'approuve pas le tarif proposé par une entreprise de l'autre Partie Contractante, elle en avisera cette dernière Partie Contractante avant l'expiration de la moitié du délai de trente jours prévu , et les Parties Contractantes s'efforceront d'aboutir à un accord sur un tarif convenable.
Si un tel accord est obtenu, chaque Partie Contractante exercera ses pouvoirs légaux en vue d'en assurer l'application.
Si un accord n'a pas pu être obtenu à l'expiration de la période de trente jours prévue au paragraphe d ) ci-dessus , le tarif proposé peut être mis en application à titre provisoire en attendant le réglement du différend conformément à la procédure définie au paragraphe h) cidessous, à moins que les autorités aéronautiques du pays de l'entreprise intéressée estiment devoir suspendre cette entrée en application.
g) Aussi longtemps que les autorités aéronautiques des Etats -Unis ne disposeront pas de tels pouvoirs légaux, si l'une des Parties Contractantes n'approuve pas un tarif proposé par une entreprise de l'une ou l'autre des Parties Contractantes pour des services visés au paragraphe b) reliant le territoire de l'une des Parties Contractantes à celui de l'autre , ladite Partie Contractante en avisera l'autre avant l'expiration de la moitié du délai de trente jours prévu au paragraphe d) ci-dessus, et les Parties Contractantes s'efforceront d'aboutir à un accord sur un tarif convenable.
Si un tel accord est obtenu chaque Partie Contractante s'emploiera de son mieux à faire en sorte que le tarif convenu soit mis en application par son entreprise ou ses entreprises .

3461

3462

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Advisory report.

It is recognised that if no such agreement can be reached prior to the expiry of such thirty days, the Contracting Party raising the objection to the rate may take such steps as it may consider necessary to prevent the inauguration or continuation of the service in question at the rate complained of.
(h) When in any case under paragraph (f) and (g) above the aeronautical authorities of the two Contracting Parties cannot agree within a reasonable time upon the appropriate rate after consultation initiated by the complaint of one Contracting Party concerning the proposed rate or an existing rate of the air carrier or carriers of the other Contracting Party, upon the request of either, both Contracting Parties shall submit the question to the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or to its successor for an advisory report, and each Party will use its best efforts under the powers available to it to put the opinion [ '] expressed in such report .

SECTION VI

"Transshipment." Ante, p. 3456.

(a) For the purpose of the present Section, the term "transshipment" shall mean the transportation by the same carrier of traffic beyond a certain point on a given route by different aircraft from those employed on the earlier stages of the same route .
(b) Transshipment when justified by economy of operation will be permitted at all points mentioned in the attached Schedules in territory of the two Contracting Parties .
(c) However, no transshipments will be made in the territory of either Contracting Party which would alter the long range characteristics of the operation or which would be inconsistent with the standards set forth in this Agreement and its Annex and particularly Section IV of this Annex .

SECTION VII

Changes in routes. Changes made by either Contracting Party in the routes described

Post, p. 3466.

in the Schedules attached except those which change the points

served by these airlines in the territory of the other Contracting

Party shall not be considered as modifications of the Annex . The aeronautical authorities of either Contracting Party may therefore

proceed unilaterally to make such changes, provided, however , that notice of any change is given without delay to the aeronautical

authorities of the other Contracting Party.

1 [By an exchange of notes dated Feb. 19 and Mar. 10, 1947, between the American Embassy at Paris and the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs it was agreed that the words "into effect" were omitted inadvertently and that "put the opinion" should read "put into effect the opinion" .]

Dec. 28, 29, 1945 61 STAT. ] FRANCE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Mar. 27, 1946
Il est entendu que si un tel accord ne peut être obtenu avant l'expiration desdits trente jours, la Partie Contractante qui élève des objections au tarif pourra prendre telle mesure qu'elle estimera nécessaire en vue d'empêcher l'inauguration ou le maintien du service en question au tarif discuté.
h) Au cas où la procédure de consultation définie aux paragraphes f) et g) ci-dessus n'aboutirait pas dans un délai raisonnable à un accord entre les autorités aéronautiques des des deux Parties Contractantes sur un tarif convenable, le différend serait , sur la demande de l'une ou l'autre des Parties Contractantes , porté pour avis consultatif devant l'Organisation Provisoire de l'Aviation Civile Internationale ou devant l'Organisme appelé à lui succéder, et chacune des Parties Contractantes s'emploiera de son mieux, dans les limites des pouvoirs dont elle dispose, pour donner suite à l'opinion exprimée par l'Organisme International .
SECTION VI.-
a) Au sens de la présente Section l'expression "rupture de charge" à une escale donnée signifie qu'au-delà de ce point le trafic sur la ligne considérée est assuré par la même entreprise avec un appareil différent de celui qui a été utilisé sur la même ligne avant ladite escale.
b) Toute rupture de charge justifiée par des raisons d'économie d'exploitation sera admise en tout point du territoire des deux Parties Contractantes mentionné aux tableaux ci-annexés .
c) Toutefois aucune rupture de charge ne pourra intervenir sur le territoire de l'une ou l'autre des Parties Contractantes dans les cas où elle modifierait les caractéristiques de l'exploitation d'un service long-courrier, ou serait incompatible avec les principes énoncés dans le présent Accord et son Annexe et particulièrement la Section IV de ladite Annexe.
SECTION VII.-
Toute modification des lignes aériennes mentionnées aux tableaux ci-annexés , qui affecterait le tracé de ces lignes sur des territoires d'Etat tiers autres que ceux des Parties Contractantes , ne sera pas considérée comme une modification à l'Annexe . Les autorités aéronautiques de chaque Partie Contractante pourront en conqéquence procéder unilatéralement à une telle modification sous réserve toutefois de sa notification sans délai aux autorités aéronautiques de l'autre Partie Contractante.

3463

3464

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Ante, p. 3456,

If such other aeronautical authorities find that, having regard to the principles set forth in Section IV of the present Annex, interests of their air carrier or carriers are prejudiced by the carriage by the air carrier or carriers of the first Contracting Party of traffic between the territory of the second Contracting Party and the new point in the territory of a third country, the authorities of the two Contracting Parties shall consult with a view to arriving at a satisfactory agreement.

Exchange of infor mation.

SECTION VIII

After the present Agreement comes into force, the aeronautical

authorities of both Contracting Parties will exchange information as promptly as possible concerning the authorizations extended to their

respective designated air carriers to render service to , through and

from the territory of the other Contracting Party. This will include copies of current certificates and authorizations for service on the

routes which are the subject of this Agreement and, for the future,

such new authorizations as may be issued together with amendments,

exemption orders and authorized service patterns. GB JM

JC LWP

G. P. B.

Dec. 28, 29, 1945 61 STAT. ] FRANCE- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Mar. 27, 1946
Si ces dernières estiment, eu égard aux principes énoncés à la Section IV de la présente Annexe, que les intérêts de leurs entreprises nationales sont affectés par le fait qu'un trafic est assuré entre leur propre territoire et la nouvelle escale en pays tiers par les entreprises de l'autre pays , elles se concerteront avec les autorités aéronautiques de l'autre Partie Contractante afin de parvenir à un accord satisfaisant.

SECTION VIII.-
A partir de l'entrée en vigueur du présent Accord, les autorités aéronautiques des deux Parties Contractantes devront se communiquer aussi rapidement que possible les informations concernant les autorisations données à leur ou leurs propres entreprises désignées pour exploiter les lignes mentionnées aux tableaux ci-annexés ou des fractions desdites lignes . Ces informations comporteront notamment copie des autorisations accordées , de leurs modifications éventuelles ainsi que tous documents annexes .

JM

GB

JC LWP G. P. B.

3465

3466

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT. SCHEDULE I
ROUTES TO BE SERVED BY THE AIR CARRIERS OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC
(Points on any of the routes may, at the option of the air carrier, be omitted on any or all flights .)

1. France via intermediate points over the North Atlantic to Boston , New York and Washington , and also the site of the United Nations Organization ; in both directions.

2. France via intermediate points over the North Atlantic and Montreal to Chicago ; in both directions .

3. France via intermediate points over the North Atlantic to New York and beyond to Mexico ; in both directions.

4. Martinique via Guadeloupe and via intermediate points to Puerto Rico and beyond via the Dominican Republic to Haiti ; in both directions .

"North Atlantic."

5. Indo-China via points in China and Hong Kong to Manila ; in both directions (provided that this route is subject to the approval of the Government of the Philippine Islands) .

Note: For the purposes of the present Schedule, the term "North

Atlantic" shall mean that part of the North Atlantic Ocean

north of a line from Key West, Florida, to Bermuda , the Azores

and Lisbon, including these points.

JM

JC

GB

LWP

G. P. B.

SCHEDULE II

ROUTES TO BE SERVED BY THE AIR CARRIERS OF THE UNITED STATES

(Points on any of the routes may, at the option of the air carrier, be omitted on any or all flights .)

1. The United States via intermediate points over the North Atlantic to Paris and beyond via intermediate points in Switzerland , Italy, Greece, Egypt , the Near East, India, Burma and Siam to Hanoi , and thence to China and beyond ; in both directions .

2. The United States via intermediate points over the North Atlantic and Spain to Marseille and beyond via Milan , Budapest and points south of the parallel of Budapest to Turkey and thence via intermediate points to a connection with Route 8 and beyond on said route ; in both directions .

Dec. 28, 29, 1945 61 STAT. ] FRANCE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Mar. 27, 1946
TABLEAU I

ROUTES POUVANT ETRE DESSERVIES PAR LES ENTREPRISES FRANCAISES DE TRANSPORT AERIEN

(Tout point des routes énumérées ci-dessous pourra, au choix de l'entreprise, ne pas être desservi par certains des services assurés par celle-ci ou par la totalité desdits services).

Iº/De France , via des points intermédiaires sur l'Atlantique-Nord, vers Boston, New-York et Washington , ainsi que vers le siège de l'Organisation des Nations-Unies ; dans les deux sens.
2º/De France, via des points intermédiaires sur l'Atlantique-Nord et Montréal vers Chicago ; dans les deux sens.
3º/De France, via des points intermédiaires sur l'Atlantique-Nord vers New-York et au-delà vers le Mexique ; dans les deux sens . 4º/De la Martinique, via la Guadeloupe et des points intermédiaires vers Porto-Rico et au-delà vers la République Dominicaine et Haïti ; dans les deux sens.

5º/D'Indochine via des points en Chine et Hong-Kong vers Manille ; dans les deux sens (sous réserve de l'agrément du Gouvernement des Iles Philippines) .

NOTE - Au sens du présent tableau, l'expression "Atlantique-Nord"

s'entendra de la partie de l'Océan Atlantique s'étendant au nord d'une ligne reliant Key-West (Floride) à Lisbonne par les Bermudes et les Açores, ces points étant inclus.

JM

JC

GB

LWP

G. P. B.

TABLEAU II

ROUTES POUVANT ETRE DESSERVIES PAR LES ENTREPRISES DE TRANSPORT AERIEN DES ETATS-UNIS .

(Tout point des routes énumérées ci-dessous pourra, au choix de l'entreprise, ne pas être desservi par certains des services assurés par celle-ci ou par la totalité desdits services) .

1º/ Des Etats-Unis via des points intermédiaires sur l'Atlantique-

Nord vers Paris et au-delà, via des points intermédiaires en Suisse , en

Italie, en Grèce, en Egypte, dans le Proche-Orient, aux Indes, en

Birmanie

et

au

Siam

vers

Hanoi,

et

au-delà

vers

la

Chine

et

les

 au

delà; dans les deux sens.

2°/ Des Etats-Unis via des points intermédiaires sur l'AtlantiqueNord et l'Espagne vers Marseille et au-delà, via Milan , Budapest et des points au sud du parallèle de Budapest , vers la Turquie, et au delà via des points intermédiaires jusqu'à un raccordement avec la route Nº 8 et les au-delà sur ladite route ; dans les deux sens .

3467

3468

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
3. The United States via intermediate points over the North Atalantic , and Spain to Algiers, Tunis, and beyond via intermediate points to Egypt, and beyond via Route 1 ; in both directions.

4. The United States via intermediate points to Dakar, Pointe Noire , Brazzaville , and beyond via intermediate points to the Union of South Africa ; in both directions .
5. The United States via intermediate points to Guadeloupe, Martinique, and beyond via intermediate points to French Guiana , and beyond in South America ; in both directions.
6. The United States via intermediate points in the Pacific Ocean to New Caledonia and beyond on one or more routes to Australasia (including Australia and New Zealand) ; in both directions .

7. The United States via intermediate points in the Pacific Ocean and Manila to Saigon, and beyond to Singapore and Batavia ; in both directions .

"North Atlantic."

8. The United States via intermediate points in the Pacific Ocean, Manila, Hong Kong, Macao, and China to Hanoi and beyond via Siam, Burma to India and beyond ; in both directions.
Note 1 : For the purposes of the present Schedule , the term "North Atlantic" shall mean that part of the North Atlantic Ocean north of a line from Key West , Florida, to Bermuda, the Azores and Lisbon , including these points .

HaRniogihatnsdrSeasipgeocnt.ing Note 2 : It is understood that the rights granted in respect of Hanoi and Saigon shall be in effect from the date of the present

Agreement for a period of one year and automatically renewed thereafter except in the event of denunciation with

three months ' advance notice at the expiration of any annual

period .

JM

JC

GB

LWP

G. P.B.

Dec. 28, 29, 1945 61 STAT. ] FRANCE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Mar. 27, 1946
3 / Des Etats-Unis via des points intermédiaires sur l'AtlantiqueNord et l'Espagne vers Alger, Tunis et au-delà via des points intermédiaires vers l'Egypte, et les au-delà sur la route N° I ; dans les deux sens .
4°/ Des Etats-Unis, via des points intermédiaires vers Dakar, PointeNoire, Brazzaville et au-delà via des points intermédiaires vers l'Union Sud-Africaine ; dans les deux sens.
5º Des Etats-Unis via des points intermédiaires vers la Guadeloupe, la Martinique et au-delà via des points intermédiaires vers la Guyane française et les au-delà en Amérique du Sud ; dans les deux sens.
6°/ Des Etats-Unis via des points intermédiaires dans l'Océan Pacifique vers la Nouvelle-Calédonie et au-delà sur une ou plusieurs routes vers l'Australasie (y compris l'Australie et la Nouvelle-Zélande) ; dans les deux sens.
7°/ Des Etats-Unis via des points intermédiaires dans l'Océan Pacifique & Manille, vers Saigon, et au-delà vers Singapour et Batavia ; dans les deux sens .
8°/ Des Etats-Unis via des points intermédiaires dans l'Océan Pacifique, Manille, Hong-Kong, Macao et la Chine vers Hanoi et au-delà via le Siam, la Birmanie, les Indes et les au-delà ; dans les deux sens .
NOTE - I Au sens du présent tableau , l'expression "Atlantique Nord" s'entendra de la partie de l'Océan Atlantique s'étendant au nord d'une ligne reliant Key West (Floride) à Lisbonne par les Bermudes et les Açores, ces points étant inclus.
2 Il est entendu que les droits accordés à Hanoi et Saigon porteront effet à compter de la date du présent Accord pour une période d'une année renouvelable par tacite reconduction sous réserve de dénonciation à l'expiration d'une période annuelle moyennant un préavis de trois mois.

JM GB

JC LWP G.P.B.

3469

95347-50- PT. IV- 9

3470

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

PROTOCOLE DE SIGNATURE

Points ofagreement. It appeared in the course of negotiations leading up to the conclusion

of the Agreement on air services between French territory and the

territory of the United States of America signed at Paris today that

the representatives of the two Contracting Parties were in agreement

Equal opportunity for operation ofroutes.
Ante, p. 3456.

on the following points :
1. The air carriers of the two Contracting Parties operating on the routes described in the Annex of said Agreement shall enjoy equal opportunity for the operation of the said routes.
2. To the extent that the carrier or carriers of one of the governments

is temporarily unable to take advantage of such opportunities as a result of the war, the situation will be mutually examined by the two governments for the purpose of aiding as soon as possible the said air

carrier or carriers to increasingly make their proper contribution to the services contemplated .

Airports constructed on French terri- 3. The airports which were constructed on French territory and tUo.rSy.and financed by financed in whole or part by the Government of the United States and
which will be open to international civil traffic will be open to the duly authorized air carriers of the United States who will enjoy thereon, on a non-discriminatory basis, rights of transit and non-traffic stop .

Legislation. Ante, p. 3460.

They will likewise enjoy there the commercial rights which may be granted them by the present Agreement or any other agreement now in force or later concluded.
4. In order to give effect to the provisions of Section V (f) of the Annex to the Agreement, the executive branch of the United States Government will use its best efforts to secure legislation empowering the aeronautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic rates for international services and to suspend proposed rates ,

in the same manner as the Civil Aeronautics Board is qualified to act with respect to air transportation within the United States.

Determination of

tariffs.

5. It is recognized that the determination of tariffs to be applied

by an air carrier of one Contracting Party between the territory of

the other Contracting Party and a third country is a complex ques-

tion, the overall solution of which cannot be sought through consul-

tation between only two countries. It is noted, furthermore, that the

method of determining such tariffs is now being studied by the Pro-

visional International Civil Aviation Organization. It is understood under these circumstances:

Dec. 28, 29, 1945 61 STAT. ] FRANCE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Mar. 27, 1946
PROTOCOLE DE SIGNATURE.
Il est apparu au cours des négociations ayant abouti à la conclusion de l'Accord relatif aux services aériens entre les territoires français et les territoires des Etats-Unis d'Amérique signé à Paris en date de ce jour que les représentants des deux Parties Contractantes étaient d'accord sur les points suivants:
1º/ Les entreprises aériennes des deux Parties Contractantes exploitant les lignes mentionnées à l'Annexe audit Accord doivent pou voir bénéficier de possibilités égales pour l'exploitation des dites lignes.
2º Dans la mesure où l'entreprise ou les entreprises de l'un des Gouvernements ne pourraient temporairement bénéficier de telles possibilités , en raison des conséquences de la guerre , la situation serait examinée en commun par les deux Gouvernements à l'effet d'aider aussitôt que possible les dites entreprises ou entreprises à apporter progressivement une contribution appropriée aux services envisagés ; et
3º Les aérodromes dont la construction sur les territoires français a été financée en tout ou partie par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis et qui seraient affectés au trafic international civil seront ouverts aux entreprises aériennes des Etats-Unis dûment autorisés, qui y jouiront sans discrimination des droits de transit et d'escales pour raisons noncommerciales . Elles y jouiront également des droits commerciaux qui leur seraient octroyés par le présent Accord ou par tout autre Accord maintenu en vigueur ou ultérieurement conclu .
4º/ En vue de donner effet aux dispositions de la Section V,f de l'Annexe à l'Accord , les organes exécutifs du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis s'efforceront d'obtenir que les Autorités aéronautiques des Etats-Unis reçoivent les pouvoirs légaux leur permettant de fixer des tarifs justes et économiques pour le transport des personnes et des messageries sur les services aériens internationaux et de suspendre la mise en application des tarifs proposés , de même que le "Civil Aeronautics Board" est habilité à le faire en ce qui concerne les transports Aériens à l'intérieur des Etats-Unis .
5º Il est reconnu que la fixation des tarifs à appliquer par une entreprise ressortissant d'une Partie Contractante entre le territoire de l'autre Partie Contractante et celui d'un pays tiers est une question complexe dont la solution d'ensemble ne peut être recherchée par des consultations entre deux Pays seulement . Il est pris acte , au demeurant, de ce que les conditions de fixation desdits tarifs sont actuellement étudiées par l'Organisation Provisoire de l'Aviation Civile Internationale . Il est entendu dans ces conditions :

3471

3472

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

(a) That, pending the acceptance by both parties of any recommendations which the Provisional International Civil Avia-

Ante, p. 3456, Ante, p. 3452.

tion Organization may make after its study of this matter, such tariffs shall be subject to consideration under the provisions of Section IV (b) of the Annex to the Agreement. (b) That in case the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization fails to establish a means of determining such rates satisfactory to both Contracting Parties, the consultation provided for in Article XIII (b) of the Agreement shall be in order.

Service to Marti- 6. For fifteen months from the signing of these documents, pendnique.
ing the completion of necessary improvements to the airport at

Martinique (expected in the first quarter of 1947) , it is understood

that the French Transatlantic service to Martinique will have its

temporary terminus at Puerto Rico . During this period, the French

air carrier shall have at Puerto Rico the right of commercial entry

and departure for international traffic in passengers, cargo and mail on the above service.

Service at Dakar.

7. It is understood that the United States air carrier or air carriers

Ante, p. 3466.

operating on the route listed in Schedule II as Route No. 4 will afford

reasonable service at Dakar.

JM GB

JC LWP G.P.B.

Dec. 28, 29, 1945 61 STAT. ] FRANCE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Mar. 27, 1946
a) qu'en attendant l'acceptation par les deux Parties Contractantes des recommandations que l'Organisation Provisoire de l'Aviation Civile Internationale serait amenée à faire en conclusion de ses
travaus sur ce point , de tels tarifs seront appréciés en fonction des dispositions de la section IV (b) de l'Annexe à l'Accord ;
b) qu'au cas où l'Organisation Provisoire de l'Aviation Civile Internationale ne parviendrait pas à établir des conditions de fixation desdits tarifs donnant satisfaction aux deux Parties Contractantes, la consultation prévue à l'article XIII-b) de l'Accord serait de droit.

6°/ Pour une durée de quinze mois à compter de la signature du présent Accord , en attendant l'achèvement des aménagements nécessaires à l'aérodrome de la Martinique (prévu pour le premier trimestre de 1947 ) , il est entendu que le service Transatlantique français vers la Martinique aura son terminus provisoire à Porto-Rico . Pendant cette période , l'entreprise française jouira à Porto-Rico sur ledit service du droit de débarquer et d'embarquer en trafic international des passagers, du courrier et des marchandises.
7°/ Il est entendu que l'entreprise ou les entreprises de transport aérien des Etats-Unis qui assureront l'exploitation de la route figurant au tableau II sous le Numéro 4 effectueront un service raisonnable à Dakar.

JM GB

JC LWP G.P.B.

3473

3474

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

The American Ambassador to the French Minister of Foreign Affairs

No. 1022

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Paris, December 28, 1945

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to refer to the Air Transport Agreement concluded

53 Stat. 2422.
Authorization to operate over designated routes.

between the Governments of the United States and France by an exchange of notes dated July 15, 1939 .
As Your Excellency is aware , it is the desire of my Government to see the restoration of international civil air services at the earliest

practicable date . I venture to inquire, therefore , if Your Excellency's Government would be disposed , in view of the existing Agreement, to grant authorization for American air carriers to operate over the following routes :

1. The United States via intermediate points over a North Atlantic route to Paris and beyond via intermediate stops in Switzerland , Italy and Greece to the Near East and India ; in both directions.
2. The United States via intermediate points over a North Atlantic route to Lisbon, Barcelona and Marseille ; in both directions.

In making this request, I should state that my Government desires that the American carriers concerned shall have the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers , mail and cargo at the points in French territory named above.
Although it is unknown at this moment the number of schedules the American operators would be prepared to perform, it is hoped that Your Excellency's Government would be disposed to permit a greater frequency than the two flights weekly accorded in the Air Transport Agreement under reference.
My Government suggests that the addition to the existing Agreement , which would be constituted by the present letter together with a favorable response from Your Excellency , should be subject to termination at any time by either Government on one month's notice in writing to the other.
I take this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
JEFFERSON CAFFERY His Excellency
Monsieur GEORGES BIDAULT, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Paris.

Dec. 28, 29, 1945 61 STAT. ] FRANCE- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Mar. 27, 1946

The French Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTÈRE
DES AFFAIRES ETRANGÈRES

RÉPUBLIQUE FRANÇAISE

MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR ,

PARIS, le 29 Décembre 1945

Votre Excellence a bien voulu me faire tenir en date d'hier la lettre

suivante :

"MONSIEUR LE MINISTRE, "J'ai l'honneur de me référer à l'Arrangement pour le fonctionnement des Services de Transports Aériens conclu entre les Gouvernements américain et français par un échange de lettres en date du 15 Juillet 1939.
"Votre Excellence n'ignore pas que mon Gouvernement souhaiterait voir restaurer le plus tôt possible les services aériens civils internationaux. Je vous serais donc reconnaissant de bien vouloir me faire savoir si le Gouvernement de Votre Excellence serait disposé, eu égard à l'Arrangement en vigueur, à autoriser des entreprises américaines de transport aérien à assurer des services sur les routes suivantes:
I- Des ETATS-UNIS, via des points intermédiaires sur une route Nord-Atlantique , vers PARIS et les audelà à destination des INDES , avec escales intermédiaires en SUISSE, en ITALIE, en GRECE et dans le PROCHE-ORIENT ; dans les deux sens . 2- Des ETATS -UNIS, via des points intermédiaires sur une route Nord-Atlantique, vers LISBONNE, BARCELONE et MARSEILLE ; dans les deux sens .
"En présentant cette demande, j'ajoute que mon Gouvernement souhaiterait que les entreprises américaines aient le droit de charger et de décharger en trafic international des passagers, du frêt et du courrier aux points sus-mentionnés du territoire français .
"Bien que ne soient pas connues pour le moment les fréquences que les entreprises américaines seraient prêtes à exploiter, le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis espère que le Gouvernement de Votre Excellence serait disposé à autoriser des fréquences plus nombreuses que les deux aller et retour hebdomadaires accordés par l'Arrangement sur le Fonctionnement des Services de Transports Aériens ci-dessus mentionné.
"Mon Gouvernement estime enfin que l'avenant à l'Arrangement en vigueur que constituerait, avec la présente lettre, une réponse favorable de Votre Excellence, devrait pouvoir être dénoncé à tout moment par l'un ou l'autre des deux Gouvernements, une telle dénonciation portant effet à l'expiration d'un délai d'un mois après sa notification par écrit à l'autre Gouvernement .
"Veuillez agréer . . . ."

J'ai l'honneur de faire savoir à Votre Excellence qu'en attendant la conclusion d'un nouvel accord général en cette matière , le Gouvernement français est tout disposé, en se référant à l'Arrangement sur le fonctionnement des Services de Transports Aériens en date du 15

3475

3476

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Juillet 1939 , à accorder aux entreprises de transport aérien des EtatsUnis le droit de charger et de décharger en trafic international , à Paris et à Marseille, des passagers, du courrier et du frêt sur les itinéraires ci-dessus mentionnés, aux conditions suivantes:
A/ Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis accordera aux entreprises françaises de transport aérien les mêmes droits sur les itinéraires suivants :
I - De France, via des points intermédiaires sur une route NordAtlantique, vers New-York et Washington ; dans les deux sens .
2- De France, via des points intermédiaires sur une route NordAtlantique , vers Montréal et Chicago ; dans les deux sens .
B/ Dans l'établissement et l'exploitation technique et commerciale des services long courrier mentionnés ci-dessus, les entreprises de chacun des deux pays prendront en considération les intérêts des entreprises de l'autre, afin de ne pas indûment affecter les services que ces dernières assureraient sur tout ou partie des mêmes parcours.
La faculté pour les entreprises de transport aérien de chacun des deux pays de charger et de décharger, dans les villes et sur les itinéraires énumérés ci-dessus, des passagers , du courrier et du frêt à destination ou en provenance de pays tiers , est accordée à l'effet de permettre une exploitation plus économique des services long-courrier assurés par lesdites entreprises, services qui devront conserver comme objet essentiel de relier le pays auquel ressortit chacune de ces entreprises aux pays desservis en dernier lieu.
J'ajoute que le Gouvernement français examinera dans un esprit favorable les demandes d'augmentation de fréquences qui lui seraient présentées par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis par rapport aux deux aller et retour hebdomadaires prévus à l'Arrangement en vigueur, étant entendu que le Gouvernement français bénéficiera des mêmes fréquences .
Conformément à la proposition faite par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis, le Gouvernement français accepte que l'avenant à l'Arrangement en vigueur, que constitue la présente communication, conjointement avec la lettre de Votre Excellence en date de ce jour, puisse être dénoncée à tout moment par l'un ou l'autre des deux Gouvernements , une telle dénonciation portant effet à l'expiration d'un délai d'un mois après sa notification par écrit à l'autre Gouvernement./.
Veuillez agréer, Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, les assurances de ma très haute considération .
Pour le Ministre des Affaires Etrangères et par Delegation
L'Ambassadeur de France Secrétaire Général du Ministère des Affaires Etrangères J. CHAUVEL
S. E. Monsieur JEFFERSON CAFFERY Ambassadeur des Etats- Unis à Paris

Dec. 28, 2,91946 61 STAT. ] FRANCE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Mar. 27 , 1945

Ministry of Foreign Affairs

Translation

FRENCH REPUBLIC

3477

PARIS, December 29, 1945 MR. AMBASSADOR :
Your Excellency has been so good as to send me, under the date of yesterday, the following letter:
[For the English text of the Ambassador's note, of which a French translation is quoted herein, see page 3474, and for an English translation of the remainder of this note from the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the exception of the final paragraph, see below. ]
Please accept, Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my very high consideration.
For the Minister of Foreign Affairs and by Delegation
Ambassador of France General Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs J. CHAUVEL
His Excellency JEFFERSON CAFFERY Ambassador of the United States Paris

The American Ambassador to the French Minister of Foreign Affairs

No. 1023

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Paris, December 29, 1945

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's letter of today's date quoting my letter of December 28 on the subject of air transport services between the United States and France and adding the following:

Ante, p. 3474.

"I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that pending the

Grant by French Government of desig-

conclusion of a new general agreement on this matter, the French nated rights.

Government is quite disposed , with reference to the Arrangement for the Operation of Air Transport Services dated July 15 , 1939, to 53 Stat. 2422.

grant to United States air carriers the right to pick up and discharge, in international traffic , passengers, mail and cargo at Paris and Marseille on the above-mentioned routes, under the following conditions .

3478 Termination .

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
"A. The Government of the United States will grant to French airlines the same rights on the following routes:
"1. France via intermediate points over a North Atlantic route to New York and Washington ; in both directions .
"2. France via intermediate points over a North Atlantic route to Montreal and Chicago ; in both directions.
"B. In the establishment and technical and commercial operation of the long range services mentioned above , the airlines of each of the two countries shall take into consideration the interests of the airlines of the other in order not to affect unduly the services which the latter perform on all or part of the same routes .
"The right of the airlines of each country to embark and disembark, in the cities and on the routes enumerated above , passengers , mail and goods destined to or coming from third countries, is accorded with the view to permitting more economical operation of the long range services performed by the said airlines , such services to retain as their primary objective the connection between the country of which each airline is a national and the country of ultimate destination.
"I would add that the French Government will consider favorably the requests which may be presented to it by the Government of the United States for flights in addition to the two per week provided in the existing Agreement, it being understood that the French Government will have benefit of the same frequencies .
"Conforming to the proposal made by the Government of the United States , the French Government agrees that the addition to the existing Agreement, constituted by the present communication together with the letter from Your Excellency of today's date, may be terminated at any time by either Government , such denunciation to take effect at the expiration of one month following written notification to the other Government ." I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the foregoing provisions are acceptable to the Government of the United States. I take this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
JEFFERSON CAFFERY
His Excellency Monsieur GEORGES BIDAULT, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Paris.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION-- SEPT. 25, 1946

3479

Convention, and final protocol and regulations of execution of the convention, between the United States of America and other governments respecting a postal union ofthe Americas and Spain. Signed at Rio de Janeiro September 25, 1946; ratified and approved by the Postmaster General of the United States of America February 20, 1947; approved by the President of the United States of America February 27, 1947; entered into force January 1 , 1947.

September 25, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1680]

UNIÓN POSTAL DE LAS AMÉRICAS Y ESPAÑA

CONVENIO
celebrado entre:
Argentina, Bolivia, Brasil, Canadá , Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Chile, Ecuador, El Salvador, España, Estados Unidos de América, Estados Unidos de Venezuela, Guatemala, Haití, Honduras , México , Nicaragua, Panamá , Paraguay, Perú , República Dominicana y Uruguay.
Los infrascritos, Plenipotenciarios de los Gobiernos de los países mencionados, reunidos en Congreso en la ciudad de Río de Janeiro , República de los Estados Unidos del Brasil, en ejercicio del derecho que les concede el Convenio de la Unión Postal Universal, e inspirándose en el deseo de extender, facilitar y perfeccionar sus relaciones postales y de establecer una solidaridad de acción capaz de representar eficazmente en los Congresos Postales Universales sus intereses comunes, en lo que se refiere a las comunicaciones por correo , han determinado celebrar, ad referendum, el Convenio siguiente:
ARTICULO 1
Unión Postal de las Américas y España
Los países contratantes, de acuerdo con la precedente declaración, constituyen, bajo la denominación de Unión Postal de las Américas y España, un solo territorio postal.
ARTICULO 2
Uniones restringidas
1. Los países contratantes, ya sea por su situación limítrofe o por la intensidad de sus relaciones postales, podrán establecer entre sí uniones más estrechas, con el fin de reducir tarifas o introducir otras mejoras sobre cualesquiera de los servicios a que se refieren el presente Convenio o los Acuerdos especiales celebrados por este Congreso .
2. Asimismo, y en lo que concierne a asuntos no previstos en el presente Convenio o en el de la Unión Postal Universal , los países signatarios podrán adoptar entre sí las resoluciones que estimen convenientes por medio de correspondencia, o si fuere necesario,

3480

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
ajustando un Acuerdo especial, de conformidad con la autorización que les confiere el presente artículo o su legislación interna.
ARTICULO 3
Tránsito libre y gratuito
1. La gratuidad del tránsito territorial, fluvial y marítimo es absoluta en el territorio de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España ; en consecuencia, los países que la integran se obligan a transportar a través de sus territorios y a conducir en los buques de su matrícula o bandera, sin cargo ninguno para los países contratantes , toda la correspondencia que éstos expidan con cualquier destino .
2. En los casos de reencaminamiento , los países contratantes se comprometen a reexpedir la correspondencia por las vías y conductos que utilicen para sus propios envíos.
ARTICULO 4
Convenio y Acuerdos de la Unión
Objetos de correspondencia
1. Las disposiciones de este Convenio y su Reglamento de Ejecución regularán, en todo lo previsto , los servicios relativos a la correspondencia .
2. Los demás servicios se regirán por los Acuerdos de esta Unión, por los que sobre el particular firmaren entre sí los países o , en su defecto, por los de la Unión Postal Universal .
3. La denominación de objetos de correspondencia se aplica a las cartas, tarjetas postales sencillas y con respuesta pagada, papeles de negocios, impresos, impresiones en relieve para el uso de los ciegos , muestras de mercadería, pequeños paquetes y fonopostales.
4. El intercambio de pequeños paquetes y fonopostales quedará limitado a los países que convengan en realizarlo , ya sea en sus relaciones recíprocas o en una sola dirección.
ARTITULO 5
Tarifa
1. La tarifa del servicio interior de cada país regirá en las relaciones de los países que constituyen la Unión Postal de las Américas y España , excepto cuando dicha tarifa interna sea superior a la que se aplique a la correspondencia destinada a los países de la Unión Postal Universal, en cuyo caso regirá esta última.
2. También regirá la tarifa internacional cuando se trate de servicios que no existan en el régimen interior.
3. Para los pequeños paquetes regirá la tarifa que determina el artículo 6 de este Convenio .
4. Las partes contratantes podrán establecer un derecho de almacenaje sobre los impresos, previo acuerdo entre las Administraciones interesadas, cuando así les conviniere.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946
ARTICULO 6
Pequeños paquetes
1. En el servicio facultativo de pequeños paquetes de que trata el artículo 4 de este Convenio , cada envío no podrá pesar más de un kilogramo ni contener objetos cuyo valor mercantil, en la localidad en que fuere entregado al Correo, exceda del valor de 10 francos oro o su equivalencia en la moneda del país de origen.
2. Las Administraciones que presten el servicio de pequeños paquetes regulado por el Convenio Universal no estarán obligadas a observar, en sus relaciones recíprocas, cualquiera disposición en conflicto con las respectivas estipulaciones del citado Convenio.
3. Los pequeños paquetes de cualquier especie, intercambiados entre los países de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España , teniendo en cuenta que no están afectos al pago de derechos de tránsito , serán franqueados de conformidad con la tarifa adoptada en cada país para las encomiendas de su servicio interno , pudiendo las Administraciones aplicar a esos pequeños paquetes las tasas previstas por el Convenio Postal Universal.
4. Las Administraciones de destino podrán someter a la fiscalización aduanera los pequeños paquetes, de acuerdo con las disposiciones de su legislación interna .
5. Las Administraciones de los países de destino podrán percibir de los destinatarios de pequeños paquetes:
a) Una cuota de 40 céntimos de franco oro, como máximo, por las operaciones, formalidades y tramitaciones inherentes al despacho aduanero ;
b) Una cuota, que no excederá de 15 céntimos de franco oro, por la entrega de cada objeto , que será elevada hasta 30 céntimos de franco oro, como máximo , en el caso de entrega a domicilio.
6. Cuando los pequeños paquetes fueren considerados por la aduana del país de destino como exentos de pago de derechos aduaneros, no serán aplicables las cuotas de entrega previstas en el inciso b) , parágrafo 5 de este artículo.
ARTICULO 7
Cupones-respuesta
1. En el régimen de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España el precio de venta al público de los cupones-respuesta será determinado por las Administraciones interesadas , pero no podrá ser inferior al equivalente de 15 céntimos de franco oro en la moneda del país que efectúe la venta.
2. Cada cupón es canjeable en cualesquiera de los países que integran la Unión, por un sello o sellos que representen el franqueo de una carta ordinaria de porte sencillo , originaria de ese mismo país con destino a otro país de la Unión. El plazo de validez de los cupones es ilimitado.

3481

3482

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
3. Los cupones-respuesta se imprimirán por la Oficina Internacional de Montevideo y serán suministrados a las Administraciones de la Unión a precio de costo.
4. En los ajustes de cuentas entre las Administraciones, el valor de los cupones - respuesta será calculado a razón de 15 céntimos de franco oro por unidad.
5. Cuando , en las relaciones entre dos Administraciones , el saldo anual no sea superior a 10 francos oro, la Administración deudora quedará exenta de cualquier pago .
6. Las Administraciones tienen la facultad de no encargarse de la venta de cupones-respuesta , siendo el canje , sin embargo , obligatorio.
7. Cuando la liquidación de las cuentas a que diere lugar el intercambio de cupones-respuesta américoespañoles no se efectúe directamente entre las Administraciones interesadas , la Oficina Internacional de Montevideo actuará como intermediaria . En este caso , formulará anualmente un estado de Administraciones deudoras y acreedoras , en forma similar a lo establecido en las disposiciones respectivas de la Unión Postal Universal.
ARTICULO 8
Devolución, reexpedición o modificación de dirección
Las disposiciones del Convenio de la Unión Postal Universal y su Reglamento de Ejecución , relativas a solicitudes de devolución, modificación de dirección y reexpedición , regirán en el orden de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España . Sin embargo, se considerarán llegadas fuera de término tales solicitudes cuando la Administración de destino resuelva pasar las piezas a jurisdicción aduanera .
ARTICULO 9
Correspondencia certificada . Responsabilidad
1. Los objetos designados en el artículo 4 , podrán ser expedidos con el carácter de certificados , mediante el pago de un derecho igual al establecido para el servicio interno del país de origen, salvo que fuere más elevado que el que se aplique según el Convenio Postal Universal, en cuyo caso regirá este último .
2. Las Administraciones contratantes serán responsables de la pérdida de todo objeto certificado , excepto en los casos de fuerza mayor. El remitente tendrá derecho a una indemnización de 10 francos oro o su equivalente en la moneda del país que deba hacerla efectiva, pudiendo , no obstante, reclamar una indemnización menor.
3. Quedarán las Administraciones relevadas de responsabilidad por la pérdida de objetos certificados cuyo contenido caiga bajo el régimen de las prohibiciones del Convenio Postal Universal o esté prohibido por las leyes o reglamentos del país de origen o de destino , siempre que dichos países hayan dado el debido conocimiento por la vía usual.
4. Se mantiene, con carácter facultativo, una categoría especial de certificados sin derecho a indemnización aplicable a los objetos de correspondencia a que se refiere el artículo 4 , parágrafo 3 , del presente

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946
Convenio. Las Administraciones que pongan en vigencia dicho servicio están obligadas a comunicarlo por la vía más rápida a la Oficina Internacional, con el fin de que ésta lo lleve a conocimiento de las demás . Los objetos a que se apliquen los derechos de certificación reducidos se singularizarán en el anverso con la mención "S. I. " (sin indemnización) , haciéndose igual anotación en las listas descriptivas, en la columna de "Observaciones " , así como también en las reclamaciones que se formulen para investigar su destino.
5. Las Administraciones que adopten de una manera general un derecho de certificación reducido para todos los objetos que no sean cartas ni tarjetas postales , no estarán obligadas a observar los formalidades establecidas en la parte final del parágrafo anterior.
ARTICULO 10
Reclamaciones
La reclamación o la solicitud de informe con respecto a cualquier envío , dará lugar al cobro de un derecho igual al que tengan establecido en su régimen interno los países contratantes, excepto cuando el derecho interno sea superior al establecido por el Convenio Postal Universal, en cuyo caso regirá éste.
ARTICULO 11
Envíos sujetos a intervención aduanera
1. Es obligatoria la aplicación del marbete C- 1 , establecido por el Convenio Postal Universal , cuando se trate de piezas de correspondencia, cuyo contenido sea pasible de pago de derechos aduaneros en el país de destino . El uso de la declaración C-2 es facultativo para los envíos precitados.
2. Sin embargo, para los envíos abiertos, excepto los pequeños paquetes, no es obligatorio el uso de una u otra de las fórmulas citadas en el parágrafo anterior, sin perjuicio de la intervención de la aduana del país de destino.
ARTICULO 12
Peso y dimensiones
1. Los límites de peso y las dimensiones de los objetos de correspondencia se ajustarán a lo preceptuado en el Convenio de la Unión Postal Universal, con excepción de los impresos, cuyo peso podrá alcanzar a 5 kilogramos , o hasta 10, cuando se trate de obras de un solo volumen. Sin embargo, se aceptarán envíos con peso mayor de 5 y hasta 10 kilogramos, aún no tratándose de obras de un solo volumen, previo acuerdo entre las Administraciones interesadas.
2. Los envíos en forma de rollo , siempre que se trate de objetos indivisibles , podrán medir, sumada su longitud con el diámetro de ambas bases , hasta 120 centímetros , sin que la dimensión mayor pueda exceder de 100 centímetros.

3483

3484

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
ARTICULO 13
Franquicia de porte
1. Las partes contratantes convienen en conceder franquicia de porte, en el servicio interno y en el servicio américoespañol :
a) A la correspondencia relativa al servicio postal , cambiada entre las Administraciones de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España ; entre estas Administraciones y la Oficina Internacional de Montevideo ; entre las mismas Adminisciones y la Oficina de Transbordos de Panamá ; entre esta última y la referida Oficina Internacional ; entre las Oficinas postales de los países américoespañoles ; y entre estas Oficinas y las Administraciones postales de los aludidos países ;
b) A la correspondencia de los miembros del Cuerpo Diplomático de los países signatarios ;
c) A la correspondencia oficial que los Cónsules y los Vice-cónsules cuando se hallaren en funciones de cónsules , remitan a sus respectivos países ; a la que cambien entre sí ; a la que dirijan a las autoridades del país en que estuvieren acreditados y a la que crucen con sus respectivas Embajadas y Legaciones, siempre que exista reciprocidad ;
d) Gozarán de franquicia de porte los diarios , publicaciones periódicas, libros, folletos y otros impresos, que expidan los editores o autores con destino a las Oficinas de Información establecidas por las Administraciones de Correos de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España , así como los que se remitan gratuitamente a las bibliotecas y demás centros culturales nacionales, oficialmente reconocidos por los Gobiernos de los países que integran esta Unión ;
e) A la correspondencia oficial que expida y reciba la Unión Panamericana de Washington.
2. La correspondencia a que se refieren los incisos a) , b) y c) del parágrafo anterior podrá ser expedida con carácter certificado , exenta del pago del derecho respectivo , pero sin que haya lugar a indemnización alguna .
3. La correspondencia oficial de los Gobiernos Centrales de los países de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España, que conforme a sus leyes interiores circule libre de porte en su régimen interno , se admitirá con igual franquicia en el país de destino , sin ningún gravamen en el mismo, siempre que se observe una estricta reciprocidad.
4. Gozará asimismo, de franquicia de porte, la correspondencia de las Comisiones Nacionales de Cooperación Intelectual constituídas bajo los auspicios de los Gobiernos , de acuerdo con Convenciones Panamericanas y Universales vigentes.
5. El intercambio de correspondencia del Cuerpo Diplomático, entre las Secretarías de Estado de los respectivos países y sus Embajadas o Legaciones, tendrá el carácter de reciprocidad entre los países contratantes y será efectuado al descubierto o por medio de valijas

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946

diplomáticas de conformidad con lo determinado en el artículo 105 del Reglamento de Ejecución. Estas valijas gozarán de franquicia y de todas las garantías de los envíos oficiales .
6. La franquicia de que trata el presente artículo, no alcanza al servicio aéreo ni a los demás servicios especiales existentes en el régimen américoespañol o en el interno de los países contratantes.
ARTICULO 14
Reducción de tasas

Los envíos que contengan objetos de correspondencia, con excepción de los pequeños paquetes, que intercambien las direcciones de las Escuelas de los países de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España o los alumnos de las mismas por intermedio de sus directores, gozarán de una tarifa equivalente al 50 % de la ordinaria, siempre que su peso no exceda de un kilogramo y satisfagan las demás condiciones que correspondan a su clasificación postal .

ARTICULO 15

Servicios especiales

Las Altas Partes contratantes podrán, sobre la base de acuerdos

especiales o por correspondencia, hacer extensivos a los demás países de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España los servicios postales que

presten o puedan, en lo futuro, establecer en el interior de sus respecti-

vos países.

ARTICULO 16

Fórmulas de servicio enviadas por correo aéreo
1. Las fórmulas previstas en el Reglamento de Ejecución del Convenio Postal Universal para las solicitudes de devolución de correspondencia o modificación de dirección, así como las relativas a las reclamaciones de cualquier objeto de correspondencia y petición de informes podrán ser encaminadas por la vía aérea.
2. A tal efecto, las fórmulas C.11 , C.12 y C.13 , serán diferenciadas del siguiente modo : en color azul, las que corresponda encaminar por la vía aérea y en rosa, las que deban ser contestadas por la misma vía.
3. El encaminamiento por vía aérea dará lugar a la percepción de un derecho suplementario, que el interesado deberá abonar en el acto de formalizar la gestión, equivalente al porte aéreo de una carta de 5 gramos para el país de destino o al duplo de dicho porte si solicita que la respuesta se expida por la misma vía. Estos derechos quedarán totalmente a beneficio de la Administración que los perciba.
ARTICULO 17
Idioma oficial

Se adopta el español como idioma oficial para los asuntos relativos al servicio de Correos . No obstante, los países cuyo idioma no fuere éste, podrán usar el propio.
95247°-50- PT. IV- 10

3485

3486

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
ARTICULO 18
Protección e intercambio de funcionarios postales 1. Las Administraciones de los países contratantes estarán obligadas a prestarse entre sí , previa solicitud , la cooperación que necesiten sus empleados encargados del transporte de correspondencia en tránsito por tales países . Igualmente proporcionarán toda clase de facilidades a los funcionarios que una de dichas Administraciones acuerde enviar a cualquiera otra, para llevar a cabo estudios acerca del desarrollo y perfeccionamiento de los servicios postales. 2. Las Administraciones, por intermedio de la Oficina Internacional de Montevideo, se pondrán de acuerdo para efectuar entre ellas el intercambio de funcionarios . No obstante lo establecido precedentemente, las Administraciones podrán también acordar el envío de funcionarios, con fines de aprendizaje o de instrucción , sin que para ello sea indispensable el intercambio de éstos . 3. Una vez convenido entre dos o más Administraciones el intercambio o envío unilateral de funcionarios previstos en los parágrafos anteriores, acordarán aquéllas la forma en que deban sufragarse los gastos correspondientes y, cuando lo consideren necesario, a iniciativa y por intermedio de la Oficina Internacional de Montevideo.
ARTICULO 19
Oficina Internacional de Transbordos
1. Queda subsistente en la República de Panamá una Oficina Internacional de Transbordos, a la cual corresponde recibir y reexpedir todos los despachos postales, originarios de las Administraciones de la Unión que no dispongan de servicios propios en el Istmo, y que transitando por él, den lugar a operaciones de transbordo.
2. La expresada Oficina funcionará de acuerdo con el Reglamento concertado entre la Oficina Internacional de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España y la Administración Postal Panameña .
3. Las reformas que en cualquier tiempo deban introducirse en el Reglamento aludido, se someterán por las Administraciones interesadas a la consideración de la Oficina Internacional de Montevideo , para que, por su mediación, se propongan a la Administración Postal de Panamá.
4. La organización y funcionamiento de la Oficina Internacional de Transbordos quedan sometidos a la vigilancia y fiscalización de la Dirección General de Correos y Telégrafos de Panamá y de la Oficina Internacional de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España con sede en Montevideo, a la cual incumbe , además, actuar como mediadora y asesora en cualquier divergencia que surja entre la Administración Postal de Panamá y los países que utilicen los servicios de la Oficina mencionada.
5. El personal adscrito al servicio de la Oficina será designado por la Dirección General de Correos y Telégrafos de Panamá, y tendrá carácter inamovible, conforme con las disposiciones que al respecto establece el Reglamento de la Oficina . Tendrá también los mismos

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946

derechos y obligaciones que las leyes postales de la República de

Panamá dispongan para los empleados de correos .

6. Los gastos que demande el sostenimiento de esta Oficina que-

darán a cargo de los países que utilicen sus servicios, repartidos

aquéllos proporcionalmente al número de valijas propias que intercambien por su mediación .
La Administración de Panamá adelantará las cantidades necesarias

para mantener regularmente los servicios de la Oficina .

Dichas cantidades se reintegrarán trimestralmente por cada Administración interesada, pero los pagos que no se produzcan dentro

de un plazo de seis meses , a partir de la fecha en que la Administra-

ción deudora reciba la cuenta que le formule la Oficina Internacional

de Transbordos, devengarán en favor de aquella Administración un

interés anual del 5%.

ARTICULO 20

Arbitrajes
Todo conflicto o desacuerdo que se suscite en las relaciones postales de los países contratantes, será resuelto por juicio arbitral que se tramitará en la forma dispuesta por el Convenio vigente de la Unión Postal Universal. La designación de árbitros deberá recaer en los países signatarios, y llegado el caso, con intervención de la Oficina Internacional de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España.

ARTICULO 21

Oficina Internacional de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España
1. Con el nombre de Oficina Internacional de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España , funciona en Montevideo, bajo la alta inspección de la Dirección General de Correos de la República Oriental del Uruguay, una Oficina Central que sirve como órgano de relación, información y consulta de los países de la Unión.
2. Esta Oficina se encargará:

a) De reunir, coordinar, publicar y distribuir los datos de toda clase que interesen especialmente al servicio postal américoespañol ;
b) De emitir, a petición expresa de las partes interesadas, su opinión sobre cuestiones litigiosas ;
c) De emitir, por propia iniciativa o a petición de cualesquiera de las Administraciones de los países signatarios, su opinión en todos los asuntos de orden postal que afecten o tengan relación con los intereses generales de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España ;
d) De dar a conocer las solicitudes de modificaciones de las Actas del Congreso que puedan formularse y de notificar los cambios que fueren adoptados;
e) De informar los resultados que se obtengan de las disposiciones y medidas reglamentarias de importancia que las Administraciones adopten en su servicio interno y que le sean comunicadas por las mismas, a título informativo ;

3487

3488

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
f) De la distribución de los Mapas y Guías postales que le remitan las respectivas Administraciones ;
g) De formular el resumen de la estadística postal américoespañola, de acuerdo con los datos que le comunique anualmente cada Administración, para lo cual remitirá a las Administraciones un formulario con el requerimiento completo y detallado de los datos estadísticos postales, de conformidad a un plan científico y racional ;
h) De publicar un informe relativo a las vías más rápidas para la transmisión de la correspondencia de uno a otro de los países contratantes ;
i) De formar un cuadro en que figuren detalladamente todos los servicios marítimos dependientes de los países de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España, que puedan ser utilizados gratuitamente para el transporte de su correspondencia , en las condiciones marcadas por el artículo 3 ;
j) De publicar la tarifa de porte del servicio interior de cada uno de los países interesados ;
k) De confeccionar el cuadro de equivalencias en la moneda del país correspondiente, en francos oro y en dólares ;
1) De redactar y distribuir anualmente entre los países de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España una Memoria de los trabajos que realice ;
m) De llevar a cabo los estudios y trabajos que se le pidan, en interés de los países contratantes y con relación a la obra de vinculación social, económica y artística, para cuyo efecto la Oficina Internacional estará siempre a disposición de dichos países, a fin de facilitarles cuantos informes especiales requieran sobre asuntos relativos al servicio de correos américoespañol ;
n) De intervenir y colaborar en la organización y realización de los Congresos y Conferencias de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España ;
o) De la distribución , entre las Administraciones de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España, de las leyes y reglamentos postales de cada una, teniendo en consecuencia dichas Administraciones, la obligación de proporcionar a la mencionada Oficina veinticinco ejemplares de las expresadas leyes y reglamentos ;
p) De organizar una sección especial, encargada de la colección de los sellos que remitan las Administraciones en cumplimiento del artículo 113 , parágrafo 1 , inciso k) del Reglamento de Ejecución y de centralizar las informaciones filatélicas de los países de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España ;
q) De intervenir a título de Administración compensadora en la liquidación de cuentas postales, a petición de las Administraciones interesadas ;
r) De confeccionar la insignia postal internacional de la U.P.A.E. consistente en un distintivo para uso personal de los funcionarios de las Administraciones adheridas a la Unión ;
s) De la impresión y suministro de cupones - respuesta que dispone el artículo 7 , parágrafo 3.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946
3. La Oficina Internacional de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España publicará, además, de acuerdo con los datos proporcionados por las Administraciones, una recopilación oficial de todas las informaciones relativas a la ejecución del Convenio y de su Reglamento en cada país, que interesen especialmente al servicio postal américoespañol .
La misma Oficina publicará, también, recopilaciones análogas concernientes a la ejecución de los acuerdos de encomiendas y giros postales .
4. Los gastos especiales que demande la formación de la Memoria anual y el cuadro o informaciones sobre comunicaciones postales de los países contratantes, y los que se produzcan con motivo de la reunión de Congresos o Conferencias , serán sufragados por las Administraciones de dichos países de acuerdo con los grupos establecidos en el artículo 110 del Reglamento de Ejecución .
Los gastos que se relacionen con la celebración de los expresados Congresos y Conferencias, serán fijados , en cada ocasión , por la Dirección General de Correos de la República Oriental del Uruguay, de acuerdo con la Oficina Internacional de Montevideo .
5. La Dirección General de Correos del Uruguay fiscalizará los gastos de la Oficina Internacional de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España y le hará los anticipos que ésta necesite.
6. Las cantidades adelantadas por la Administración del Uruguay en concepto de anticipos, a que se refiere el parágrafo anterior, se abonarán por las Administraciones deudoras tan pronto como sea posible y, a más tardar, antes de seis meses, a partir de la fecha en que el país interesado reciba la cuenta formulada por la Dirección General de Correos del Uruguay. Después de esa fecha, las cantidades adeudadas devengarán interés a razón de 5 % al año, a contar del día de expiración de dicho plazo.
7. Los países contratantes se comprometen a incluir en sus presupuestos, una cantidad anual destinada a atender puntualmente al pago de la cuota que les corresponda sufragar.
ARTICULO 22
Congresos
1. Los Congresos se reunirán a más tardar dos años después de la celebración de cada Congreso Postal Universal. Sin embargo , si el intervalo entre estos últimos se extendiere más allá de 5 años , las Administraciones de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España podrán concertar por intermedio de la Oficina Internacional de Montevideo y por unanimidad de votos, una reunión eventual.
2. Cada Congreso fijará el lugar en que deba realizarse la reunión siguiente.
ARTICULO 23
Votos del Congreso
Los países contratantes informarán a la Oficina Internacional de Montevideo, con tres meses de anticipación a la fecha de la celebración

3489

3490

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

de cada Congreso , las gestiones realizadas con el fin de hacer efectivos en sus respectivos países los votos y recomendaciones del último

Congreso.

ARTICULO 24

Proposiciones durante el intervalo de las reuniones
El presente Convenio podrá ser modificado en el intervalo de los Congresos, siguiendo el procedimiento establecido en el Convenio vigente de la Unión Postal Universal. Para que tengan fuerza ejecutiva deberán obtener unanimidad de votos las modificaciones de los artículos 1 , 2 , 3, 4 , 5, 7, 8, 9, 10 , 13 , 16 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 22, 24, 25 , 27, 28, 29 y 30 ; dos terceras partes de votos para los artículos 14 y 23, y simple mayoría para los demás.
ARTICULO 25

Modificaciones y enmiendas
Las modificaciones o resoluciones adoptadas por las Altas Partes contratantes , aún aquéllas de orden interno que afecten el servicio internacional, tendrán fuerza ejecutiva tres meses después de la fecha en que se comunicaren por la Oficina Internacional de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España .
ARTICULO 26

Aplicación del Convenio Postal Universal y de la legislación interna
1. Todos los asuntos que se relacionen con el canje de correspondencia entre los países contratantes y que no estén previstos en este Convenio, se sujetarán a las disposiciones del Convenio de la Unión Postal Universal y su Reglamento. Lo que a su vez, no esté consignado en estos últimos, será materia de arreglos especiales entre las Administraciones interesadas .
2. Igualmente, la legislación interior de los dichos países se aplicará en todo aquello que no haya sido previsto por ambos Convenios.
ARTICULO 27
Proposiciones para los Congresos Universales
Todos los países que forman la Unión Postal de las Américas y España, se comunicarán, por conducto de la Oficina Internacional de Montevideo, las proposiciones que formulen para los Congresos Postales Universales, con seis meses de anticipación a la fecha en que deban celebrarse.
ARTICULO 28

Unidad de acción en los Congresos Postales Universales
Los países signatarios del Convenio Postal Américoespañol, que hubieren ratificado el mismo o lo hubieren puesto en vigencia administrativamente, se obligan a dar instrucciones a sus Delegados ante los Congresos Postales Universales, para que sostengan, unánime y firmemente, todos los principios establecidos en la Unión Postal de las

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946
Américas y España y para que voten también de acuerdo con estos postulados , exceptuándose tan sólo los casos en que las proposiciones a debate afecten exclusivamente a los países proponentes.
ARTICULO 29
Conferencias previas
1. Para los efectos del artículo anterior, los Delegados de los países que integran la Unión Postal de las Américas y España ante los Congresos Postales Universales, deberán reunirse en la ciudad designada como sede de éstos, quince días antes de la fecha de la inauguración de los mismos , para celebrar una Conferencia previa en la que se determinen los procedimientos de acción conjunta a seguir.
2. Con la debida anticipación a la reunión de los Congresos Universales, la Oficina Internacional de Montevideo invitará a las Administraciones signatarias para celebrar la Conferencia previa a que alude el parágrafo anterior, debiendo organizarla y estar presente en ella el Director de la Oficina Internacional de Montevideo , con el personal de la misma que considere necesario.
ARTICULO 30
Nuevas adhesiones
En caso de nueva adhesión, el Gobierno de la República Oriental del Uruguay, de común acuerdo con la Oficina Internacional de Montevideo y el Gobierno del país interesado , determinará el grupo en el cual debe ser aquél incluído , a los efectos del reparto de los gastos de la Oficina Internacional.
ARTICULO 31
Vigencia y duración del Convenio y depósito de las ratificaciones
1. El presente Convenio empezará a regir el primero de enero de 1947 y quedará en vigencia sin limitación de tiempo , reservándose cada una de las Partes Contratantes el derecho de retirarse de esta Unión, mediante aviso dado por su Gobierno al de la República Oriental del Uruguay, con un año de anticipación .
2. El depósito de las ratificaciones se hará en la ciudad de Río de Janeiro, República de los Estados Unidos del Brasil, en el más breve plazo posible, procurándose que sea antes de la vigencia del Convenio y Acuerdo a que se refieran ; y de cada una de aquéllas se levantará el Acta respectiva , cuya copia remitirá el Gobierno de la República del Brasil, por la vía diplomática, a los Gobiernos de los demás países signatarios .
3. Quedan derogadas , a partir de la fecha en que entre en vigor el presente Convenio , las estipulaciones del Convenio Postal de las Américas y España suscrito en Panamá el 22 de Diciembre de 1936 .
4. En el caso de que el Convenio no fuere ratificado por uno o varios de los países contratantes, no dejará de ser válido para los que lo hayan ratificado .
5. Los Países Contratantes podrán ratificar el Convenio y los Acuerdos, provisionalmente, por correspondencia, dando aviso de ello

3491

3492

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
a las Administraciones respectivas por medio de la Oficina Internacional, sin perjuicio de que, según la legislación de cada país , y previa aprobación de los Congresos Nacionales, sea confirmada por vía diplomática.
En fe de lo resuelto, los Plenipotenciarios de los Gobiernos de los países arriba citados, suscriben el presente Convenio en la ciudad de Río de Janeiro, República de los Estados Unidos del Brasil, a los 25 días del mes de setiembre de 1946 .
Por ARGENTINA : OSCAR L. M. NICOLINI CARLOS M. LASCANO MANUEL PRECEDO DOMINGO B. CANALLE
Por BOLIVIA : José LIÉVANA FORRASTAL RAFAEL BARRIENTOS
Por BRASIL : RAÚL DE ALBUQUERQUE CARLOS LUIS TAVEIRA JAIME SLOAN CHERMONT AUREO MAIA JAIME DÍAS FRANÇA JOAQUIM VIANNA JULIO SÁNCHEZ PÉREZ CARLOS F. DE FIGUEIREDO
Por CANADA : WALTER JAMES TURNBULL Cnel. EDWARD JAMES UNDERWOOD, O.B.E. FRANCIS EVERETT JOLLIFFE, M.B.E.
Por COLOMBIA : LUIS GARCÍA CADENA LUIS JORGE GARZÓN
Por COSTA RICA : ROBERTO TINOCO GUTIÉRREZ
Por CUBA : GABRIEL LANDA Y CHAO JESÚS LAGO LUNAR
Por CHILE : LUIS FELIPE LASO MIGUEL A. PARRA GUILLERMO JIMÉNEZ MORGAN
Por ECUADOR : RAFAEL ALVARADO

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946
Por EL SALVADOR : Coronel CARLOS MEJÍA OSORIO
Por ESPAÑA : LUIS RODRÍGUEZ DE Miguel ELÍAS URDANGARAIN BERNACH
Por ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA : JOHN J. GILLEN EDWARD J. MAHONEY
Por ESTADOS UNIDOS DE VENEZUELA :
PABLO CAStro BecerrA FRANCISCO VELEZ SALAS CARLOS HARTMANN Por GUATEMALA: FLAVIO HERRERA Por HAITI : LUIS MORAIS JUNIOR Por HONDURAS : MARCO ANTONIO BATRES MANUEL SOTO DE PONTES CAMARA Por MEXICO : ANTONIO VILLALOBOS DIDIER DOMÍNGUEZ VALDÉS LAURO F. RAMÍREZ UMAÑA Por NICARAGUA : JOSÉ MERCEDES PALMA Por PANAMA : CATALINO ARROCHA GRAELL JULIO TRELLES ROQUE JAVIER LAURENZA Por PARAGUAY : ANÍBAL IBARRA G. Por PERU : GERMÁN LLosa Pardo ERNESTO CÁCERES BOLUARTE Por República DOMINICANA : MIGUEL ANTONIO OLAVARRIETA PÉREZ Por URUGUAY: ENRIQUE E. BUERO MIGUEL AGUERRE ARISTEGUI CÉSAR I. Rossi

3493

3494

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

PROTOCOLO FINAL DEL CONVENIO
En el momento de firmar el Convenio celebrado por el V Congreso Postal Américo español , los Plenipotenciarios que suscriben han convenido lo siguiente :
I Los Estados Unidos de América se reservan el derecho , con carácter transitorio , de mantener sus tarifas actuales para los países de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España, que puedan ser más elevadas que las de su régimen interno .
II
Con relación al artículo 28 del Convenio , el Canadá y los Estados Unidos de América se reservan completa libertad de acción en los Congresos de la Unión Postal Universal.
III
El Canadá formula una reserva en el sentido de que no puede aceptar las disposiciones de los incisos d) y e ) del parágrafo 1 del artículo 13 y de los parágrafos 3 y 4 del mismo artículo.
IV
La República de Panamá hace una reserva transitoria al artículo 3 del Convenio en cuanto se refiere a buques que no transporten su propia correspondencia hasta tanto se encuentre en condiciones legales que le permitan darle efectivo cumplimiento.
V
El Canadá formula una reserva en el sentido de que las disposiciones del artículo 8 no son aplicables al Canadá.
Por ARGENTINA : OSCAR L. M. NICOLINI CARLOS M. LASCANO MANUEL PRECEDO DOMINGO B. CANALLE
Por BOLIVIA : JOSÉ LIÉVANA FORRASTAL RAFAEL BARRIENTOS

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946
Por BRASIL : RAÚL DE ALBUQUERQUE CARLOS LUIS TAVEIRA JAIME SLOAN CHERMONT AUREO MAIA JAIME DÍAS FRANÇA JOAQUIM VIANNA JULIO SÁNCHEZ PÉREZ CARLOS F. DE FIGUEIREDO
Por CANADA : WALTER JAMES TURNBULL Cnel. EDWARD JAMES UNDERWOOD, O.B.E. FRANCIS EVERETT JOLLIFFE, M.B.E.
Por COLOMBIA : LUIS GARCÍA CADENA LUIS JORGE GARZÓN
Por COSTA RICA: ROBERTO TINOCO GUTIÉRREZ
Por CUBA : GABRIEL LANDA Y CHAO JESÚS LAGO LUNAR
Por CHILE : LUIS FELIPE LASO MIGUEL A. PARRA GUILLERMO JIMÉNEZ MORGAN
Por ECUADOR : RAFAEL ALVARADO
Por EL SALVADOR : Coronel CARLOS MEJÍA OSORIO
Por ESPAÑA: LUIS RODRÍGUEZ de MIGUEL ELÍAS URDANGARAIN BERNACH
Por ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA: JOHN J. GILLEN EDWARD J. MAHONEY
Por ESTADOS UNIDOS DE VENEZUELA : PABLO CASTRO BECERRA FRANCISCO VELEZ SALAS CARLOS HARTMANN

3495

3496

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Por GUATEMALA : FLAVIO HERRERA
Por HAITI : LUIS MORAIS JUNIOR
Por HONDURAS : MARCO ANTONIO BATRES MANUEL SOTO DE PONTES CAMARA
Por MEXICO: ANTONIO VILLALOBOS DIDIER DOMmínguez VaLDÉS LAURO F. RAMÍREZ UMAÑA
Por NICARAGUA : José MERCEDES PALMA
Por PANAMA : CATALINO ARROCHA GRAELL JULIO TRELLES ROQUE JAVIER LAURENZA
Por PARAGUAY : ANÍBAL IBARRA G.
Por PERU: GERMÁN LLOSA PARDO ERNESTO CÁCERES BOLUARTE
Por República DOMINICANA : MIGUEL ANTONIO OLAVARRIETA PÉREZ
Por URUGUAY : ENRIQUE E. BUERO MIGUEL AGUERRE ARISTEGUI CÉSAR I. ROSSI

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946

3497

REGLAMENTO DE EJECUCION DEL CONVENIO DE LA UNION POSTAL DE LAS AMERICAS Y ESPAÑA
celebrado entre :
Argentina, Bolivia, Brasil, Canadá , Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Chile, Ecuador, El Salvador, España , Estados Unidos de América, Estados Unidos de Venezuela, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, México , Nicaragua, Panamá, Paraguay, Perú, República Dominicana y Uruguay .
Los infrascritos, en nombre de las Administraciones que representan, han aprobado las siguientes reglas para asegurar la ejecución del Convenio precedente:
ARTICULO 101
Intercambio de despachos
1. Las Administraciones de los países contratantes podrán expedirse recíprocamente, por mediación de una o varias de ellas, tanto despachos cerrados como correspondencia al descubierto , en las condiciones fijadas en el Convenio y Reglamento de la Unión Postal Universal.
2. En los casos de reencaminamiento, los países contratantes se comprometen a reexpedir la correspondencia por las vías y conductos más rápidos que utilicen para sus propios envíos . El transporte será gratuito cuando se trate de servicios que dependan de su Administración, pero podrán percibir de la de origen las mismas cantidades que estén obligados a pagar cuando , para el transporte ulterior de los despachos cerrados, se requieran servicios de Administraciones extrañas, a las cuales deban satisfacer aquellos gastos .
3. Cuando las Administraciones intermediarias de que trata el parágrafo anterior hayan de percibir de las de origen cantidades por haber utilizado para transporte ulterior servicios de Administraciones extrañas , deberán confeccionar las cuentas de estos gastos sin rebasar, en ningún caso, los derechos que fija el Convenio de la Unión Postal Universal y con arreglo a las normas establecidas en su Reglamento de Ejecución.
ARTICULO 102
Tarifas internas y equivalencias Las Administraciones se comunicarán a la mayor brevedad posible por conducto de la Oficina Internacional de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España, cualquier modificación de su tarifa interna, así como la equivalencia de dicha tarifa en francos oro.

3498

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
ARTICULO 103
Formación de despachos . - Sacos vacíos
1. Los despachos que contengan la correspondencia de intercambio entre dos países de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España , se confeccionarán con arreglo a lo dispuesto en el Reglamento de Ejecución del Convenio de la Unión Postal Universal .
2. Los sacos utilizados por las Administraciones contratantes para el envío de la correspondencia , se devolverán vacíos por las oficinas de cambio destinatarias a las de origen en la forma prescrita por el respectivo artículo de dicho Reglamento . Sin embargo , las Administraciones podrán ponerse de acuerdo con el fin de utilizarlos para el envío de la propia correspondencia.
ARTICULO 104
Pequeños paquetes 1. El acondicionamiento y envase de los pequeños paquetes se regirán por las mismas disposiciones establecidas para las muestras. Además, deberá figurar en su exterior el nombre y la dirección de los remitentes . 2. Será permitido incluir en estos objetos una factura abierta, reducida a sus enunciados constitutivos, o bien una simple copia del sobrescrito con indicación de la dirección del remitente. 3. Los paquetes , estén o no acompañados de declaración de aduana, deberán llevar siempre la etiqueta verde igual al modelo "C-1 " del Reglamento de Ejecución de la Unión Postal Universal .
ARTICULO 105 .
Valijas diplomáticas
1. Las valijas diplomáticas que intercambien los Ministerios de Relaciones Exteriores de los países de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España con sus representantes diplomáticos en otros países, en virtud de lo dispuesto por el artículo 13 del Convenio , no podrán pesar más de 20 kilos , ni exceder de los siguientes límites de dimensiones : largo, ancho y alto , sumados , 140 centímetros, sin que la dimensión mayor exceda de 60 centímetros .
2. Los Ministerios de Relaciones Exteriores y los representantes diplomáticos depositarán estas valijas en la Oficina de Correos, con carácter de certificadas. Dicha oficina anotará en la columna "Observaciones" de la lista especial de certificados las palabras "Valija diplomática " y el número de éstas , si fueren varias.
3. Dichas valijas estarán provistas de cerraduras, candados u otros medios de seguridad apropiados a la importancia de estos envíos.
4. Las valijas diplomáticas serán cursadas por las mismas vías que utilice la Administración expedidora para el envío de su correspondencia a la Administración de destino , anunciándose dicho envío por medio de una nota consignada en la hoja de aviso del despacho que las contenga.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946
5. Salvo acuerdo en contrario entre las partes interesadas, las valijas diplomáticas no se expedirán en franquicia por la vía aérea.
ARTICULO 106
Correspondencia diplomática y consular
La correspondencia diplomática y consular deberá llevar las siguientes indicaciones: el nombre de la Embajada , Legación o Consulado remitente y la inscripción , muy ostensible, de "Correspondencia diplomática" , o "Correspondencia consular " , además de la declaración "Libre de porte" , que constará debajo de aquella inscripción.
ARTICULO 107
Estadística de derechos de tránsito
Como consecuencia de la gratuidad del tránsito a que se refiere el artículo 3 del Convenio, las Administraciones de los países contratantes no efectuarán ninguna operación de estadística de derechos de tránsito , en relación con aquellos despachos que sólo contengan correspondencia américoespañola, siempre que esta correspondencia se curse sin la mediación de países o servicios extraños a la Unión Postal de las Américas y España .
ARTICULO 108
Constitución de la Oficina Internacional 1. El Director de la Oficina Internacional será nombrado por el Gobierno de la República Oriental del Uruguay, a propuesta de la Dirección General de Correos de dicho país, y gozará de la retribución mensual de 900 pesos moneda nacional uruguaya. El Subdirector - Secretario General, el Oficial de Secretaría , el Oficial - Traductor y demás personal de la Oficina serán nombrados, a propuesta del Director de la Oficina Internacional, por la Dirección General de Correos del Uruguay. Se fija, en moneda nacional uruguaya, el sueldo mensual del Subdirector- Secretario General, en 700 pesos ; el del Oficial de Secretaría, en 500 pesos ; el del OficialTraductor en 350 pesos ; el de dos auxiliares, en 200 pesos cada uno y, el de un Portero , en 150 pesos . Dicho personal sólo podrá ser removido de sus cargos con la intervención de la Dirección General de Correos del Uruguay y con arreglo a los procedimientos que a tal efecto rijan para los empleados fijos de la propia Dirección . 2. El Director de la Oficina Internacional concurrirá a los Congresos y Conferencias de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España, a los efectos del cumplimiento de lo dispuesto por los artículos 21 y 29 del Convenio y asistirá a las sesiones, pudiendo tomar parte en las discusiones, sin derecho a voto . 3. El idioma oficial de la Oficina Internacional es el español. No obstante, los países cuyo idioma no fuere éste, podrán usar el propio en sus relaciones con ella.

3499

3500

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
ARTICULO 109
Jubilaciones y pensiones
Las pensiones y jubilaciones del personal de la Oficina Internacional de Montevideo serán pagadas exclusivamente del fondo propio que, para tal objeto, tiene destinada dicha Oficina y que se forma con la contribución de todos los países de la Unión . Las condiciones y el monto de esas jubilaciones y pensiones se sujetarán a las leyes sobre la materia vigentes en el Uruguay para sus propios funcionarios y empleados .
ARTICULO 110
Cuentas y gastos de la Oficina Internacional
1. Los gastos de la Oficina Internacional no podrán exceder de la cantidad de 55.000 pesos moneda nacional uruguaya por año , incluyéndose en dicha cantidad la constitución de un fondo para jubilación del personal de la misma.
2. Para la distribución de los gastos anuales y extraordinarios de la Oficina, los países se dividen en tres grupos, correspondiendo contribuir a los del primero con ocho unidades, a los del segundo con cuatro y a los del tercero con dos unidades.
Pertenecen al primer grupo: Argentina, Brasil, Canadá, España, Estados Unidos de América y Uruguay ; al segundo grupo : Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Chile, Estados Unidos de Venezuela , México , Panamá y Perú ; al tercer grupo : Bolivia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haití, Honduras, Nicaragua, Paraguay y República Dominicana .
ARTICULO 111
Informaciones. - Peticiones de modificación de Actas
La Oficina Internacional estará siempre a disposición de las partes contratantes para facilitarles cuantos informes especiales requieran sobre asuntos relativos al servicio de Correos américoespañol y dará curso a las peticiones de modificación o de interpretación de las disposiciones que rijan la Unión Postal de las Américas y España, notificando el resultado de cada gestión.
ARTICULO 112
Publicaciones
1. La Oficina Internacional de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España dirigirá una circular especial, cuando una Administración solicite la inmediata publicación de algún cambio que haya introducido en sus servicios, y asimismo distribuirá, gratuitamente, entre las Administraciones de los países contratantes y enviará a la Oficina Internacional de Berna, los documentos que publique, debiendo remitir a cada Administración el número de ejemplares que le corresponda, en proporción a las unidades con que contribuye.
Los ejemplares suplementarios de los documentos que soliciten las Administraciones serán abonados por ellas a precio de coste.
2. La Oficina Internacional repartirá entre los países contratantes

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION-SEPT. 25, 1946
las proposiciones que reciba, conforme a lo que establece el artículo 27 del Convenio . Al efecto , todos los países de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España darán a conocer, por conducto de la misma Oficina y con la debida oportunidad , según se establece en el Convenio, las proposiciones que formulen para los Congresos Universales, con el fin de que tales iniciativas sean apoyadas por el conjunto de dichos países .
ARTICULO 113
Documentos e informes que se remitirán a la Oficina Internacional
1. La Oficina Internacional servirá de intermediaria para las notificaciones regulares y generales que interesen exclusivamente a las Administraciones de los países contratantes.
Las referidas Administraciones deberán enviar regular y oportunamente a la Oficina Internacional :
a) La Legislación postal y sus modificaciones sucesivas ; b) La Guía postal , cada vez que sea editada; c) Los mapas y guías de las comunicaciones postales que utilicen ,
tanto para el servicio interno como para el internacional ; d) Un informe sobre las vías terrestres y marítimas más rápidas
que puedan utilizarse para el intercambio de correspondencia ; e) Los resultados de su estadística postal anual y del movimiento
con los demás países américoespañoles ; f) El texto de las proposiciones que someten a la consideración
de los Congresos Postales Universales ; g) Los datos de toda clase que interesen al servicio postal améri-
coespañol , cada vez que dicten alguna nueva disposición ; h) Todos los informes que solicite la propia Oficina Internacional
para las publicaciones, memorias y demás asuntos de su competencia, en forma tal que permitan la ejecución de su cometido en el más breve plazo ; i) Un cuadro en que figuren detalladamente todos los servicios marítimos dependientes de los países de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España , que puedan ser utilizados gratuitamente por los demás para el transporte de su correspondencia ; j) Las variaciones que se operen en las equivalencias tan pronto como se produzcan ; k) Tres ejemplares de los sellos postales que emitan y de las impresiones - tipo de sus máquinas franqueadoras, con copia de la respectiva disposición de emisión .
2. Toda modificación ulterior será comunicada sin demora.
ARTICULO 114 Modificaciones en el intervalo de las reuniones de los Congresos
1. En el intervalo de los Congresos , las Administraciones tendrán derecho a formular proposiciones relativas al presente Reglamento, siguiendo el procedimiento indicado en el Convenio de la Unión Postal Universal.
95347-50-PT. IV- 11

3501

3502

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
2. Para que tales proposiciones tengan fuerza ejecutiva , deberán reunir los dos tercios de los votos emitidos .
ARTICULO 115
Aplicación del Convenio Postal Universal y de la Legislación interna En todo lo no previsto en este Reglamento con relación al cambio de
correspondencia entre los países contratantes se aplicarán las disposiciones del Reglamento del Convenio de la Unión Postal Universal y, en su defecto , la legislación interior de aquellos países .
ARTICULO 116
Vigencia y duración del Reglamento El presente Reglamento empezará a regir en la misma fecha que el Convenio a que se refiere, y tendrá igual duración que éste. En la ciudad de Río de Janeiro , República de los Estados Unidos del Brasil, a los veinticinco días del mes de setiembre de 1946.
Por ARGENTINA : OSCAR L. M. NICOLINI CARLOS M. LASCANO MANUEL PRECEDO DOMINGO B. CANALLE
Por BOLIVIA : JOSÉ LIÉVANA FORRASTAL RAFAEL BARRIENTOS
Por BRASIL : RAUL DE ALBUQUERQUE CARLOS LUIS TAVEIRA JAIME SLOAN CHERMONT AUREO MAIA JAIME DÍAS FRANÇA JOAQUIM VIANNA JULIO SÁNCHEZ PÉREZ Carlos F. de FigueireDO
Por CANADA: WALTER JAMES TURNBULL Cnel. EDWARD JAMES UNDERWOOD, O.B.E. FRANCIS EVERETT JOLLIFFE, M.B.E.
Por COLOMBIA : LUIS GARCÍA CADENA LUIS JORGE GARZÓN
Por COSTA RICA: ROBERTO TINOCO GUTIÉRREZ
Por CUBA: GABRIEL LANDA Y CHAO JESÚS LAGO LUNAR

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946
Por CHILE : LUIS FELIPE LASO MIGUEL A. PARRA GUILLERMO JIMÉNEZ MORGAN
Por ECUADOR : RAFAEL ALVARADO
Por EL SALVADOR : Coronel CARLOS MEJÍA OSORIO
Por ESPAÑA : LUIS RODRÍGUEZ DE MIGUEL ELÍAS URDANGARAIN BERNACH
Por ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA : JOHN J. GILLEN EDWARD J. MAHONEY
Por ESTADOS UNIDOS DE VENEZUELA : PABLO CASTRO BECERRA FRANCISCO VELEZ SALAS CARLOS HARTMANN
Por GUATEMALA : FLAVIO HERRERA
Por HAITI : LUIS MORAIS JUNIOR
Por HONDURAS : MARCO ANTONIO BATRES MANUEL SOTO DE PONTES CAMARA
Por MEXICO : ANTONIO VILLALOBOS DIDIER DOMÍNGUEZ VALDÉS LAURO F. RAMÍREZ UMAÑA
Por NICARAGUA : José MERCEDES PALMA
Por PANAMA : CATALINO ARROCHA GRAELL JULIO TRELLES ROQUE JAVIER Laurenza
Por PARAGUAY : ANÍBAL IBARRA G.
Por PERU: GERMÁN LLOSA PARDO ERNESTO CÁCERES BOLUARTE
Por República DOMINICANA : MIGUEL ANTONIO OLAVARRIETA PÉREZ

3503

3504

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
Por URUGUAY : ENRIQUE E. BUERO MIGUEL AGUERRE ARISTEGUI CÉSAR I. Rossi

Having examined and considered the provisions of the foregoing

Convention, the Final Protocol thereto, and the Regulations of Exe-

cution of that Convention, signed in the city of Rio de Janeiro, the

United States of Brazil , on the twenty-fifth day of September, 1946,

the same are by me, by virtue of the powers vested by law in the

Postmaster General, hereby ratified and approved , by and with the advice and consent of the President of the United States .

In witness whereof, I have caused the seal of the Post Office De-

partment of the United States to be hereto affixed this 20th day of

February, 1947. [ SEAL]

ROBERT E HANNEGAN Postmaster General.

I hereby approve the foregoing Convention, the Final Protocol thereto , and the Regulations of Execution of that Convention.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have caused the Seal of the United

States to be hereunto affixed .

[SEAL]

HARRY S TRUMAN

By the President: G C MARSHALL

Secretary of State.

WASHINGTON, February 27, 1947.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946

3505

Translation prepared by the Post Office Department POSTAL UNION OF THE AMERICAS AND SPAIN

CONVENTION concluded between

Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil , Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Chile, the Dominican Republic , Ecuador, El Salvador, Spain, the United States of America, the United States of Venezuela , Guatemala, Haiti , Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay .
The undersigned , Plenipotentiaries of the Governments of the countries enumerated, assembled in Congress in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Republic of the United States of Brazil , in exercise of the right granted them by the Convention of the Universal Postal Union in force, and inspired by the desire to extend , facilitate and perfect their postal relations and establish a solidarity of action capable of representing effectively in Universal Postal Congresses their common interests in regard to communications by mail, have determined to conclude, ad referendum, the following Convention:

54 Stat. 2049.

ARTICLE 1

Postal Union of the Americas and Spain
The contracting countries, in accordance with the foregoing declaration, constitute, under the name of Postal Union of the Americas and Spain, a single postal territory.

ARTICLE 2

Restricted Unions

1. The contracting countries, whether on account of their adjacent location or on account of the intensity of their postal relations , may establish closer unions among themselves, with a view to the reduction of rates or the introduction of other improvements in any of the services referred to in the present Convention or in the special Agreements concluded by this Congress .
2. Likewise, concerning matters not provided for in the present Convention, or in that of the Universal Postal Union, the signatory countries may adopt among themselves such resolutions as they deem convenient, through correspondence, or, if necessary, by establishing a special Agreement, in accordance with the authorization conferred upon them by the present Article or their domestic legislation.

Special agreements. 54 Stat. 2049.

3506

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

ARTICLE 3

Reforwarding.

Free and gratuitous transit
1. The gratuity of territorial, fluvial and maritime transit is absolute in the territory of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain ; consequently, the countries which form it obligate themselves to transport across their territories , and to convey by the ships of their registry or flag, without any charge whatsoever to the contracting countries, all correspondence which the latter send to any destination .
2. In case of reforwarding, the contracting countries are bound to reforward the correspondence by the ways and means which they utilize for their own dispatches.
ARTICLE 4

Convention and Agreements of the Union

Articles of correspondence

Post, p. 3518.

1. The provisions of this Convention and its Regulations of Execu-

tion will regulate all matters and services relative to correspondence .

2. The other services will be governed by the Agreements of this

Union, by those which the countries may sign among themselves on

the subject, or, in their absence, by those of the Universal Postal

"Articles of correspondence."

Union . 3. The denomination " articles of correspondence" applies to letters,
single and reply post cards, commercial papers, prints, raised print

for the use of the blind, samples of merchandise, small packets , and

phonopostal articles .

4. The exchange of small packets and phonopostal articles will be restricted to the countries which agree to execute it, either in their reciprocal relations or in only one direction.

ARTICLE 5

Storage charge.

Postage rates
1. The postage rates of the domestic service of each country will govern in the relations of the countries which constitute the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain, except when said domestic rates are higher than those applicable to correspondence destined for countries of the Universal Postal Union , in which case the latter will govern.
2. The international rates will also govern when it is a question of services which do not exist in the domestic regime.
3. For small packets the rate will govern which is determined in Article 6 of this Convention .
4. The contracting Powers may fix a storage charge, upon previous agreement among the interested Administrations, for printed matter , when they deem it desirable.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946

3507

ARTICLE 6

Small packets
1. In the optional service of small packets mentioned in Article 4 of this Convention, no article may weigh more than one kilogram, or contain objects whose mercantile value at the place where they are mailed exceeds the value of 10 gold francs or the equivalent thereof in money of the country of origin .
2. Administrations which execute the service of small packets regulated by the Universal Convention will not be obliged to observe, in their reciprocal relations, any provision in conflict with the respective stipulations of said Convention .
3. Small packets of any kind exchanged between countries of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain, in view of the fact that they are not liable to payment of transit charges, will be prepaid at the rates adopted in each country for parcels in its domestic service, or the Administrations may apply to such small packets the rates prescribed by the Universal Postal Convention.
4. The Administrations of destination may submit small packets to customs handling in accordance with the provisions of their domestic legislation .
5. The Administrations of the countries of destination may collect from the addressees of small packets :

Weight, etc.
Rates. 54 Stat. 2049. Customs handling. Collection of fees.

a) A fee of 40 centimes of a gold franc at most for the opera-

tions, formalities and handling involved in customs clearance ;

b) A fee which will not exceed 15 centimes of a gold franc for

the delivery of each packet ; that fee will be increased to 30 centimes

of a gold franc at most in case of delivery at the addressee's residence.

6. When small packets are considered by the customs of the country deNloinvaepryplfiecesa.bility of

of destination as exempt from payment of customs duties , the delivery fees provided for in paragraph (b) of Section 5 of this Article will

not be applicable.

ARTICLE 7

Reply coupons
1. Under the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain, the sellingprice to the public of reply coupons shall be fixed by the interested Administration, but may not be lower than the equivalent of 15 centimes of a gold franc in the money of the country which issues them.
2. Each coupon is exchangeable, in any of the countries which form the Union, for a stamp or stamps representing the postage on an ordinary letter originating in the same country destined for another country of the Union . The period of validity of the coupon is unlimited .
3. Reply coupons will be printed by the International Office of Montevideo and will be furnished to the Administrations of the Union at cost.
4. In the settlement of accounts among the Administrations the value of the reply coupons will be calculated at the rate of 15 centimes of a gold franc per unit .

Selling price, etc.

3508

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT .

5. When the annual balance in the relations between two Administrations is not more than 10 gold francs , the debtor Administration will be exempt from any payment.
6. Administrations will be allowed to refuse to sell reply coupons, although their exchange is obligatory.
7. When the settlement of accounts arising from the exchange of Americo-Spanish reply coupons is not effected directly between the Administrations concerned, the International Office of Montevideo will act as intermediary. In this case, it will make up an annual statement of debtor and creditor Administrations , in accordance with the respective provisions of the Universal Postal Union.

ARTICLE 8

54 Stat. 2049, 2105.

Return, reforwarding or change of address
The provisions of the Convention of the Universal Postal Union and its Regulations of Execution relative to the requests for return or change of address and reforwarding will govern in the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain ; such requests , however, will be deemed out of order after the Administration of destination has sent the articles to the jurisdiction of the Customs.

ARTICLE 9

Registered correspondence

Responsibility
Fee. 1. The articles designated in Article 4 may be sent under registra-
tion upon payment of a fee equal to that established in the domestic

54 Stat. 2049. Loss of articles.

service of the country of origin, except when the domestic fee is higher than that applicable under the Universal Postal Convention , in which case the latter will govern.
2. Save in cases of force majeure, the contracting Administrations

will be responsible for the loss of every registered article . The

sender will be entitled to an indemnity which may in no case exceed

ten gold francs or the equivalent thereof in money of the country

which must pay it, being able, however, to request a smaller indemnity. 3. Administrations will be relieved of responsibility for loss of

registered articles whose contents fall under the prohibitions of the

Universal Postal Convention, or which are prohibited by the laws

and regulations of the country of origin or of destination, provided

Registers without right to indemnity.

that said countries have given due notice by the usual means. 4. There is maintained , as optional , a special category of registers
without right to indemnity, applicable to the articles of correspondence referred to in Section 3 of Article 4 of this Convention . The Admin-

istrations which put this service into effect are obliged to communicate the fact to the International Office by the most rapid means , so that it may circularize the information among the other countries . Articles to which a reduced registry is applicable will be endorsed on the reverse side with the letters "S. I." (without indemnity) and a similar notation will be made in the descriptive lists , in the "Observations" column, as well as on inquiries made in order to determine the whereabouts of the matter.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946

3509

5. Administrations which adopt, in a general manner, a reduced registration fee for all articles other than letters and post cards, will not be obliged to observe the formalities prescribed by the last part of the preceding Section.

ARTICLE 10

Inquiries
Complaints or requests for information regarding any article will be charged with a fee equal to that established in the domestic regimes of the contracting powers, except when such domestic fee is higher than that established by the Universal Postal Convention , in which case the latter will govern.

54 Stat. 2049.

ARTICLE 11

Articles subject to customs clearance
1. The application of the label , C- 1 , established by the Universal Postal Convention, to articles of correspondence whose contents are subject to customs duties in the country of destination, is obligatory. The use of the declaration , C-2, is optional for the aforementioned articles .
2. Nevertheless, for unsealed matter, except small packets , the use of neither of the documents mentioned in the foregoing Section is obligatory , without prejudice to customs clearance by the country of destination .

54 Stat. 2111.

ARTICLE 12

Weight and dimensions
1. The limits of weight and dimensions of articles of correspondence will conform to those fixed by the Universal Postal Convention, with the exception of prints whose weight can attain 5 kilograms, or even as much as 10 kilograms when it is a question of works in a single volume. However, articles with a weight greater than 5 , but not exceeding 10 kilograms will be accepted even when it is not a question of works in a single volume, if previous agreement is made between the Administrations concerned.
2. Articles in roll form , when it is a question of indivisible objects , may measure as much as 120 centimeters , adding their length to the diameters of both bases, but the greatest dimension may not exceed 100 centimeters .

54 Stat. 2049. Articles in roll form.

ARTICLE 13

Franking privilege
1. The contracting parties agree to grant the franking privilege, in their domestic service and in the Americo-Spanish service :
a) To correspondence relative to the postal service exchanged between Administrations of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain ; between these Administrations and the International Office of Montevideo ; between the same Administrations and the Transfer

3510

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Office of Panama ; between the latter and the aforesaid International Office ; between post offices of Americo-Spanish countries and between these offices and the Postal Administrations of the countries mentioned ;
b) To correspondence of members of the Diplomatic Corps of the signatory countries ;
c) To official correspondence which Consuls and Vice-Consuls acting as Consuls, send to their respective countries ; to that which they exchange among themselves ; to that which they address to the authorities of the country in which they are accredited , and to that which they exchange with their respective Embassies and Legations, whenever reciprocity exists ;
d) The franking privilege will be enjoyed by newspapers , periodical publications , books , pamphlets, and other prints sent by publishers or authors to Information Offices established by Postal Administrations of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain, as well as those sent free of charge to libraries and other national cultural centers officially recognized by the Governments of the countries forming this Union ;
e) To official correspondence sent and received by the Pan American Union in Washington.

2. The correspondence referred to by paragraphs (a) , (b) and (c)

of the preceding Section may also be sent free of postage under regis-

Central Governments of countries of
the Postal Union.

tration , but without right to indemnity. 3. Official correspondence of the Central Governments of the
countries of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain which circulates free in their domestic services under their domestic legislation is

admitted to the same franking privilege in the country of destination

without the collection of any charge therefor, whenever strict reci-

procity is observed .

National Commissions of Intellectual 4. The franking privilege will also be enjoyed by correspondence

Cooperation .

of National Commissions of Intellectual Cooperation set up under the

auspices of the Governments in accordance with the Pan American

and Universal Conventions in force.

Correspondence between Secretariats of

5. The exchange of correspondence of the Diplomatic Corps , be-

bSatsastieesa, netdc.their Em- tween the Secretariats of State of the respective countries and their

Embassies or Legations will have a reciprocal character among the

contracting countries and will be effected in open mail or by means of

Post, p. 3520.

diplomatic pouches, in accordance with the provisions of Article 105 of the Regulations of Execution. These pouches will enjoy the frank-

ing privilege and all safeguards of official dispatches .

6. The franking privilege dealt with in the present Article will not

affect the air service or other special services existing in the Americo-

Spanish regime or in the domestic services of the contracting countries.

ARTICLE 14

Reduction of rates
Correspondence exchanged by schools, Articles of correspondence other than small packets exchanged by etc.
administrations of schools of the countries of the Postal Union of the

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946

3511

Americas and Spain , or among the students of the same through their directors will enjoy a 50 % reduction in the ordinary rate so long as their weight does not exceed 1 kilogram and they satisfy the other conditions for their postal classification.
ARTICLE 15
Special services
The High Contracting Parties may, on the basis of special agreements or by correspondence , extend to the other countries of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain such postal services as they carry on or may in the future establish within their respective countries.
ARTICLE 16

Service forms sent by air mail

1. The forms provided for in the Regulations of Execution of the Universal Postal Convention for requests for the withdrawal of cor-

54 Stat. 2105.

respondence or change of address , as well as those provided for in-

quiries regarding articles of correspondence and requests for information, may be dispatched by air mail.
2. To this end the Forms C- 11 , C-12 and C-13 will be differentiated in the following manner : blue color for those which must be forwarded

54 Stat. 2141 , 2142, 2143 .

by air mail and pink for those which must be also answered by air mail. 3. The forwarding by air will give rise to the collection of a sup-

Supplementary fee.

plementary fee which the sender will pay when he fills out his form.

It will be the equivalent to the postage for an air mail letter of 5 grams to the country of destination or to double this rate if a prepaid

reply by air is requested . These payments will accrue exclusively to the country which collects them.

ARTICLE 17

Official language

Spanish is adopted as the official language for matters relative to

the postal service . Nevertheless , countries whose language is not

this may use their own.

ARTICLE 18

Protection and exchange of postal functionaries 1. The Administrations of the contracting countries will be obliged traCcotoipnegrcaotuinotnrioefs.con-
to lend mutually, upon request, the cooperation required by their employees charged with the transportation of correspondence in transit through such countries. Likewise, they will furnish all manner of facilities to such functionaries as one Administration may agree to
send to any other to carry on studies regarding the development and perfection of postal services.
Agreements respect2. The Administrations through the intermediary of the Inter- ing functionaries. national Office of Montevideo, will come to agreements to effect an exchange of functionaries.
Notwithstanding what has been established previously, the Administrations may also make agreements to send functionaries for

3512

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Expenses.

apprenticeship or instruction without its being required that an interchange of functionaries take place.
3. Once that the exchange or unilateral assignment of functionaries provided for by the preceding Sections is agreed upon between two or more Administrations , the latter will decide upon the manner in which the relative expenses are to be shared, and , when they consider it necessary, upon the initiative and through the intermediary of the International Office of Montevideo.

ARTICLE 19

International Transfer Office

Continuation of Office in Republic of

1. There shall continue to exist in the Republic of Panama an

Panama .

International Transfer Office, which is charged with receiving and

forwarding all mail dispatches originating in Administrations of the

Union which do not have their own service in the Isthmus and which,

Functions .

upon passing in transit through the same, give rise to transfer operations .
2. Said Office will function in accordance with the Regulations agreed upon between the International Office of the Postal Union of

Amendments in Regulations.

the Americas and Spain and the Postal Administration of Panama. 3. Amendments which at any time may have to be made in the
aforesaid Regulations will be submitted by the Administrations concerned to the International Office at Montevideo for considera-

tion in order that they may be proposed to the Postal Administra-

Organization, etc.

tion of Panama through its mediation. 4. The organization and operation of the International Transfer

Office are subject to supervision and control by the Administration of Posts and Telegraphs of Panama and the International Office of the

Disputes.

Postal Union of the Americas and Spain with headquarters in Montevideo, upon which latter it is incumbent to act as mediator and

Personnel.

arbitrator in any dispute arising between the Postal Administration of Panama and countries which utilize the services of said Office.
5. The personnel attached to the service of the aforesaid Office

will be designated by the Administration of Posts and Telegraphs of Panama, and will be considered permanent, in accordance with

the provisions established by the Regulations of the Office concerning

it. They will enjoy the same rights and obligations which the postal

Expenses.

laws of the Republic of Panama establish for the employees of the Postal Services .
6. The expenses to which the maintenance of this Office gives

rise will be borne by the countries which utilize its services , divided

proportionally to the number of their own sacks which they exchange

through its intermediary.

Advances by Panama .

The Administration of Panama will advance the necessary funds for

the maintenance of prompt services by the Office.

Quarterly repayments .

Said amounts will be repaid quarterly by each Administration con-

cerned, but payments which are not made within a period of six

months from the date on which the debtor Administration received

the account submitted to it by the International Transfer Office,

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946

3513

will bear interest at the rate of 5% per year payable to the latter Office.
ARTICLE 20

Arbitration
Every conflict or disagreement arising in the postal relations of the contracting countries will be settled by arbitration, which will be effected in the manner prescribed by the Convention of the Universal Postal Union in force . The designation of arbitrators shall be incumbent upon the signatory countries , with the intervention of the International Office of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain, if necessary.
ARTICLE 21

International Office of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain

1. With the name of International Office of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain, there functions in Montevideo under the general supervision of the Administration of Posts of the Oriental

Republic of the Uruguay, a central Office which serves as an organ

of liaison, information and consultation for countries of the Union.

2. This Office will be charged with :

Responsibilities of Office.

a) Assembling, co-ordinating, publishing and distributing information of all kinds which specially concerns the AmericoSpanish postal service.
b) Giving, at the express request of the parties concerned, its opinion on disputed questions .
c) Giving, on its own initiative or at the request of any of the Administrations of the signatory countries, its opinion on all matters of a postal character which affect or relate to the general interests of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain.
d) Making known requests for modification of Acts of the Congress which are formulated , and giving notice of changes which are adopted .
e) Making known the results obtained from the regulatory provisions and measures of importance which the Administrations adopt in their domestic service, which are communicated to it by the same Administrations as information.
f) Distributing postal maps and guides which the respective Administrations send to it.
g) Making a summary of Americo -Spanish postal statistics , on the basis of data which each Administration communicates to it
annually , for which purpose a questionnaire with complete and detailed requests for postal statistical data in accordance with a scientific and rational plan, will be submitted to all Administrations .
h) Publishing a report relative to the most rapid routes for transmission of correspondence from one of the contracting countries to another.
i) Preparing a table giving in detail all maritime services dependent upon countries of the Postal Union of the Americas and

3514

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Ante, p. 3506,
Post, p. 3523. Ante, p. 3508.

Spain , which may be utilized gratuitously for the transportation of their correspondence, under the conditions laid down by Article 3 .
j ) Publishing the tariff of postage rates of the domestic service of each of the countries concerned .
k) Preparing a table of equivalents of the money of the countries concerned in gold francs and dollars.
1) Publishing and distributing among the countries of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain, annually, a report of the work which it performs .
m) Carrying out studies and works requested of it in the interest of the contracting countries , relative to work of social, economic and artistic cooperation for which purpose the International Office will always be at the disposal of the said countries , to furnish them any special information which they require on matters relative to the Americo-Spanish postal service.
n) Taking part and collaborating in the organization and convening of Congresses and Conferences of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain.
o) Distributing among the Administrations of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain the postal laws and regulations of each ; said Administrations accordingly being obligated to furnish the Office mentioned twenty-five copies of the laws and regulations in question.
p) Organizing a special section charged with collecting the stamps sent to the Administrations in compliance with Article 113 , Section 1 , paragraph (k) , of the Regulations of Execution , and centralizing philatelic information about the countries of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain .
q) Intervening as the compensating Administration in the liquidation of postal accounts, at the request of the Administrations concerned .
r) Preparing international insignia of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain consisting of an emblem for the personal use of the functionaries of the Administrations belonging to the Union .
s) Printing and furnishing the reply coupons provided for by paragraph 7 of Article 7.

3. The International Office of the Postal Union of the Americas

and Spain will also publish an official compilation of all the data

relative to the execution of the Convention and its Regulations in

each country which is of special interest to Americo-Spanish postal services, in accordance with the information submitted to it by the Administrations .

Post, pp. 3524, 3540. Special expenses.

The same Office will also publish similar compilations concerning the execution of the Agreements relative to Parcel Post and Money Orders .
4. The special expenses arising from the preparation of the Annual Report and the Table or Information concerning Postal Communications of the contracting countries , and those arising on account of

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946

3515

meetings of Congresses or Conferences, will be shared by the Administrations of said countries in accordance with the groups established in Article 110 of the Regulations of Execution .

Post, p. 3521.

The expenses in connection with the holding of such Congresses and Conferences will be fixed on each occasion by the Director Gen-

eral of Posts of the Oriental Republic of the Uruguay, by agreement with the International Office of Montevideo .
5. The Administration of Posts of Uruguay will supervise the expenses of the International Office of the Postal Union of the Ameri-

cas and Spain, and will make the advances which it requires. 6. The amounts advanced by the Administration of Uruguay in
accordance with the foregoing Section will be repaid by the debtor

Repayment of advances .

Administrations as soon as possible, and at the latest before six

months from the date on which the country concerned receives the

account formulated by the Director General of Posts of Uruguay. After that date, the amounts due will bear interest at the rate of

5% a year, counting from the date of expiration of the said period . 7. The contracting countries are bound to include in their budgets
an annual amount destined to take care promptly of the payment of their contributive quotas.

Contributive quotas.

ARTICLE 22

Congresses
1. The Congresses will meet not later than two years after the holding of each Universal Postal Congress . Nevertheless if the interval between the latter should exceed five years, the Administrations of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain may come to agree-
ment, through the intermediary of the International Office of Montevideo and by unanimity of votes, on an eventual meeting.
2. Each Congress will fix the place in which the next one shall convene.
ARTICLE 23

Meetings.

Resolutions of the Congress
The contracting powers will inform the International Office of Montevideo , three months in advance of the meeting of each Congress , of the measures it has taken to put into effect the resolutions and recommendations of each last Congress .

ARTICLE 24

Propositions in the interval between meetings
The present Convention may be modified in the interval between Congresses, following the procedure established inthe Universal Postal Convention in force. In order to become effective, modifications must obtain unanimity of votes for the present Article and Articles 1 , 2, 3 , 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 13 , 16 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 22, 24 , 25, 27, 28, 29 and 30 ; two-thirds of the votes for Articles 14 and 23 ; and a simple majority for the rest.

3516 Effective date.
54 Stat. 2049.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
ARTICLE 25
Modifications and amendments
Modifications or resolutions adopted by the High Contracting Parties, even those of a domestic order, which affect the international service, will become effective three months after the date of the relative notice of the International Office of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain.
ARTICLE 26
Application of the Universal Postal Convention and domestic legislation
1. All matters in connection with the exchange of correspondence among the contracting countries which are not provided for in this Convention, will be subject to the stipulations of the Universal Postal Convention and its Regulations. In turn , those which are not covered by these last two will form the subject of special agreements between the Administrations concerned .
2. Likewise, the domestic legislation of the said countries will apply to everything which has not been provided for in either Convention.
ARTICLE 27
Propositions for Universal Congresses
All the countries forming the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain will advise one another, through the intermediary of the International Office of Montevideo, of the propositions which they formulate for Universal Postal Congresses, six months in advance of the date on which they are to be held.
ARTICLE 28
Unity of action in Universal Postal Congresses
The countries signatory to the Americo-Spanish Postal Convention which have ratified the same or put it into force administratively obligate themselves to instruct their delegates to Universal Postal Congresses to sustain unanimously and firmly, all principles established in the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain, and also to vote in accordance with these postulates, except only in cases where the propositions to be debated affect only the countries proposing them .
ARTICLE 29
Preliminary Conferences
1. In view of the preceding Article, the Delegates of the countries composing the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain, prior to Universal Postal Congresses , shall assemble in the city designated as the seat of the Congress fifteen days before the date of inauguration thereof, in order to hold a preliminary conference, at which the procedure of joint action to be followed will be determined.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION-SEPT. 25, 1946

3517

2. At the proper time before the meeting of Universal Congresses , the International Office of Montevideo will invite the signatory Administrations to hold the preliminary conferences mentioned in the preceding Section , and the Director of the International Office of Montevideo is charged with organizing those conferences and attending them with the necessary personnel.
ARTICLE 30
New adherences
In case of a new adherence , the Government of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay by common consent with the International Office of Montevideo and the Government of the country concerned, will determine the group in which said country is to be included , for purposes of sharing the expenses of the International Office.

ARTICLE 31

Effective date and duration of Convention and deposit of ratifications

1. The present Convention will become effective January 1 , 1947 , and will remain in force without time-limit, each of the contracting parties reserving the right to withdraw from this Union by means of notice given by its Government to that of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay one year in advance.
2. The deposit of ratifications will be effected in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Republic of the United States of Brazil, as soon as possible, preferably before the effective date of the Convention and Agreements in question, and the relative certificate will be made up for each of them, a copy of which will be sent by the Government of the Republic of Brazil, through diplomatic channels , to the Governments of the other signatory countries.
3. The stipulations of the Postal Convention of the Americas and Spain signed in Panama on December 22 , 1936 , are abrogated, beginning with the date on which the present Convention enters into force.

50 Stat. 1657.

4. In case that the Convention is not ratified by one or more of

the contracting countries, it will nevertheless be valid for those which have ratified it.
5. The contracting countries may ratify the Convention and Agreements provisionally by correspondence, giving notice thereof to the

Provisional ratification by correspond-
ence.

respective Administrations through the medium of the International

Office without prejudice to the fact that, according to the legislation

of each country, and after approval by the National Congresses, it

may be confirmed through diplomatic channels .

In faith of which, the Plenipotentiaries of the Governments of the countries above named sign the present Convention in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Republic of the United States of Brazil, on the 25th day of the month of September, 1946 .
[For signatories to the Convention see Spanish text. ] 95347-50- PT. IV- 12

Ante, p. 3492.

3518
U. S. rates. Ante, p. 3516.
Ante, p. 3510. Ante, p. 3506. Ante, p. 3508. Ante, p. 3494.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
FINAL PROTOCOL OF THE CONVENTION
At the moment of signing the Convention concluded by the Fifth Americo-Spanish Postal Congress, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries have agreed upon the following:
I The United States of America reserves the right, as a transitory measure, to maintain its present rates for countries of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain which may be higher than those of its domestic service.
II
In connection with Article 28 of the Convention, Canada and the United States of America reserve complete liberty of action in Congresses of the Universal Postal Union.
III Canada formulates reservation in the sense that it cannot accept the provision of clauses (d ) and (e ) of Section 1 of Article 13 , and of Sections 3 and 4 of that Article.
IV
The Republic of Panama formulates a transitory reservation regarding Article 3 of the Convention which refers to ships that do not transport its own correspondence, until the adoption of legal provisions which will permit the application of that provision.
V
Canada formulates a reservation in the sense that the provisions of Article 8 are not applicable in Canada.
[For signatories to the Final Protocol see Spanish text.]

REGULATIONS OF EXECUTION OF THE CONVENTION OF THE POSTAL UNION OF THE AMERICAS AND SPAIN concluded between
Argentina, Bolivia , Brazil, Canada , Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Chile , Ecuador, El Salvador , Spain , the United States of America , the United States of Venezuela , Guatemala , Haiti , Honduras , Mexico , Nicaragua , Panama , Paraguay, Peru , the Dominican Republic and Uruguay .
The undersigned , in the name of the Administrations they represent, have approved the following Regulations to assure the execution of the foregoing Convention:
ARTICLE 101
Exchange of Mails
1. The Administrations of the contracting countries may send to one another reciprocally, through the intermediary of one or several

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946

3519

of them , both closed mails and correspondence in open mail , under the

conditions fixed by the Convention and Regulations in force in the Universal Postal Union.
2. In cases of reforwarding, the contracting countries are bound

54 Stat. 2049. Reforwarding .

to reforward the correspondence by the most rapid routes and means

which they utilize for their own dispatches . Transportation will be gratuitous when it is a question of services which belong to its Ad-

ministration, but they may charge the Administration of origin the

same amounts they are obliged to pay when the onward transmission

of the closed dispatches requires the services of foreign Administra-

tions to which those charges must be paid. Collection of
3. When the intermediary Administrations referred to in the above amounts from foreign
Section must collect amounts from the foreign countries of origin for countries of origin.
the use of services of foreign Administrations for onward transmission ,
they must make up the accounts for these expenses without exceeding, in any case, the charges fixed in the Universal Postal Union Conven-

tion and provided for in the rules established in its Regulations of 54 Stat. 2105.
Execution .

ARTICLE 102

Domestic postage rates and equivalents The Administrations will communicate to one another, as soon as possible, through the intermediary of the International Office of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain, all modifications of their domestic postage rates, as well as the equivalents of said rates in gold francs.
ARTICLE 103

Preparation of dispatches-Empty sacks
1. Dispatches containing correspondence exchanged between two countries of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain will be prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Regulations of Execution of the Convention of the Universal Postal Union.
2. The sacks utilized by the contracting Administrations for the dispatch of correspondence will be returned empty by the exchange offices of destination to those of origin, in the manner prescribed by the relative Article of said Regulations . However, Administrations may come to an agreement for the purpose of using them for the dispatch of their own correspondence.

54 Stat. 2105.

ARTICLE 104

Small packets
1. The preparation and packing of small packets will be governed by the same provisions as those fixed for samples. Moreover , the names and addresses of the senders shall appear on the outside of the articles .
2. It will be permissible to inclose in such articles an open invoice, reduced to its essential features, or else a simple copy of the address with indication of the address of the sender.

3520

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

54 Stat. 2111.

· 3. The packets , whether accompanied by customs declarations or not, shall always bear a green label conforming to Model C 1 of the Regulations of Execution of the Universal Postal Convention.

ARTICLE 105

Diplomatic pouches

Weight; dimensions. 1. Diplomatic pouches exchanged by the Ministries of Foreign Relations of the countries of the Postal Union of the Americas and

Ante, p. 3509. Registration.

Spain with their diplomatic representatives in the other countries , by virtue of the provisions of Article 13 of the Convention, may not exceed the weight of 20 kilograms or the following dimensions : length, width and height, together, 140 centimeters, and greatest dimension must not exceed 60 centimeters .
2. The Ministries of Foreign Relations and the diplomatic representatives will deposit these pouches in the post offices, as registered articles. That office will enter in the column "Observations" of the

registry special list the words "Valija Diplomatica (Diplomatic Pouches)" and the number of these if they are more than one.

3. These pouches will be provided with fastenings, locks or other safety devices appropriate to the importance of such dispatches.
4. Diplomatic pouches will be forwarded by the same routes used by the dispatching Administrations for the transmission of its correspondence to the Administration of destination , their sending being announced by means of a note entered in the letter bill of the dispatch containing them.
5. In the absence of agreement to the contrary between the parties

concerned, diplomatic pouches will not be dispatched under the franking privilege by air mail.

ARTICLE 106

Ante, p. 3506.

Diplomatic and consular correspondence
Diplomatic and consular correspondence shall bear the following indications : The name of the sending Embassy, Legation or Consulate, and the conspicuous inscription Diplomatic correspondence or Consular correspondence , in addition to the declaration Libre de porte (Free of postage) , which shall appear under the former inscription .
ARTICLE 107
Transit statistics
As a result of the gratuity of transit referred to by Article 3 of the Convention, the Administrations of the contracting countries will not perform any transit statistical operations in connection with dispatches containing Americo-Spanish correspondence exclusively, whenever this correspondence is forwarded without the intervention of countries or services foreign to the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- POSTAL UNION--SEPT. 25, 1946

3521

ARTICLE 108

Constitution of International Office

Director. 1. The Director of the International Office will be appointed by the

Government of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay, at the proposal

of the Administration of Posts of the said country, and will receive

monthly compensation in the amount of 900 Uruguayan pesos. The Subdirector-Secretary General, the Secretarial Official , the

Other personnel.

Translating Official and other personnel of the Office will be ap-

pointed, at the proposal of the Director of the International Office, by the Direction General of Posts of Uruguay. The monthly salary

Salaries.

of the Subdirector-Secretary General is fixed at 700 Uruguayan pesos ;

that of the Secretarial Official at 500 pesos ; that of the Translating

Official at 350 pesos ; that of the two assistants at 200 pesos each ; and that of the janitor at 150 pesos.
The said personnel may be removed from their posts only with the intervention of the Direction General of Posts of Uruguay, in

Removal of personnel.

accordance with the procedure established in that connection for
permanent employees of that Administration. Attendance of Di-
2. The Director of the International Office will attend Congresses rector at Congresses,
and Conferences of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain, for etc.

the purpose of complying with the provisions of Articles 21 and 29 of the Convention, and will be present at sessions, being permitted

Ante, pp. 3513, 3516.

to take part in discussions without right to vote. 3. The official language of the International Office is Spanish.
Nevertheless , countries whose language is not Spanish may use their own in relations with the Office.

Official language of Office.

ARTICLE 109

Retirement and pensions

The pensions and retirement of personnel of the International

Office of Montevideo will be paid exclusively from the special fund which the said Office has set aside for that purpose out of the contributions of all the countries of the Union. The conditions for and

amount of such retirement and pensions will be governed by the

laws on the subject in force in Uruguay for its own officers and

employees .

ARTICLE 110

Account and expenses of International Office
1. The expenses of the International Office may not exceed the annual sum of 55,000 Uruguayan gold pesos ; said amount including the establishment of a retirement fund for the personnel thereof.
2. For the division of the annual and extraordinary expenses of the Office the countries are divided into three groups ; those of the first group having to contribute eight units ; those of second, four units ; and those of the third , two units.
The following belong to the first group :
Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Spain, the United States of America and Uruguay.

Annual sum. Division ofexpenses.

3522
Special circular. Propositions . Ante, p. 3516.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
The following to the second group : Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Chile, the United States of Venezuela , Mexico , Panama and Peru.
The following to the third group : Bolivia, Ecuador , El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua, Paraguay, and the Dominican Republic.
ARTICLE 111
Information-Requests for modification of Acts The International Office will always be at the service of the contracting parties , to furnish them whatever special information they require concerning matters connected with the Americo-Spanish postal service ; and will circulate requests for modification or interpretation of the provisions governing the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain, and make known the result of each operation.
ARTICLE 112
Publications 1. The International Office of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain will send out a special circular when an Administration requests immediate publication of any change that has been introduced in its service , and will likewise furnish gratuitously, to each of the Administrations of the contracting countries and to the International Bureau of Berne, the documents which it publishes, allowing each Administration the number of copies which corresponds to the number of units which it contributes. Additional copies of documents requested by Administrations will be paid for by them at cost. 2. The International Office will distribute among the contracting countries the propositions which it receives in accordance with the provisions of Article 27 of the Convention . To that end, all countries of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain will make known through the intermediary of the same Office, and in due time, as established by the Convention , the propositions which they formulate for Universal Congresses, in order that such propositions may be supported by all the said countries.
ARTICLE 113
Documents and information to be sent to International Office 1. The International Office will serve as intermediary for regular and general notifications which exclusively concern the Administrations of the contracting countries . Said Administrations shall send to the International Office, regularly and promptly:
a) Their postal legislation and its subsequent modifications. b) Their Postal Guide, each time that it is published. c) Maps and guides of postal communications which they utilize for both domestic and international services.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-POSTAL UNION- SEPT. 25, 1946

3523

d) Information as to the most rapid territorial and maritime routes which may be used for exchange of correspondence.
e) The results of the annual statistics of their postal traffic with other Americo-Spanish countries .
f) The text of their propositions submitted to Universal Postal Congresses for consideration.
g) Data of all kinds concerning the Americo-Spanish postal service, every time that some new provision is established.
h) All information requested by the International Office itself for publication, reports and other matters pertaining to it, in such manner as to permit the execution of its task as soon as possible.
i) A table showing in detail all maritime services belonging to countries of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain which may be used gratuitously by the others for the transportation of their correspondence.
j ) The variations in the equivalents, as soon as they occur. k) Three copies of the postage stamps which are issued and of the impressions of the stamping machines, with a copy of the respective provisions of issuance.

2. All subsequent modifications will be communicated without delay .
ARTICLE 114

Modifications in the interval between meetings of Congresses

1. In the interval between Congresses, Administrations will have the right to formulate propositions relative to the present Regulations, following the procedure indicated in the Convention of the Universal Postal Union .
2. In order to become effective, those propositions must obtain two-thirds of the votes cast .

54 Stat. 2049.

ARTICLE 115

Application of Universal Postal Convention and domestic legislation

For all matters not provided for by these Regulations regarding the exchange of correspondence among the contracting countries , the provisions of the Regulations of the Convention of the Universal Postal Union will be applicable, and , in the absence of these, the domestic legislation of the same countries.

54 Stat. 2105.

ARTICLE 116

Effective date and duration of regulations The present Regulations will become effective on the same date as the Convention to which they relate, and will have the same duration.

In the city of Rio de Janeiro , Republic of the United States of Brazil, on the 25th day of September, 1946 .
[For signatories to the Regulations see Spanish text .]

Ante, p. 3502.

3524

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

September 25 , 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1681]

Agreement, and final protocol, between the United States of America and other governments respecting parcel post service within the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain . Agreement signed at Rio de Janeiro September 25, 1946; final protocol approved by acclamation September 21 , 1946, in plenary session of the Fifth Congress of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain at Rio de Janeiro; ratified and approved by the Postmaster General ofthe United States of America February 20, 1947; approved by the President of the United States of America February 27, 1947; entered into force January 1 , 1947 .

ACUERDO RELATIVO A ENCOMIENDAS POSTALES

celebrado entre:

Argentina, Bolivia , Brasil , Canadá, Colombia , Costa Rica , Cuba, Chile, Ecuador, El Salvador, España, Estados Unidos de América , Estados Unidos de Venezuela , Guatemala, Haití , Honduras, México , Nicaragua, Panamá, Paraguay, Perú, República Dominicana y Uruguay .
Los infrascritos , Plenipotenciarios de los Gobiernos de los países mencionados , en ejercicio de la facultad concedida por el Convenio de la Unión Postal Universal, acuerdan, ad referendum , realizar el servicio de encomiendas, con arreglo a las cláusulas siguientes:

ARTICULO 1
Objeto del Acuerdo
1. Bajo la denominación de "Encomienda Postal" o de las expresiones sinónimas "Paquete Postal" y "Bulto Postal" , los países enumerados podrán intercambiar esta clase de envíos.
2. Las encomiendas podrán expedirse certificadas mediante el pago , además del franqueo , del derecho de certificación vigente en el país de origen.
3. Las encomiendas postales podrán ser expedidas con declaración de valor o contra reembolso, cuando los países adheridos convengan en adoptar estas modalidades del servicio en sus relaciones recíprocas . La expedición de tales envíos se hará obligatoriamente en envases de buenas condiciones , debidamente cerrados .

ARTICULO 2
Tránsito
1. La libertad de tránsito queda garantizada en el territorio de cada uno de los países contratantes. En consecuencia, las diversas Administraciones podrán utilizar la mediación de uno o varios países para el cambio recíproco de encomiendas.
2. Las encomiendas serán cursadas en despachos cerrados, o al descubierto cuando así lo convengan las Administraciones interesadas,

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- PARCEL POST SERVICE- SEPT. 25, 1946
por las vías terrestres y marítimas más rápidas , que utilicen para sus propios envíos los países que intervengan en el transporte.
3. Las Administraciones remitentes estarán obligadas a enviar una copia de la Hoja de Ruta C. P. 12 u otra similar a cada una de las Administraciones intermediarias cuando el tránsito se haga en despachos cerrados.
ARTICULO 3
Peso y dimensiones
El máximo de peso y las dimensiones de las encomiendas serán los fijados en el Acuerdo pertinente de la Unión Postal Universal . Sin embargo, las Administraciones contratantes podrán admitir, previa la conformidad de los países intermediarios, encomiendas con otros límites de dimensiones.
ARTICULO 4
Tarifas y bonificaciones
1. La tarifa de las encomiendas intercambiadas con arreglo a este Acuerdo , se forma únicamente con la suma de los derechos territoriales de origen, tránsito y destino . Llegado el caso, se agregarán los derechos marítimos previstos en el Acuerdo vigente de la Unión Postal Universal sobre cambio de encomiendas postales.
2. Los derechos territoriales de origen, tránsito y destino se fijan para cada país en francos oro o su equivalente como sigue:
25 céntimos por encomienda hasta de 1 kilogramo ; 40 céntimos por encomienda de más de 1 y hasta 3 kilogramos ; 50 céntimos por encomienda de más de 3 y hasta 5 kilogramos ; 100 céntimos por encomienda de más de 5 y hasta 10 kilogramos ; 150 centimos por encomienda de más de 10 y hasta 15 kilogramos ; 200 céntimos por encomienda de más de 15 y hasta 20 kilogramos.
3. Las Administraciones de origen y de destino tendrán la facultad de aumentar hasta el doble las tasas aplicables a las categorías de 1 , 3, 5 y 10 kilos , así como la de aplicar a cada encomienda de esos límites de peso una sobretasa de 25 céntimos.
Las tasas de salida y llegada , relativas a las encomiendas de las categorías de 15 y 20 kilos, serán fijadas de acuerdo con el criterio de cada Administración .
4. Las Administraciones que en el régimen universal gocen de autorizaciones especiales para elevar los derechos consignados en los dos parágrafos anteriores, podrán también hacer uso de dichas autorizaciones en el régimen américoespañol .
5. La Administración de origen acreditará a cada una de las Administraciones que intervengan en el transporte, incluso a la de destino, los derechos correspondientes con arreglo a lo dispuesto en los parágrafos anteriores.
6. La Oficina Internacional editará y distribuirá el cuadro de los derechos de tránsito territorial y los de salida y llegada que correspondan a cada Administración, que se irá actualizando por medio de suplementos .

3525

3526

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
ARTICULO 5
Anulación de saldos menores de 50 francos oro
Cuando en las liquidaciones por el servicio de encomiendas entre dos países , el saldo anual no exceda de 50 francos oro , la Administración deudora quedará exenta de todo pago, siempre que medie acuerdo con la acreedora.
ARTICULO 6
Derechos por despacho de aduanas , entrega , almacenaje y otros
1. Las Administraciones de destino podrán cobrar a los destinatarios de las encomiendas:
a) Un derecho de 50 céntimos de franco oro o su equivalencia, como máximo, por las operaciones, formalidades y trámites inherentes al despacho de aduanas ;
b) Un derecho igual al establecido en su servicio interno hasta un máximo de 40 céntimos de franco oro o su equivalencia, por la conducción y entrega de cada encomienda en el domicilio del destinatario . Cuando las encomiendas no sean entregadas en el domicilio del destinatario , éste deberá ser avisado de la llegada. Las Administraciones cuyo régimen interior lo exija, percibirán un derecho especial por la entrega de dicho aviso , que no podrá exceder del porte sencillo de una carta ordinaria del servicio interior .
c) Un derecho diario de almacenaje, no superior al señalado por la legislación interna de cada país, a partir de los plazos prescritos en ella, sin que en ningún caso el total a percibir pueda exceder de 5 francos oro o su equivalencia ;
d) Los derechos arancelarios y todos los demás derechos no postales que establezca su legislación interior ;
e) La cantidad que corresponda por concepto de derecho consular, cuando no se hubiere abonado de antemano por el remitente ;
f) El derecho de reembalaje de 30 céntimos de franco oro como máximo, previsto en el Acuerdo correspondiente de la Unión Postal Universal . Este derecho se percibirá del destinatario o remitente, según el caso.
2. Quedarán exentas del pago del derecho de entrega las encomiendas destinadas a los miembros de los Cuerpos Diplomático y Consular a que se refiere el artículo 13 de Convenio , salvo las dirigidas a los últimos si contuvieran artículos sujetos al pago de derechos aduaneros.
ARTICULO 7
Prohibición de otros gravámenes
Las encomiendas de que trata el presente Acuerdo no podrán ser gravadas con otros derechos postales que los establecidos en los artículos precedentes.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-PARCEL POST SERVICE- SEPT. 25, 1946
Sin embargo , las Administraciones que convengan entre sí la admisión de encomiendas contra reembolso o con valor declarado , estarán autorizadas para percibir los derechos relativos a esta clase de envíos.
ARTICULO 8
Responsabilidad 1. Las Administraciones serán responsables por la pérdida, substracción o avería de las encomiendas ordinarias o certificadas.
El remitente tendrá derecho, por este concepto, a una indemnización equivalente al importe real de la pérdida, substracción o avería. Esta indemnización no podrá exceder de:
10 francos oro por encomienda hasta el peso de 1 kilogramo ; 15 francos oro por encomienda de más de 1 y hasta 3 kilogramos ; 25 francos oro por encomienda de más de 3 y hasta 5 kilogramos ; 40 francos oro por encomienda de más de 5 y hasta 10 kilogramos ; 55 francos oro por encomienda de más de 10 y hasta 15 kilogramos. 70 francos oro por encomienda de más de 15 y hasta 20 kilogramos .
2. La indemnización se calculará según el precio corriente de la mercancía de la misma clase en el lugar y en la época en que la encomienda fuere aceptada para su transporte.
3. Por las encomiendas aseguradas, cambiadas entre aquellas Administraciones que convengan establecer esta modalidad del servicio, la indemnización no podrá exceder de la declaración de valor .
4. Para que pueda determinarse debidamente la responsabilidad de las Administraciones, las oficinas de cambio destinatarias, siempre que adviertan irregularidades que exijan el levantamiento de acta, deberán mencionar las condiciones en que las encomiendas fueren recibidas, especialmente en lo que se refieren al estado de los cierres y envases , los cuales deberán enviarse a la Administración de origen acompañados de una copia del acta y del boletín de verificación levantados al efecto , las cubiertas y embalajes de las encomiendas en causa y todo otro elemento de prueba.
ARTICULO 9
Encomiendas pendientes de entrega
Se fija en treinta días el plazo durante el cual deberá la Administración de destino mantener las encomiendas a disposición de los interesados .
Este plazo, que se contará desde el día siguiente al de la expedición del aviso de llegada, podrá, a petición del destinatario , ser elevado a tres meses, si , además , el remitente hubiere hecho indicación en tal sentido de acuerdo con el inciso d ) del parágrafo 2 y cuando la Administración destinataria no se opusiere a ello .
2. Los remitentes , por virtud de las disposiciones contenidas en el parágrafo anterior , estarán obligados a indicar en el boletín de expedición o en la declaración de aduana , así como en la envoltura de la encomienda, en qué forma ha de procederse con la misma en el caso

3527

3528

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
de no poder ser entregada, sujetándose a una de las siguientes modalidades :
a) que sea devuelta a origen ; b) que se entregue a otro destinatario ; c) que se considere abandonada ; d) que se mantenga a disposición del destinatario, hasta tres meses,
en las condiciones del parágrafo 1 . A falta de indicaciones y caída en rezago, la encomienda será devuelta inmediatamente a origen.
ARTICULO 10
Declaraciones fraudulentas
1. En los casos en que se compruebe que los remitentes de una encomienda , por sí o de acuerdo con los destinatarios , declaren con falsedad la calidad , peso o medida del contenido o que, por otro medio cualquiera, traten de defraudar los intereses fiscales del país de destino, eludiendo el pago de los derechos de importación, ocultando objetos o declarándolos en forma tal que evidencie la intención de suprimir o reducir el importe de esos derechos , queda facultada la Administración interesada para disponer de esos envíos conforme a su legislación interna, sin que ni el remitente ni el destinatario tengan derecho a su entrega, devolución o indemnización .
2. La Administración que decomise una encomienda , de conformidad con la precedente autorización, deberá notificarlo al destinatario y a la Administración de origen.
ARTICULO 11
Encomiendas para segundos destinatarios
Los remitentes de encomiendas dirigidas al cuidado de Bancos u otras entidades , para entregar a segundos destinatarios , estarán obligados a consignar en las etiquetas , fajillas o envolturas de aquéllas, el nombre y dirección exactos de las personas a quienes estuvieren destinados estos envíos . Sin embargo, se dará aviso al segundo destinatario de la existencia de tales encomiendas pudiéndose percibir el derecho fijado en el artículo 6 , sin que pueda reclamar su entrega, sino mediante una autorización escrita del primer destinatario o del remitente. Este último deberá, en tal caso , gestionar la entrega por conducto de la Administración de origen.
ARTICULO 12 Encomiendas abandonadas o devueltas 1 Las encomiendas abandonadas o que devueltas no puedan ser entregadas a sus remitentes , quedarán a disposición de las Administraciones de destino u origen, según el caso, para que procedan con esos envíos conforme a su legislación interior. 2. Las Administraciones destinatarias podrán devolver desde luego las encomiendas que hubieren sido rehusadas.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- PARCEL POST SERVICE- SEPT. 25, 1946
3. Las Administraciones podrán cobrar por cada encomienda que devuelvan a origen en calidad de rezagada, las siguientes cantidades:
a) La que le corresponda como derecho terminal ; b) Los derechos a que se refiere el parágrafo 1 del artículo 4 ; c) Los derechos que adeuden las encomiendas en el país de destino
por concepto de reexpediciones ; d) El derecho a que se refiere el parágrafo 1 inciso a) del artículo 6 ; e) El derecho de almacenaje de que trata el parágrafo 1 inciso c) del
artículo 6 ; y f) El derecho de reembalaje.
ARTICULO 13 Proposiciones durante el intervalo de las reuniones El presente Acuerdo podrá ser modificado en el intervalo que media entre los Congresos , siguiendo el procedimiento establecido en el Convenio vigente de la Unión Postal Universal. Para que tengan fuerza ejecutiva las modificaciones, deberán obtener:
a) unanimidad de sufragios, si se trata de introducir nuevas disposiciones o de modificar el presente artículo o los artículos 1 , 2 , 3, 4, 6 , 7, 8 y 9;
b) dos tercios de sufragios para modificar las demás disposiciones.
ARTICULO 14
Asuntos no previstos
1. Todos los asuntos no previstos por este Acuerdo , serán regidos por las disposiciones del Acuerdo de Encomiendas de la Unión Postal Universal y su Reglamento de Ejecución.
2. Sin embargo , las Administraciones contratantes podrán fijar otros detalles para la práctica del servicio , previo acuerdo.
3. Se reconoce el derecho de que gozan los países contratantes para mantener vigente el procedimiento reglamentario adoptado en orden al cumplimiento de Convenios que tengan entre sí , siempre que dicho procedimiento no se oponga a las disposiciones de este Acuerdo.
ARTICULO 15
Vigencia y duración del Acuerdo
1. El presente Acuerdo comenzará a regir el 1º de enero de 1947 y quedará en vigencia sin limitación de tiempo , reservándose cada una de las partes contratantes el derecho de denunciarlo, mediante aviso dado por su Gobierno al de la República Oriental del Uruguay, con un año de anticipación .
2. El depósito de las ratificaciones se hará en la ciudad de Río de Janeiro, República de los Estados Unidos del Brasil, en el más breve plazo posible . Se levantará un Acta relativa al depósito de las ratificaciones de cada país y el Gobierno del Brasil remitirá por la vía diplomática una copia de dicha Acta a los Gobiernos de los demás países signatarios.

3529

3530

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
3. Quedan derogadas, a partir de la fecha en que entre en vigor el presente Acuerdo, las estipulaciones del Acuerdo de Encomiendas Postales, suscripto en Panamá el 22 de diciembre de 1936.
4. En caso de que el Acuerdo no fuere ratificado por uno o varios de los países contratantes, no dejará de ser válido para los que así lo hubieran hecho .
5. Los países contratantes podrán ratificar este Acuerdo , provisionalmente, por correspondencia, dando aviso de ello a las Administraciones respectivas por medio de la Oficina Internacional, sin perjuicio de que, según la legislación de cada país y previa aprobación de los Congresos Nacionales , sea confirmada por la vía diplomática.
En fe de lo cual, los Plenipotenciarios de los países enumerados , suscriben el presente Acuerdo en la ciudad de Río de Janeiro , Estados Unidos del Brasil , a los veinticinco días del mes de setiembre de mil novecientos cuarenta y seis.
Por ARGENTINA : OSCAR L. M. NICOLINI CARLOS M. LASCANO MANUEL PRECEDO DOMINGO B. CANALLE
Por BOLIVIA : JOSÉ LIÉVANA FORRASTAL RAFAEL BARRIENTOS
Por BRASIL : RAUL DE ALBUQUERQUE CARLOS LUIS TAVEIRA JAIME SLOAN CHERMONT AUREO MAIA JAIME DÍAS FRANÇA JOAQUIM VIANNA JULIO SÁNCHEZ PÉREZ CARLOS F. DE FIGUEIREDO
Por CANADA : WALTER JAMES TURNBULL Cnel. EDWARD JAMES UNDERWOOD , O.B.E. FRANCIS EVERETT JOLLIFFE, M.B.E.
Por COLOMBIA :
LUIS GARCÍA CADENA LUIS JORGE GARZÓN Por COSTA RICA:
ROBERTO TINOCO GUTIÉRREZ Por CUBA :
GABRIEL LANDA Y CHAO JESÚS LAGO LUNAR

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- PARCEL POST SERVICE- SEPT. 25, 1946
Por CHILE : LUIS FELIPE LASO MIGUEL A. PARRA GUILLERMO JIMÉNEZ MORGAN
Por ECUADOR : RAFAEL ALVARADO
Por EL SALVADOR : Coronel CARLOS MEJÍA OSORIO
Por ESPAÑA : LUIS RODRÍGUEZ DE MIGUEL ELÍAS URDANGARAIN BERNACH
Por ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA : JOHN J. GILLEN EDWARD J. MAHONEY
Por ESTADOS UNIDOS DE VENEZUELA : PABLO CASTRO BECERRA FRANCISCO VELEZ SALAS CARLOS HARTMANN
Por GUATEMALA : FLAVIO HERRERA
Por HAITI : LUIS MORAIS JUNIOR
Por HONDURAS : MARCO ANTONIO BATRES MANUEL SOTO DE PONTES CAMARA
Por MEXICO : ANTONIO VILLALOBOS DIDIER DOMÍNGUEZ VALDÉS LAURO F. RAMÍREZ UMAÑA
Por NICARAGUA : José MERCEDES PALMA
Por PANAMA : CATALINO ARROCHA GRAELL JULIO TRELLES ROQUE JAVIER LAURENZA
Por PARAGUAY : ANÍBAL IBARRA G.
Por PERU: GERMÁN LLOSA PARDO ERNESTO CÁCERES BOLUARTE
Por República DOMINICANA: MIGUEL ANTONIO OLAVARRIETA PÉREZ

3531

3532

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Por URUGUAY : ENRIQUE E. BUERO MIGUEL AGUERRE ARISTEGUI CÉSAR I. Rossi
PROTOCOLO FINAL DEL ACUERDO RELATIVO A ENCOMIENDAS POSTALES
En el momento de firmar el Acuerdo Relativo a Encomiendas Postales celebrado por el V Congreso Postal Américoespañol , los Plenipotenciarios que suscriben han convenido lo siguiente :
Estados Unidos de América está facultado para elevar hasta el duplo los derechos territoriales de tránsito establecidos en el Artículo 4 del Acuerdo y aplicar además una sobretasa de 25 céntimos por encomienda.
Río de Janeiro, a los 25 días de setiembre de 1946. (¹) (¹) Aprobado, por aclamación, en Sesión Plenaria del V Congreso de la Unión Postal de las Américas y España, de fecha 21 de setiembre de 1946. [Footnote in certified copy.]

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- PARCEL POST SERVICE-- SEPT. 25, 1946

Having examined and considered the provisions of the foregoing

Agreement Relative to Parcel Post , signed in the city of Rio de Janeiro, the United States of Brazil, on the twenty-fifth day of

September, 1946 , and the Final Protocol to that Agreement, the same are by me, by virtue of the powers vested by law in the Postmaster

General, hereby ratified and approved, by and with the advice and consent of the President of the United States.

In witness whereof, I have caused the seal of the Post Office

Department of the United States to be hereto affixed this 20th day

of February , 1947.

[SEAL]

ROBERT E HANNEGAN Postmaster General

I hereby approve the foregoing Agreement Relative to Parcel Post and the Final Protocol to that Agreement.

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have caused the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed.

[SEAL]

HARRY S TRUMAN

By the President : G C MARSHALL Secretary of State.

WASHINGTON, February 27, 1947.

3533

95347-50- PT. IV- -13

3534 54 Stat. 2049.
54 Stat. 2049.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Translation prepared by the Post Office Department

AGREEMENT RELATIVE TO PARCEL POST

T

concluded between

,

Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Chile, Ecuador, El Salvador , Spain, the United States of America, the United States of Venezuela, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras , Mexico , Nicaragua, Panama , Paraguay, Peru , Uruguay and the Dominican Republic .
The undersigned , Plenipotentiaries of the Governments of the countries mentioned, in the exercise of the option conferred by the Convention of the Universal Postal Union, agree, ad referendum, to execute the parcel post service in accordance with the following provisions:
ARTICLE 1
Object of the Agreement
1. Under the denomination of "parcel post" (Encomienda postal, Paquete postal or Bulto postal) the countries mentioned may exchange this class of mail matter.
2. Parcels may be sent registered by paying the registration fee in effect in the country of origin, in addition to the postage.
3. Parcels may be sent insured or collect- on-delivery, when the adhering countries agree to adopt these types of service in their reciprocal relations . The dispatch of such parcels in containers in good condition, properly fastened , will be obligatory.
ARTICLE 2
Transit
1. Liberty of transit is guaranteed over the territory of every one of the contracting countries. Consequently, the various Administrations may use the intermediary of one or more countries for the reciprocal exchange of parcels.
2. Parcels will be sent in closed mails, or in open mail when the Administrations concerned have so agreed, and shall be forwarded by the most rapid land and sea routes which are utilized for their own mails by the countries participating in the transportation.
3. The dispatching Administrations will be obliged to send a copy of the parcel bills C. P. 12 or another similar bill , to each of the intermediary Administrations when the dispatches are sent in closed mail transit.
ARTICLE 3
Weight and dimensions
The maximum weight and dimensions will be those fixed by the Agreement of the Universal Postal Convention. However, the contracting Administrations may, after obtaining consent of the intermediary countries, accept parcels with other limits of dimensions.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-PARCEL POST SERVICE- SEPT. 25, 1946

3535

ARTICLE 4

Postage rates and payments
1. The postage on parcels exchanged under this Agreement is composed only of the sum of the territorial rates of origin, transit and destination . If necessary, the maritime rates provided for by the

Postage on parcels.

Parcel Post Agreement of the Universal Postal Union in force will be added.
2. The territorial charges of origin, transit and destination are fixed for each country in gold francs or their equivalent , as follows :

Territorial charges.

25 centimes for parcels up to 1 kilogram; 40 centimes for parcels from 1 to 3 kilograms ; 50 centimes for parcels from 3 to 5 kilograms ; 100 centimes for parcels from 5 to 10 kilograms ; 150 centimes for parcels from 10 to 15 kilograms ; 200 centimes for parcels from 15 to 20 kilograms.
Option of increasing 3. The Administrations of origin and destination will have the rates.
option of increasing the rates applicable to parcels of 1 , 3 , 5 and 10
kilograms up to double their amount, as well as applying a surcharge
of 25 centimes to each parcel of these weight limits . Rates of departure
The rates of departure and arrival applying to parcels of 15 and 20 andarrival. kilograms will be fixed at the discretion of each Administration. "
4. Administrations which, in the Universal service, are specially authorized to increase the rates set forth in the two preceding Sections ,

may also make use of such authorization in the Americo-Spanish service .

5. The Administration of origin will credit each of the Administra-

tions taking part in the transportation , including that of destination,

with the corresponding charges, in accordance with the provisions of

the foregoing Sections.

Dra

6. The International Office will publish and distribute the table of

land transit rates and those of departure and arrival payable to each Administration, keeping it up to date by means of supplements.

Credits. Table ofrates.

ARTICLE 5colulet en

Cancelation of balances under 50 gold francs
When in the settlement of the parcel post service between two countries the annual balance does not exceed 50 gold francs , the debtor Administration will be exempt from any payment, provided that agreement to such effect has been reached with the creditor Administration .
ARTICLE 6

Customs clearance, delivery, storage and other charges
Fees . 1. The Administrations of destination may collect from the addressees of parcels :

(a) A fee of 50 centimes of a gold franc or the equivalent thereof, as a maximum, for the operations, formalities and transactions in connection with customs handling..

3536

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

(b) A fee similar to that established for its domestic service up to a maximum of 40 centimes of a gold franc, or its equivalent, for the transmission and delivery of each parcel to the address of the addressee.

When parcels are not delivered at the address of the addressee, the latter shall be advised of their arrival. The Administrations

whose domestic regulations require it, will collect a special fee for

Storage charge.

the delivery of such notice, which may not exceed the postage for a single weight unit of an ordinary letter in the domestic service .
(c) A daily storage charge not exceeding that fixed by the domestic legislation of each country, from the time prescribed

therein, provided that the total to be collected may in no case exceed five gold francs or the equivalent thereof.
(d) The customs duties and all other non-postal charges which their domestic legislation establishes.

54 Stat. 2049.

(e) The amount corresponding to the consular fee, when it has not been prepaid by the sender.
(f) The repacking fee of 30 centimes of a gold franc at most , provided for in the corresponding Agreement of the Universal Postal Convention . This fee will be collected from the addressee

or from the sender, according to the circumstances .

Exemption from delivery fees.

2. Parcels addressed to members of the Diplomatic and Consular

54 Stat. 2056.

Corps mentioned in Article 13 of the Convention will be exempt from

the payment of delivery fees, except those addressed to the latter

when they contain articles liable to payment of customs duties.

ARTICLE 7

Prohibition against other charges

The parcels of which the present Agreement treats may not be subjected to any other postal charges than those established in the

Collect-on -delivery parcels, etc.

foregoing Articles . However, Administrations which agree among themselves on the
admission of collect-on-delivery or insured parcels, will be authorized

to collect the charges relative to these classes of articles.

ARTICLE 8

Loss ofparcels, etc. Indemnity.

Responsibility 1. The Administrations will be responsible for loss, rifling or damage of ordinary or registered parcels. The sender will be entitled, on that account, to an indemnity equivalent to the actual amount of loss, rifling or damage. This indemnity may not exceed:

10 gold francs for each parcel up to 1 kilogram ; 15 gold francs for each parcel from 1 to 3 kilograms ; 25 gold francs for each parcel from 3 to 5 kilograms ; 40 gold francs for each parcel from 5 to 10 kilograms ; 55 gold francs for each parcel from 10 to 15 kilograms ; 70 gold francs for each parcel from 15 to 20 kilograms.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- PARCEL POST SERVICE- SEPT. 25, 1946

3537

2. The indemnity will be calculated according to the current price

of merchandise of the same kind at the place where and the time when

the parcel was accepted for mailing. 3. For insured parcels exchanged between those Administrations

Insured parcels.

which agree to establish this type of service, the indemnity may not exceed the insured value.
4. In order that responsibility of the Administrations may be

Reports by exchange offices.

properly determined , the exchange offices of destination, whenever

they note irregularities calling for the preparation of a report, must

describe the conditions under which the parcels were received , especially

as regards the condition of the fastenings and containers, which shall

be sent to the Administration of origin, accompanied by a copy of there-

port and the bulletin of verification issued in this connection, the covers

and wrappers of the parcels in question and all other elements of

proof.

ARTICLE 9

Parcels pending delivery Period for holding
1. The period for which parcels must be held at the disposal of the parcels. interested parties at the office of destination is fixed at thirty days.
This period, which is counted from the day following the mailing of the notice of arrival, may, at the request of the addressee, be increased to three months if, in addition, the sender has made a statement to such effect in accordance with paragraph (d ) of Section 2, and when the Administration of destination does not object to it.
2. The senders, by virtue of the provisions contained in the pre- Disposal in case of non-delivery.
ceding Section, will be obliged to indicate on the dispatch note or customs declaration, as well as on the cover of the parcel, what disposal is to be made of the same in case of non-delivery, limiting themselves to one of the following instructions:
(a) That the parcel be returned to origin ; (b) That the parcel be delivered to another addressee ; (c) That it be considered as abandoned ; (d) That it be held at the disposal of the addressee, up to
three months, under the conditions of Section 1 .
When no instructions have been given and the parcel remains undelivered, it will be returned immediately to the office of origin.
ARTICLE 10

Fraudulent declarations

1. In cases where it is proved that the senders of

the parcels, by

Disposition of articles.

themselves or by agreement with the addressees, falsely declare the

quality, weight, or measure of the contents, or in any other manner

attempt to defraud the fiscal interests of the country of destination

by avoiding payment of import duties, concealing articles or declaring them in such a manner as to show evident intention of nullifying

or reducing the amount of such duties , the Administration concerned

is authorized to dispose of those articles in accordance with its do-

mestic legislation, and neither the sender nor the addressee will have

any right to delivery, return or indemnity.

3538

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

2. The Administration confiscating a parcel in accordance with the preceding authorization shall notify the addressee and the Administration of origin.
ARTICLE 11

Parcels for second addressees

Ante, p. 3535.

Senders of parcels addressed in care of banks or other organizations for delivery to second addressees , will be obliged to state on the tags, labels or wrappers thereof, the exact names and addresses of the persons for whom such parcels are intended . Nevertheless , the second addressee will be notified that such parcel is on hand and the fee provided for by Article 6 may be collected ; but he may not claim delivery without the written authorization of the first addressee or of the sender. The latter shall , in that case, arrange for its delivery through the Administration of origin.

ARTICLE 12

Abandoned or returned parcels

1. Abandoned parcels, or those returned to origin which cannot be

delivered to the senders, will remain at the disposal of the Adminis-

tration of destination or origin, as the case may be, to be treated in

Refused parcels. Amounts collectible.

accordance with their domestic legislation. 2. The Administrations of destination may immediately return
parcels which have been refused . 3. The Administrations may collect for each parcel returned to

origin as undeliverable , the following amounts :

Ante, p. 3535. Ante, p. 3536.

(a) The amount due to them as terminal charge ; (b) The charges referred to in Section 1 of Article 4 ; (c ) The charges due on parcels in the country of destination
on account of forwarding ; (d) The fee mentioned in Section 1 (a) of Article 6 ; (e ) The storage charges indicated in Section 1 ( c ) of Article 6. (f) The repacking fee.

ARTICLE 13

Propositions in the interval between meetings The present Agreement may be modified in the interval which transpires between Congresses, following the procedure established by the Convention of the Universal Postal Union in force. In order to become effective , modifications must obtain:
(a) Unanimity of votes, if it is a question of introducing new provisions or modifying the present Article or Articles 1 , 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and 9.
(b) Two-thirds of the votes, in order to modify the other provisions .
ARTICLE 14

54 Stat. 2049.

Matters not provided for 1. All matters not provided for by this Agreement will be governed by the provisions of the Parcel Post Agreement of the Universal Postal Union and its Regulations of Execution.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-PARCEL POST SERVICE- SEPT. 25, 1946

3539

2. However, the contracting Administrations may fix other details for the execution of the service , after previous agreement .
3. The right of the contracting countries to retain in force the regulatory procedure adopted for the execution of Conventions among themselves is recognized , provided that such procedure is not contrary to the provisions of this Agreement .

ARTICLE 15

Effective date and duration of the Agreement

1. The present Agreement will become effective January 1 , 1947, and will remain in force without time limit, each of the contracting

parties reserving the right to denounce it by means of notice given by its Government to that of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay one year in advance.
Deposit of ratifica2. The deposit of ratifications will be effected in the city of Rio de tions. Janeiro, Republic of the United States of Brazil , as soon as possible.

The relative certificate will be prepared in regard to the ratifications

by each country, and the Government of Brazil will send a copy of

the said certificate, through diplomatic channels, to the Governments

of the other signatory countries .

3. The stipulations of the Parcel Post Agreement signed in Panama on December 22 , 1936 , are abrogated , beginning with the date on

50 Stat. 1696.

which the present Agreement becomes effective .

4. In case that the Agreement is not ratified by one or more of the

contracting countries, it will nevertheless be valid for the countries.

which have ratified it. 5. The contracting countries may ratify this Agreement provision-
ally, by correspondence, giving notice thereof to the respective Ad-

Provisional ratification by correspond-
ence.

ministrations through the medium of the International Office, without

prejudice to the fact that, according to the legislation of each country, and after approval by the National Congresses, it may be confirmed through diplomatic channels.

In faith of which, the Plenipotentiaries of the countries enumerated sign the present Agreement in the city of Rio de Janeiro, United States of Brazil, on the 25th day of September, 1946 .
[For signatories to the Agreement see Spanish text .]

Ante, p. 3530.

FINAL PROTOCOL TO THE PARCEL POST AGREEMENT

At the time of signing the Parcel Post Agreement concluded by the Fifth Americo -Spanish Postal Congress, the Plenipotentiaries signing agreed upon the following:
The United States of America is permitted to increase up to double their amount the territorial transit charges fixed by Article 4 of the Agreement, and to apply also a surcharge of 25 centimes per parcel .
RIO DE JANEIRO, September 25, 1946. ( *)

Ante, p. 3535.

(*) [Approved by acclamation in Plenary Session of the Fifth Congress of the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain, September 21 , 1946.] [Footnote in certified copy.]

3540

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

September 25 , 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1682]

Agreement, and final protocol, between the United States of America and other governments respecting the exchange of money orders. Signed at Rio de Janeiro September 25, 1946; ratified and approved by the Postmaster General ofthe United States of America February 20, 1947; approved by the President of the United States of America February 27, 1947; entered into force January 1 , 1947 .

ACUERDO RELATIVO A GIROS POSTALES

celebrado entre:

Argentina, Bolivia, Brasil , Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Chile, Ecuador, El Salvador, España, Estados Unidos de América, Estados Unidos de Venezuela , Guatemala , Haití, Honduras, México , Nicaragua, Panamá, Paraguay, Perú , República Dominicana y Uruguay.
Los infrascritos , Plenipotenciarios de los Gobiernos de los países mencionados , en ejercicio de la facultad conferida por el Convenio de la Unión Postal Universal, acuerdan, "ad referéndum", realizar el servicio de giros con arreglo a las cláusulas siguientes.

ARTICULO 1 Objeto del Acuerdo El cambio de giros postales entre los países contratantes , cuyas Administraciones convengan en realizar este servicio, se regirá por las disposiciones del presente Acuerdo .
ARTICULO 2
Moneda
El importe de los giros se expresará en la moneda del pais de destino. Sin embargo las Administraciones quedan facultadas para adoptar de común acuerdo otra moneda, cuando así convenga a sus intereses.

ARTICULO 3

Condiciones para el cambio de los giros
1. El cambio de giros postales entre los países contratantes se llevará a cabo por medio de listas conforme al modelo A anexo, que se encaminarán a su destino por vía ordinaria o aérea, según lo acuerden las Administraciones interesadas.
2. También mediante acuerdo podrá agregarse, a petición del remitente del giro, a las mencionadas listas A una tira, o consignarse en la lista una comunicación particular dirigida al beneficiario, relacionada con el título respectivo .
3. Cada Administración designará las oficinas de su país que hayan de encargarse de formular dichas listas y enviarlas a aquellas

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- EXCHANGE OF MONEY ORDERS-SEPT. 25, 1946
otras oficinas que, para los mismos fines , designen las demás Administraciones .
4. En los casos de fuerza mayor que imposibiliten el intercambio directo de giros , el país expedidor, aun sin que medie petición del remitente o del destinatario, podrá dirigirlos , previo acuerdo entre las Administraciones interesadas y sujeto a las reglas precedentes , a otro país distinto , para que éste, a su vez, los reexpida a su destino por la vía que haga factible su entrega.
ARTICULO 4
Giros telegráficos
Las disposiciones de este Acuerdo se harán extensivas al servicio de giros telegráficos entre aquellos países que convengan en prestarlo. A tal efecto, previo arreglo entre sí , fijarán las condiciones reglamentarias del propio servicio.
ARTICULO 5
Límites máximos de emisión Las Administraciones de los países contratantes, que convengan en prestar este servicio, se pondrán de acuerdo para fijar el límite máximo de los giros que cambien entre sí, sin que éste pueda ser inferior a 300 francos oro o a la equivalencia de esta cantidad en la moneda respectiva. Sin embargo, los giros relativos al servicio de Correos, emitidos con franquicia de porte en aplicación de las disposiciones del artículo 9, podrán exceder del máximo fijado por cada Administración .
ARTICULO 6
Tasas y derechos de comisión 1. El remitente de todo giro emitido conforme a las disposiciones del presente Acuerdo deberá abonar la tasa que fije la Administración de origen, de acuerdo con su reglamentación y con la escala adoptada y promulgada para su servicio interno . 2. Cuando los giros se cursen por vía aérea o por expreso, las Administraciones podrán percibir los derechos especiales y sobretasas aéreas establecidos, que no podrán exceder de los que rijan para las cartas .
ARTICULO 7 Endosos
Los países contratantes quedan autorizados para permitir en su territorio y de acuerdo con su legislación interior, el endoso de los giros originarios de cualquier país.
ARTICULO 8
Responsabilidad Las Administraciones serán responsables ante los remitentes , de las cantidades que éstos depositen para ser invertidas en giros postales,

3541

3542

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
hasta el momento en que sean pagados a los destinatarios o endosatarios .
ARTICULO 9
Franquicia de derechos
Estarán exentos de todo derecho los giros relativos al servicio cambiados entre las Administraciones o entre las oficinas de correos dependientes de cada Administración , así como también los que remitan a la Oficina Internacional de Montevideo y viceversa.
ARTICULO 10
Plazo de validez de los giros
1. Salvo acuerdo en contrario, todo giro postal será pagadero en el país de destino dentro de los doce meses siguientes al de su emisión .
2. El importe de los giros que no hayan sido pagados dentro de dicho período, se acreditará a la Administración de origen, a la cual se enviará al efecto una fórmula D con el detalle de tales giros, para que proceda de acuerdo con sus reglamentos.
ARTICULO 11
Cambio de dirección y reintegro de giros
1. Cuando el remitente desee corregir un error en la dirección del destinatario o solicitar la devolución del importe del giro, hará la gestión ante la Administración del país que lo haya emitido.
2. Por lo general, un giro postal no será reintegrado sin autorización de la Administración Central del país pagador . Dicha autorización se dará por medio de una comunicación independiente, dirigida a la Administración de origen, y el monto total de los giros cuyo reintegro se autorice se acreditará en la próxima cuenta a formularse.
ARTICULO 12 Aviso de pago
1. El remitente de un giro podrá obtener un aviso de pago , mediante un derecho equivalente al percibido por la Administración de origen en concepto de aviso de recibo de la correspondencia certificada. Este derecho pertenecerá a la Administración de origen.
2. La Administración de destino extenderá el aviso de pago en un impreso, conforme al modelo F y lo remitirá al propio interesado , directamente, o a la Administración emisora para su entrega a aquél.
ARTICULO 13
Reexpedición
1. A petición del remitente o del destinatario de los giros , éstos podrán ser reexpedidos a otro país distinto , siempre que exista cambio de giros con el nuevo país de destino .
2. La Administración reexpedidora tendrá derecho a deducir del importe del giro las cuotas que le correspondan por concepto de los nuevos giros emitidos por ella, conforme a lo establecido en el artículo 6.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- EXCHANGE OF MONEY ORDERS- SEPT. 25, 1946
3. En caso de reexpedición , el giro se considerará como si hubiese sido pagado por la Administración reexpedidora , la cual lo incluirá en la cuenta por tal concepto, añadiendo la palabra "Reexpedición" .
ARTICULO 14
Legislación interior
Los giros postales que se cambien entre dos países estarán sujetos, en lo que concierne a su emisión y pago, a las disposiciones vigentes. en los países de origen o destino , según el caso , aplicables a los giros postales interiores.
ARTICULO 15
Formación de las listas
1. Cada Oficina de Cambio comunicará a la Oficina de Cambio corresponsal diariamente, o en las fechas que de mutuo acuerdo se señalen, las cantidades recibidas en su país para ser pagadas en el otro, haciendo uso del modelo A, anexo.
2. Todo giro postal anotado en las listas llevará un número progresivo que se denominará "número internacional" , comenzando el 1º de enero o el 19 de julio de cada año, según se convenga, con el número 1. Las listas llevarán, asimismo, un número de orden, comenzando por el número 1 , el 19 de enero o el 1º de julio de cada año . Cuando se produzca el cambio de numeración, la primera lista llevará también el último número de la serie anterior.
3. Las Oficinas de Cambio se acusarán recibo de cada lista por medio de la primera lista siguiente enviada en la dirección opuesta .
4. Cualquier lista que faltare será reclamada inmediatamente por la Oficina de Cambio que comprobare la falta . La Oficina de Cambio remitente, en tal caso , enviará lo antes posible, a la reclamante , un duplicado de la lista pedida, debidamente formalizado .
5. Con los giros expedidos por vía aérea se seguirá el mismo procedimiento establecido en los parágrafos precedentes pero utilizando listas del modelo A, caracterizadas con membrete o rótulo de color azul, para las que se llevará numeración independiente.
ARTICULO 16
Comprobación y rectificación de las listas
1. Las listas serán revisadas cuidadosamente por la Oficina de Cambio destinataria y corregidas cuando contengan simples errores. De estas correcciones será informada la Oficina de Cambio remitente, al acusársele recibo de la lista en que se hubieren hecho.
2. Cuando las listas contengan otras irregularidades, la Oficina de Cambio destinataria pedirá explicaciones a la remitente, la cual deberá informar en el plazo más breve posible. Entretanto se suspenderá la emisión de los giros postales interiores correspondientes a las mencionadas anotaciones irregulares.

3543

3544

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
ARTICULO 17
Pago de los giros
1. Al recibirse en una Oficina de Cambio una lista de giros con arreglo a lo dispuesto en el artículo 15 , dicha Oficina procederá a efectuar u ordenar el pago a los destinatarios en la moneda del país de destino de las cantidades que, en dicha moneda o en otra convenida, figuren en la lista , de conformidad con los reglamentos vigentes en cada país para el pago de los giros internacionales.
2. La Administración de destino procurará en todos los casos realizar sin demora el pago a los beneficiarios . Si transcurrido un mes de remitido el aviso al beneficiario no se hubiere efectuado el pago, se comunicará el hecho a la Administración de origen para que lo ponga en conocimiento del remitente.
3. Los duplicados de giros postales se expedirán solamente por la Administración del país emisor, de conformidad con su legislación interna y previa comprobación de que el giro no ha sido ni pagado al destinatario ni reembolsado el expedidor.
ARTICULO 18
Rendición y liquidación de cuentas
1. Salvo acuerdo en contrario , al final de cada trimestre, la Administración acreedora formulará la cuenta respectiva para la Administración corresponsal , en que conste:
a) Los totales de las listas que contengan el detalle de los giros emitidos en ambos países durante el trimestre ;
b) Los totales de los giros que hubieren sido reintegrados a los remitentes ;
c) Los totales de los giros que hubieren caducado durante el trimestre .
2. El haber de cada Administración se expresará en la moneda de su país.
El importe menor será convertido a la moneda del país acreedor con arreglo al cambio medio del trimestre a que se refiera la cuenta.
3. Esta cuenta, extendida en doble ejemplar, se enviará por la Administración que la haya formulado , a la Administración correspondiente .
Si el saldo resultare a favor de esta Administración , se pagará uniendo a la cuenta una letra a la vista sobre el país acreedor.
Si el saldo resultare a favor de la Administración que haya formulado la cuenta, el pago se llevará a cabo por la Administración deudora en la forma indicada en el párrafo anterior, al devolverse aceptada la cuenta .
Para la formación de esta cuenta trimestral se utilizarán los modelos B, C, D y E, anexos al presente Acuerdo .
4. También podrán entenderse las Administraciones para no efectuar conversiones, sino para realizar la liquidación unilateralmente ;

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-EXCHANGE OF MONEY ORDERS- SEPT. 25, 1946
esto es, para abonar cada Administración a la otra, el importe total de los giros pagados por su cuenta . En tal caso cada Administración habrá de formular una cuenta trimestral.
ARTICULO 19
Supresión de cuentas por intercambio de giros Las Administraciones podrán, previo mutuo acuerdo , suprimir la formación de cuentas a que se refiere el artículo anterior. En este caso, deberán comprometerse a enviar adjunto a cada lista de giros, modelo A, un cheque por el importe total de los mismos, aplicándose igual procedimiento cuando esté indicado el uso de los modelos C y D. Los cheques, salvo arreglo en contrario , serán expedidos en la moneda del país acreedor y, en estas condiciones, se hará la conversión por el cambio libre .
ARTICULO 20
Anticipos a buena cuenta Cuando resultare que una Administración deba a la otra, por cuenta de giros postales, un saldo que exceda de 25.000 francos oro, o la equivalencia aproximada de esta cantidad en su propia moneda, la Administración deudora deberá enviar a la acreedora, a la mayor brevedad posible y como anticipo a buena cuenta, una cantidad aproximada al saldo de la liquidación trimestral a que se refiere el artículo 18.
ARTICULO 21 Suspensión del servicio 1. Las Administraciones de los países contratantes podrán, en circunstancias extraordinarias, suspender temporalmente la emisión de giros postales y adoptar todas aquellas disposiciones que estimen convenientes, para salvaguardar sus intereses y evitar cualquier agio que pudiere intentarse cometer por medio del servicio de giros . 2. La Administración que adopte alguna de las medidas aludidas en el parágrafo anterior, deberá comunicarlo con toda urgencia a las Administraciones con quienes cambie giros postales.
ARTICULO 22
Proposiciones durante el intervalo de las reuniones
El presente Acuerdo podrá ser modificado en el intervalo que medie entre los Congresos , siguiendo el procedimiento establecido en el Convenio de la Unión Postal Universal. Para que tengan fuerza ejecutiva las modificaciones , deberán obtener:
a) unanimidad de sufragios si se trata de introducir nuevas disposiciones o de modificar los artículos 1 , 2 , 5 , 8 , 9 , 14 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 22 y 23 ;
b) dos tercios de sufragios para modificar los demás artículos.

3545

3546

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
ARTICULO 23
Vigencia y duración del Acuerdo
1. El presente Acuerdo empezará a regir el 19 de enero de 1947 y quedará en vigencia sin limitación de tiempo , reservándose cada una de las Altas Partes contratantes el derecho de denunciarlo , mediante aviso dado por su Gobierno al de la República Oriental del Uruguay, con un año de anticipación .
2. El depósito de las ratificaciones se hará en la ciudad de Río de Janeiro, República de los Estados Unidos del Brasil, en el más breve plazo posible. Se levantará un acta relativa al depósito de las ratificaciones de cada país, y el Gobierno del Brasil remitirá por la vía diplomática una copia de dicha acta a los Gobiernos de los demás países signatarios.
3. Quedan derogadas a partir de la fecha en que entre en vigor el presente Acuerdo las estipulaciones del Acuerdo de Giros Postales, suscrito en Panamá el 22 de Diciembre de 1936 .
4. En el caso de que el Acuerdo no fuere ratificado por uno o varios de los países contratantes, no dejará de ser válido para los que así lo hubieren hecho .
5. Los países contratantes podrán ratificar provisionalmente este Acuerdo por correspondencia , dando aviso de ello a las Administraciones respectivas por medio de la Oficina Internacional , sin perjuicio de que, según la legislación de cada país y previa aprobación de los Congresos Nacionales , sea confirmada por la vía diplomática.
En fe de lo cual, los Plenipotenciarios de los países enumerados suscriben el presente Acuerdo en la ciudad de Río de Janeiro , República de los Estados Unidos del Brasil , a los 25 días del mes de setiembre de mil novecientos cuarenta y seis.
Por ARGENTINA : OSCAR L. M. NICOLINI CARLOS M. LASCANO MANUEL PRECEDO DOMINGO B. CANALLE
Por BOLIVIA : JOSÉ LIÉVANA FORRASTAL RAFAEL BARRIENTOS
Por BRASIL : RAUL DE ALBUQUERQUE CARLOS LUIS TAVEIRA JAIME SLOAN CHERMONT AUREO MAIA JAIME DÍAS FRANÇA JOAQUIM VIANNA JULIO SÁNCHEZ PÉREZ CARLOS F. DE FIGUEIREDO

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- EXCHANGE OF MONEY ORDERS--SEPT. 25, 1946
Por COLOMBIA : LUIS GARCÍA CADENA LUIS JORGE GARZÓN
POR COSTA RICA: ROBERTO TINOCO GUTIÉRREZ
POR CUBA: GABRIEL LANDA Y CHAO JESÚS LAGO Lunar
POR CHILE : LUIS FELIPE LASO MIGUEL A. PARRA GUILLERMO JIMÉNEZ MORGAN
POR ECUADOR : RAFAEL ALVARADO
POR EL SALVADOR : Coronel CARLOS MEJÍA OSORIO
POR ESPAÑA : LUIS RODRÍGUEZ DE MIGUEL ELÍAS URDANGARAIN BERNACH
POR ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA:
JOHN J. GILLEN EDWARD J. MAHONEY POR ESTADOS UNIDOS DE VENEZUELA : PABLO CASTRO BECERRA FRANCISCO VELEZ SALAS CARLOS HARTMANN POR GUATEMALA : FLAVIO HERRERA POR HAITI : LUIS MORAIS JUNIOR POR HONDURAS : MARCO ANTONIO BATRES MANUEL SOTO DE PONTES CAMARA POR MEXICO: ANTONIO VILLALOBOS DIDIER DOMÍNGUEZ VALDÉS LAURO F. RAMÍREZ UMAÑA POR NICARAGUA: José MERCEDES PALMA POR PANAMA : CATALINO ARROCHA GRAELL JULIO TRELLES ROQUE JAVIER LAURENZA

3547

3548

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
POR PARAGUAY : ANÍBAL IBARRA G.
POR PERU: GERMÁN LLOSA PARDO ERNESTO CÁCERES BOLUARTE
POR República DOMINICANA : MIGUEL ANTONIO OLAVARRIETA PÉREZ
POR URUGUAY : ENRIQUE E. BUERO MIGUEL AGUERRE ARISTEGUI CÉSAR I. Rossi

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL--EXCHANGE OF MONEY ORDERS-SEPT. 25, 1946
PROTOCOLO FINAL DEL ACUERDO RELATIVO A GIROS POSTALES
En el momento de firmar el Acuerdo Relativo a Giros Postales celebrado por el V Congreso Postal Américoespañol , los Plenipotenciarios que suscriben, han convenido lo siguiente:
I
Los Estados Unidos de América hacen constar que no pueden aceptar las disposiciones de los artículos 9 y 12.
Río de Janeiro, a los 25 días de setiembre de 1946 . Por ARGENTINA: OSCAR L. M. NICOLINI CARLOS M. LASCANO MANUEL PRECEDO DOMINGO B. CANALLE Por BOLIVIA : José LIÉVANA FORRASTAL RAFAEL BARRIENTOS Por BRASIL : RAUL DE ALBUQUERQUE CARLOS LUIS TAVEIRA JAIME SLOAN CHERMONT AUREO MAIA JAIME DÍAS FRANÇA JOAQUIM VIANNA JULIO SÁNCHEZ PÉREZ CARLOS F. DE FIGUEIREDO Por COLOMBIA : LUIS GARCÍA CADENA LUIS JORGE GARZÓN Por COSTA RICA: ROBERTO TINOCO GUTIÉRREZ Por CUBA: GABRIEL LANDA Y CHAO JESÚS LAGO LUNAR Por CHILE : LUIS FELIPE LASO MIGUEL A. PARRA GUILLERMO JIMÉNEZ MORGAN Por ECUADOR : RAFAEL ALVARADO Por EL SALVADOR : Coronel CARLOS MEJÍA OSORIO
95347-50- PT. IV- -14

3549

3550

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Por ESPAÑA: LUIS RODRÍGUEZ DE MIGUEL ELÍAS URDANGARAIN BERNACH
Por ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA :
JOHN J. GILLEN EDWARD J. MAHONEY Por ESTADOS UNIDOS DE VENEZUELA : PABLO CASTRO BECERRA FRANCISCO VELEZ SALAS CARLOS HARTMANN Por GUATEMALA : FLAVIO HERRERA Por HAITI : LUIS MORAIS JUNIOR Por HONDURAS : MARCO ANTONIO BATRES MANUEL SOTO DE PONTES CAMARA Por MEXICO : ANTONIO VILLALOBOS DIDIER DOMÍNGUEZ VALDÉS LAURO F. RAMÍREZ UMAÑA Por NICARAGUA : José MERCEDES PALMA Por PANAMA : CATALINO ARROCHA GRAELL JULIO TRELLES ROQUE JAVIER LAURENZA Por PARAGUAY : ANÍBAL IBARRA G. Por PERU: GERMÁN LLOSA PARDO ERNESTO CÁCERES BOLUARTE Por República DOMINICANA: MIGUEL ANTONIO OLAVARRIETA PÉREZ Por URUGUAY :
ENRIQUE E. BUERO MIGUEL AGUERRE ARISTEGUI CÉSAR I. Rossi

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL--EXCHANGE OF MONEY ORDERS - SEPT. 25, 1946

Having examined and considered the provisions of the foregoing Agreement Relative to Money Orders and the Final Protocol thereto,

signed in the city of Rio de Janeiro , the United States of Brazil , on the twenty-fifth day of September, 1946 , the same are by me, by virtue of the powers vested by law in the Postmaster General , hereby ratified and approved , by and with the advice and consent of the President of the United States.

In witness whereof, I have caused the seal of the Post Office Department of the United States to be hereto affixed this 20th day of Febru-

ary, 1947.

[SEAL]

ROBERT E HANNEGAN Postmaster General.

I hereby approve the foregoing Agreement Relative to Money Orders and the Final Protocol thereto .

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF , I have caused the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed .

[SEAL]

HARRY S TRUMAN

By the President : G C MARSHALL Secretary of State.
WASHINGTON, February 27 , 1947.

3551

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL--EXCHANGE OF MONEY ORDERS-SEPT. 25, 1946

3553

ACUERDO RELATIVO A GIROS POSTALES
ANEXOS [ ']

' [The forms comprising the annexes have not been translated, for the Post Office Department uses the forms in the Spanish language text only in accordance with Article 17 of the convention signed at Rio de Janeiro Sept. 25, 1946 (Treaties and Other International Acts Series 1680) , which provides, with respect to the postal
territory constituting the Postal Union of the Americas and Spain, that "Spanish is adopted as the official language for matters relative to the postal service" (translation).]

Ante, p. 3511.

3554

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

A Lista núm..... Administración de Correos de...

Acuso a V. recibo de las listas señaladas a continuación , las
cuales han sido halladas conforme , salvo las modificaciones que se indican.

Número de
las listas

Fecha de
las listas

Números internacionales de los giros que comprenden las listas

IMPORTE DE LAS LISTAS

Ruego a V. que, a su vez , se sirva acusarme recibo de la

presente lista

de

de 19

El

Señor Jefe de la Oficina de Cambio de Giros Postales.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- EXCHANGE OF MONEY ORDERS-SEPT. 25, 1946

3555

A

Lista núm ..... LISTA DE LOS GIROS EMITIDOS EN..

Hoja núm ..

FECHA

Número Núme-

DE

internaro de

cional EMISION

Orden

de orden

OFICINA DE REMI-
SION

NOMBRE NOMBRE COMDEL REMI- PLETO DEL
TENTE DESTINATARIO

3556

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Y PAGADEROS EN..

..de ....

... de 19......

DIRECCION COMPLETA DEL DES. TINATARIO

Importe en moneda
TIPO DE CAMBIO

Importe en

Para uso de la Oficina en....
Número del Oficina
Paga- Observaciones giro dora interior

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-EXCHANGE OF MONEY ORDERS--SEPT. 25, 1946

3557

de

de 19

Examinadas, las listas cuyo recibo se avisa, se han hallado las siguientes irregularidades :

A la

3558

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

B

Mes de ......

de 19......

Cuenta detallada de los giros emitidos en..

-y

pagaderos_____en__ .

durante el citado mes .

NÚMEROS INTERNACIONALES DE Fecha ORDEN QUE COM. PRENDEN LA LISTA de las O LISTAS DE CADA
DIA

listas Desde el N.°

Hasta el N.°

TOTALES DE
LAS LISTAS
Importe en moneda

Fecha de las listas

NÚMEROS INTERNACIONALES DE ORDEN QUE COMPRENDEN LA LISTA O LISTAS DE CADA
DIA
Desde Hasta el N.° el N.°

TOTALES DE
LAS LISTAS
Importe en moneda

Suma anterior...

223 1 2345

1

2

24

4

25

5

26

6

27

7

28

8

29

9

30

10

31

11

12

13

14

TOTAL

15

16

17

18

____de 19---------

19

20

21

Suma y Sigue....

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- EXCHANGE OF MONEY ORDERS- SEPT. 25, 1946

3559

C

Lista de los giros emitidos e.n..

... sobre______

cuyo país de emisión ha sido autorizado para su

reembolso a los remitentes .

Número internacional de
orden

Número de orden

Fecha de OFICINA emisión DE EMISION

IMPORTE

OBSERVACIONES

TOTAL . de.

-de 19 ----

3560

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

D

Lista de los giros emitidos en..

... sobre.....

durante el mes de...

------ de 19 ------, que no han

sido pagados en doce meses a contar del de la emisión y por lo tanto han sido anulados.

Núm

Núm Fecha

interna-

Núm

Fecha

de la de la cional de de

lista lista de origen emision

orden

OFICINA DE EMISION

Oficina sobre la cual se libró el
giro

IMPORTE IMPORTE OBSEREN MONEDA EN MONEDA VA-
CIONES

TOTALES El

___.de 194 .--- ..

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-EXCHANGE OF MONEY ORDERS-SEPT. 25, 1946

3561

E ADMINISTRACION DE CORREOS CUENTA GENERAL del movimiento de giros postales
trimestre del año 19.________
HABER DE

Importe de los giros destinados al otro pais que han sido emitidos en ------ durante el trimestre

A deducir: Importe de los giros emitidos...
en ----------- que han sido
devueltos por el otro pais durante el trimestre.----------------
Importe de los giros emitidos---en --------------- que han sido
anulados por el otro pais durante el trimestre.............

A deducir:

Haber de..... Saldo anterior.

Baldo a favor de................... HECHO EN

.....de 19......

3562

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT

DE... cambiados entre ....

HABER DE

Importe de los giros destinados a ------- que han sido emitidos en el otro país durante el trimestre
A deducir: Importe de los giros emitidos en
el otro pais que han sido devueltos por -------- durante el trimestre...

Importe de los giros emitidos en

el otro país que han sido anu-

lados por

durante el

trimestre.---

A deducir:

Haber de.. Saldo anterior..

..durante el........................ .

Saldo a favor de___.
VISTO Y ACEPTADO EN ____de___

___de 19____

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL EXCHANGE OF MONEY ORDERS- SEPT. 25, 1946

3563

F (ANVERSO)

ADMINISTRACION DE CORREOS

DE ---

.-------- (1 )

GIRO POSTAL de.

registrado en la Oficina de Correos de el......... con el número................
expedido por el Sr.---------

ACUSE DE RECIBO
AVISO DE PAGO Sello de la Oficina
(1) A.............................remitente del aviso

y dirigido al Sr... ----------

SERVICIO DE CORREOS

(Lugar de destino) (Pais de destino)

(1) Elanverso lo llenará la Administración de origen. ...

(1) Lo llenará el remitente

(REVERSO)

EL INFRASCRITO DECLARA QUE EL GIRO MENCIONADO EN OTRO LUGAR HA SIDO

DEBIDAMENTE PAGADO EL

19.......

Sello de la oficina

destinataria

del destinatario,

FIRMA ( 1) del agente de la Oficina
destinataria

(1) Este aviso debe ser firmado por el destinatario o, sí los reglamentos del pais de destino lo consienten, por el agente de la Oficina destinataria, y devuelto por el primer correo, directamente al remitente

1

3564

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Translation Prepared by the Post Office Department

AGREEMENT RELATIVE TO MONEY ORDERS concluded between

54 Stat. 2049.

Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Chile, Ecuador, El Salvador, Spain, the United States of America, the United States of Venezuela, Guatemala, Haiti , Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru , the Dominican Republic and Uruguay.
The undersigned, Plenipotentiaries of the Governments of the countries mentioned, in exercise of the authority conferred by the Convention of the Universal Postal Union, agree ad referendum to execute the money order service, in accordance with the following clauses:
ARTICLE 1

Object of the agreement The exchange of money orders among the contracting countries whose Administrations agree to perform this service will be governed by the provisions of the present Agreement.
ARTICLE 2

Currency
The amount of the money orders will be expressed in the currency of the country of destination . Nevertheless the Administrations are authorized to adopt another currency by common consent if they deem it convenient.
ARTICLE 3

Conditions for the exchange of money orders

Ante, p. 3554.

1. The exchange of money orders between the contracting nations will be effected by means of lists conforming to model A attached,

Addition to forms "A".

which shall be forwarded to their destination by ordinary or air mail as the interested Administrations may agree.
2. Furthermore, upon previous agreement, an addition may be made to the aforementioned forms "A" at the request of the remitter

of the money order, or a private message addressed to the beneficiary,

Offices responsible for issuing lists.

relative to the respective remittance may be attached to the list. 3. Each Administration will designate the Offices of its country
which will be responsible for issuing the lists and for forwarding them

to the other Offices which will be designated by the other Administrations for the same purpose.

4. In case of force majeure which renders impossible the direct exchange of money orders , the issuing country, even without a request of the remitter or of the payee may redirect them, upon previous agree-

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-EXCHANGE OF MONEY ORDERS - SEPT. 25, 1946

3565

ment among the Administrations involved and subject to the aforementioned rules, to a different country that the latter, in its turn, may reforward them to their destination by the route which seems most practical for their delivery.
ARTICLE 4

Telegraphic money orders
The provisions of this Agreement will be extended to telegraphic money order service between the countries which agree to provide it. To this end they will adopt, by agreement among themselves , regulations to govern the service.
ARTICLE 5

Maximum amount of money orders
The Administrations of the countries which agree to provide this service will come to an agreement to fix the maximum amount of the money orders exchanged among them, but this amount may not be less than 300 gold francs or its equivalent in the respective currencies.
Nevertheless, money orders relating to the postal services and which are issued free of charge as provided in Article 9 , may exceed the limits fixed by any Administration .
ARTICLE 6

Rates and commission fees

1. The remitter of every money order issued in accordance with the provisions of the present Agreement must pay the fee fixed by the Administration of origin, in accordance with its regulations and the scales adopted and promulgated for its domestic service .
2. When money orders are sent by air mail or special delivery, the Administrations may collect the special rates and the established air mail surtaxes, which must not exceed those in effect for letters.

Special rates, etc.

ARTICLE 7

Endorsements

The contracting powers are authorized to permit, in their territories and in accordance with their domestic legislation, the endorsement of money orders originating in any country.
ARTICLE 8

Responsibility The Administrations will be responsible to the remitters for the amounts which these deposit for conversion into money orders, until they have been paid to the payees or endorsees .
ARTICLE 9

Exemption from charges
Orders relating to the service exchanged between Administrations or between the post offices of any Administration , as well as those
95247-50-PT. IV- 15

3566

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

sent to the International Office of Montevideo, and vice-versa, will be exempt from all charges .
ARTICLE 10

Period of validity of orders

1. In the absence of agreement to the contrary, every money

Money orders not paid within period.

order will be payable in the country of destination for a period of twelve months after issue.
2. The amount of the money orders which have not been paid within the period stipulated above will be credited to the Administration

Ante, p. 3560.

of origin, to which country there shall be sent for the purpose a form D with the detailed listing of such orders so that it can proceed in

accordance with its regulations.

ARTICLE 11

Request. Authorization.
Ante, p. 3563.

Change of address and repayment of order 1. When the remitter desires to correct an error in the address of the beneficiary or seeks repayment of a money order, he must make his request to the Administration of the country which issued the money order. 2. In general, no money order will be repaid without authorization of the Central Administration of the paying country. This authorization will be granted in a separate communication addressed to the Administration of origin and the total amount of the money orders whose reimbursement is allowed will be added to the next account to be made up .
ARTICLE 12
Advice of payment
1. The remitter of a money order may obtain a notice of payment for a fee equal to that collected by the Administration of origin for a return receipt for a registered letter. The fee will be retained by the Administration of origin .
2. The Administration of destination will issue the receipt on a printed form like model F and will send it directly to the interested party or to the Administration of origin for delivery to him.
ARTICLE 13
Reissuance

Deductions .

1. At the request of the remitter or payee of an order, it may be reforwarded to another country, whenever an exchange of money orders exists with the new country of destination.
2. The reissuing Administration will have the right to deduct from the amount of the order the fees due for the issuance of a new money order in accordance with Article 6 .
3. In case of reissuance , the order will be considered as having been paid by the reissuing Administrations, which will include it in the account for that purpose, adding the word "Reissued".

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- EXCHANGE OF MONEY ORDERS- SEPT. 25, 1946

3567

ARTICLE 14

Domestic legislation

Money orders exchanged between two countries will be governed by the provisions of the domestic legislation of the countries of origin and destination, applicable to domestic money orders, according to the case, in all matters relative to issuance and payment.

ARTICLE 15

Preparation of lists

Communication of 1. Each Exchange Office will communicate to the corresponding amounts.

Exchange Office, daily, or at times mutually agreed on, the amounts received in its country to be paid in the other, making use of model A,

Ante, p. 3554.

attached .
International num2. Each money order noted in the lists will bear a consecutive ber.

number to be known as the "international number " which numbering

will begin on January 1 or July 1 of each year as may be agreed upon, with the number 1. The lists will also have a serial number beginning

Serial number.

with number 1 on the first of January or first of July, of each year.

When a change in numbering occurs, the first list of the new series

will bear also the last number of the preceding series. Acknowledgment
3. The Exchange Offices will acknowledge the receipt of each list of receipt of list.

on the first subsequent list sent in the opposite direction. 4. When a list is not received, the Exchange Office which notices

Missing list.

the fact will claim it immediately. In such a case the sending Office

will send to the claiming Office a duly authenticated duplicate of the

missing list at the earliest possible moment . 5. With respect to money orders sent by air the same procedure
will be followed as that established in the above Sections , except that the lists of form A will be used , marked by a heading or label of blue

Money orders sent by air.
Ante, p. 3554.

color, and will carry a separate numbering.

ARTICLE 16

Verification and correction of the lists
1. The lists will be carefully examined by the receiving Exchange Office and corrected when they contain simple errors . The dispatching Exchange Office will be informed of such corrections when the receipt of the list is acknowledged.
2. When the lists are found to contain other irregularities the Exchange Office of destination will request explanations from the dispatching office, which must forward them at the earliest possible time. In the meantime the issuance of domestic money orders corresponding to the mentioned irregular notations will be suspended .

ARTICLE 17

Payment of orders.
1. When the Exchange Office receives a list as provided in Article 15 it will proceed to effect or order the payment to the payees, in the

3568

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

currency of the country of destination, of the amounts which appear

in the list in that currency or any other agreed upon according to the

regulations in effect in each country for the payments of international money orders.

Payments not effected .

2. The Administration of destination will endeavor to effect payment in all cases to payees without delay. If, one month after the mailing of the notice to the payee, the payment has not been effected , the fact will be communicated to the Administration of origin in

order that the remitter may be notified .

Duplicates ofmoney

orders.

3. Duplicates of money orders will be issued only by the Adminis-

tration of the reissuing country in accordance with its domestic legis-

lation and upon the previous proof that the money order has not

been paid to the payee or repaid to the remitter .

ARTICLE 18

Rendering and settlement of accounts Quarterly accounts.
1. In the absence of agreement to the contrary, the creditor Ad-
ministration at the end of every quarter will prepare the relative
account for the corresponding Administration which will contain in detail the following :

(a) The totals of the lists which give in detail the money orders issued in both countries during the quarter.
(b) The totals of the money orders which have been repaid to the remitters .

Credit balances.

(c) The totals of the money orders which have become invalid during the quarter.
2. The credit balance of each Administration will be expressed in

its own currency. The smaller amount will be converted into the currency of the
creditor country on the basis of the average rate of exchange which has prevailed during the quarter covered by the account.

3. This account, will be sent by the Administration which has

Sight drafts.

made it up, in duplicate to the corresponding Administration . If the balance is in favor of the latter Administration , it will be

paid by transmitting with the account of a sight draft on the creditor

country .

If the balance is in favor of the country which has rendered the account, the payment will be made by the debtor Administration in

the manner indicated in the preceding paragraph when the account is returned accepted .

Ante, pp. 3558-3561 .
Unilateral settlements .

These quarterly accounts will be prepared in accordance with Forms B, C, D and E, attached to the present Agreement .
4. Administrations may also agree not to make conversions, but to make unilateral settlements ; that is for each Administration to

credit the other with the total money orders it has paid on its account.

In this case each Administration will render a quarterly account.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- EXCHANGE OF MONEY ORDERS- SEPT. 25, 1946

3569

ARTICLE 19

Discontinuance of money orders accounts
By mutual agreement the Administrations may discontinue the accounting referred to in the preceding Article. In this event they undertake to attach a check for the total amount of the money orders when they forward Form A and adopt the same process when the use of Forms C and D are required.
In the absence of agreement to the contrary, the checks will be

Attachment of check to required Form .
Ante, p. 3554. Ante, pp. 3559, 3560. Conversion.

drawn in currency of the creditor country and the conversion will be

made on the basis of the open exchange.

ARTICLE 20

Advance payments on account
When an Administration owes another, on account of the money orders, a balance which is over 25,000 gold francs , or its approximate equivalent in its own money, the debtor Administration will send to the creditor Administration, as soon as possible, as an advance payment, a sum approximating its balance in the quarterly settlement referred to in Article 18.
ARTICLE 21

Suspension of service
1. The contracting Administrations under extraordinary circumstances may suspend the issuance of money orders temporarily and adopt such provisions as they deem necessary to safeguard their interests and to avoid any speculation through the money order service.
2. The Administration which adopts any of the measures referred to in the preceding paragraph should immediately notify all Administrations with which it exchanges money orders of the fact.

Notification.

ARTICLE 22

Propositions during the interval between meetings The present Agreement may be modified in the interval between the Congresses in accordance with the procedure established by the Convention of the Universal Postal Union. In order to become effective, the modifications must obtain: a) a unanimity of votes for the modifications of Articles 1 , 2, 5, 8,
9, 14, 18, 19, 20, 21 , 22 , and 23 ; b) two thirds of the votes to modify the other Articles.

54 Stat. 2049.

ARTICLE 23

Effective date and duration of this Agreement

1. The present Agreement will become effective on January 1 , 1947 , and will remain in effect without any time limit ; each of the contracting powers reserving the right to denounce it by means of a

3570

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

notification from its Government to the Government of the Oriental

Republic of Uruguay, sent one year in advance .

Deposit of ratifica-

tion .

2. The deposit of ratification will be made in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil,

at the earliest possible date. A certificate of the deposit of the rati-

fication of each country will be issued and the Brazilian Government

will send via diplomatic channels, a copy of the same to the Govern-

ments of all the signatory powers .

50 Stat. 1708.

3. The stipulations of the Money Order Agreement signed at Panama, December 22, 1936, are abrogated on the date when the present Agreement becomes effective .

4. In the event that this Agreement is not ratified by one or more

Provisional ratifica-
tion by correspondence .

countries it will still be valid for others who have ratified it. 5. The contracting powers may make provisional ratification of
this Agreement by correspondence, advising the respective Adminis-

trations through the intermediary of the International Office without

prejudicing the subsequent approval of the same by the National

Congresses according to domestic legislations and the confirmation

thereof by diplomatic channels .

Ante, p. 3546.

In faith of which the Plenipotentiaries of the above countries, sign the present Agreement in Rio de Janeiro on September 25 , 1946.
[For signatories to the Agreement see Spanish text .]

FINAL PROTOCOL OF THE MONEY ORDER AGREEMENT

At the time of signing the Money Order Agreement concluded by the Fifth Americo- Spanish Postal Congress, the signing Plenipotentiaries have agreed upon the following:

I

The United States of America advises that it cannot accept the

Ante, pp. 3565, 3566. provisions of Articles 9 and 12. RIO DE JANEIRO, September 25, 1946.

Ante, p. 3549.

[For signatories to the Final Protocol see Spanish text.]

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL--RESTITUTION OF MONETARY GOLD--NOV. 4, 1947 3571

Protocol between the United States of America, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and France and Austria respecting the restitution of monetary gold . Signed at London November 4 , 1947; entered into force November 4, 1947.

November 4, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1683]

3572

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STat.

PROTOCOL

THE Governments of the United States of America, the United

Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and the French

Republic, hereinafter referred to as "the Allied Governments con-

cerned," on the one hand, and the Government of Austria, on the other, have through the undersigned duly empowered representatives , agreed as follows:-

Austrian share.

1. The Allied Governments concerned agree that Austria should

receive a proportional share of the gold distributed pursuant to Part

III of the Agreement on Reparations from Germany, on the establish-

p.631180S.tat . , Pt . 3 ,

ment of an Inter-Allied Reparations Agency and on the Restitution of Monetary Gold signed at Paris on 14th January, 1946 , on the same basis as the countries signatory to the said agreement to the extent

that Austria can establish that a definite amount of monetary gold

belonging to it was looted by Germany, or, at any time after 12th

March, 1938 , was wrongfully removed into German territory.

2. Austria adheres to the arrangement for the restitution of monetary gold set forth in Part III of the aforementioned Agreement and declares that the portion of the monetary gold accruing to it under the Agreement is accepted in full satisfaction of all Austrian claims against Germany for restitution of monetary gold.

Authentic texts.

3. Austria accepts the arrangements which have been or will be made by the Allied Governments concerned for the implementation of the aforesaid .
Done in London this 4th day of November, 1947 , in the English and French languages, of which both texts are authentic, in a single copy which shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland by whom certified copies shall be transmitted to the other contracting Governments.
For the Government of the United States of America: L. W. DOUGlas.

For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: ERNEST BEVIN.
For the Government of the French Republic: R. MASSIGLI .
For the Government of Austria: H. SCHMID.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- RESTITUTION OF MONETARY GOLD- NOV. 4, 1947 3573
PROTOCOLE
Les Gouvernements des États-Unis d'Amérique , du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord , et de la République française, ci-après dénommés " Gouvernements alliés intéressés , " d'une part , et le Gouvernement autrichien, d'autre part, sont, par l'entremise de leurs représentants soussignés dûment munis des pouvoirs nécessaires , convenus de ce qui suit:
1. Les Gouvernements alliés intéressés sont d'accord pour que l'Autriche reçoive une part proportionnelle de l'or à répartir en application de la Partie III de l'Accord concernant les Réparations à recevoir de l'Allemagne, l'institution d'une Agence interalliée des Réparations et la Restitution de l'Or monétaire, signé à Paris le 14 janvier 1946 , sur la même base que les pays signataires dudit accord dans la mesure où l'Autriche pourra établir qu'une quantité déterminée d'or monétaire lui appartenant a fait l'objet de spoliations par l'Allemagne, ou, à une date quelconque après le 12 mars 1938, de transferts illégitimes en territoire allemand .
2. L'Autriche donne son adhésion à l'arrangement concernant la restitution de l'or monétaire figurant à la Partie III de l'accord mentionné ci-dessus et déclare que la quantité d'or monétaire lui revenant en vertu de l'accord est acceptée par elle en règlement complet de toutes les revendications autrichiennes contre l'Allemagne au titre des restitutions d'or monétaire.
3. L'Autriche accepte les arrangements qui ont été ou seront faits par les Gouvernements alliés intéressés pour l'application dudit arrangement .
Fait à Londres en un seul exemplaire le 4 novembre 1947 , en langues anglaise et française , les deux textes faisant foi. Cet exemplaire sera conservé dans les archives du Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord, qui en remettra des copies certifiées aux autres parties contractantes.
Pour le Gouvernement des États -Unis d'Amérique : L. W. DOUGLAS .
Pour le Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord: ERNEST BEVIN.
Pour le Gouvernement de la République française: R. MASSIGLI.
Pour le Gouvernement autrichien : H. SCHMID.

3574

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Certified a true copy. [ SEAL] LONDON

D. A. BIGBY

-7 Nov 1947

Acting Librarian and Keeper of the Papers for the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.

61 STAT. ] MEXICO-NON-AGRICULTURAL WORKERS-NOV. 15, 1946

3575

Agreement between the United States of America and Mexico respecting Mexican non-agricultural workers; termination of the agreement of April 29, 1943, and refund of deductions from salaries under the Railroad Retirement Act. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington November 15, 1946; entered into force November 15, 1946.

November 15, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1684]

The Acting Secretary of State to the Mexican Ambassador

WASHINGTON, D.C. November 15, 1946

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the agreement of April 29 , 1943 , between the Government of the United States of America and the

Government of the United Mexican States for the recruiting of Mexican non-agricultural workers to assist in the war effort of the

57 Stat. 1353.

United States, and to Your Excellency's note No. 9942 of January

2 , 1946 , [' ] and memorandum No. 3148 of June 18 , 1946 , [ ] regarding deductions from the workers' salaries under the Railroad Retirement Act.
The emergency situation which demanded the exertion of every possible effort to consummate the military defeat of the axis powers

49 Stat . 967. 45 U. S. C. §§ 215228Tenortmei. nation of agreement .

having come to an end, the services of this group of war workers which constituted such an important contribution to the success of the war effort are no longer necessary. Therefore, if it is agreeable to the Government of the United Mexican States, it is proposed that the agreement be terminated ninety days from December 1 , 1946 . In order to bring this about in accordance with the terms of the

General Provisions of the agreement under reference, the United

States Government hereby gives notification to the Government of the United Mexican States of its desire to terminate the agreement as

of March 1 , 1947.

The Government of the United States wishes again to express to

the Government of Mexico and to these workers its sincere appreciation of the wholehearted and effective cooperation of your Govern-

ment and of the very great services rendered by the workers. It is the understanding of the Government of the United States
that any outstanding accounts, other than those in the Railroad

Settlement of outstanding accounts.

Retirement Fund, due individual workers will continue to be settled

through channels already agreed upon and now in operation.

With regard

to

the

funds

deducted

from

the

salaries

of

these

Funds deducted from salaries of work-

Mexican workers in accordance with the provisions of the Railroad ers.

Retirement Act of the United States, the Government of the United States is aware that when the agreement of April 29, 1943 , was in the

57 Stat. 1353.

1 [Not printed.]

3576

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

process of negotiation, the position of the Mexican representatives was that the workers ' salaries should be exempt from such deductions

because they considered that the accompanying benefits could not

be administered effectively once the workers had departed from the

United States. It was found, however, that because of the terms of

the Railroad Retirement Act it was impossible to provide in the

agreement for such an exemption without delaying indefinitely the entire program.

The Government of the United States recognizes that the return

of these workers to their native country has made difficult the admin-

istration of the rights and benefits which the Railroad Retirement Act established in their favor. The Department is, therefore , disposed

to agree with Your Excellency that the funds deducted from the salaries of these Mexican workers should be returned to them.

Your Excellency will readily understand, however, that because of limitations of its constitutional procedure the Department of State

cannot make, in the absence of enabling legislation, a definite commit-

ment that this refund will be made. Nevertheless , the Department

does recognize the desirability of making the refund and of settling this question as soon as possible, and will endeavor to obtain from

the next Congress the authorization and appropriation necessary to

pay to the Government of the United Mexican States a lump sum equal to the total of all Railroad Retirement Board deductions from

the wages of these workers, less the deductions from any workers

Responsibility for individual payments.

whose benefits have been previously and duly liquidated . If the necessary legislation is obtained steps will be taken to effect the refund .
It is understood that if the appropriate administrative authorities of the United States be authorized to make the refund in the manner

set forth above, the Mexican Government, upon receipt of the lump

sum, will undertake to make the individual payments to each of the

Mexican workers concerned and will assume the responsibility for the distribution . In order to make it possible for the Mexican Govern-

ment to effect the distribution, the Government of the United States

would furnish Your Excellency's Government a list of the individual

Conditions.

workers concerned and of the amounts contributed by each one of them to the Railroad Retirement Fund.
It is further understood that the payment of the lump sum to the Mexican Government would be on the condition : ( 1 ) that the individuals involved would be barred forever from all rights and benefits which they acquired as a result of the deductions made under the Railroad Retirement Act ; (2) that the Mexican Government would be precluded from presenting any claim on its own behalf or on behalf of such individuals , either for recovery of their contributions to the Retirement Fund or on the basis of the rights or benefits under the retirement law; (3) that the Mexican Government will indemnify the Government of the United States on account of any claims or judgments which may be made or obtained by the individual workers for a refund of their contributions to the Railroad Retirement Fund, and (4) in the event any individual Mexican workman should return to the United States and be re-employed by an American railroad the

61 STAT.] MEXICO--NON-AGRICULTURAL WORKERS--NOV. 15, 1946

3577

Mexican Government will reimburse the Railroad Retirement Fund in the amount of the workman's prior contributions to the fund , plus necessary interest, provided , of course, that the individual worker in
question has not cancelled his claim by accepting a refund of the contributions which he made under his previous employment in accordance with the agreement of April 29 , 1943 .
If the foregoing suggestions are acceptable to the Mexican Government, it would be appreciated if Your Excellency would so inform the Department.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
For the Acting Secretary of State: SPRUILLE BRADEN
His Excellency Señor Dr. Don ANTONIO ESPINOSA DE LOS MONTEROS , Ambassador of Mexico.

57 Stat. 1353.

The Mexican Ambassador to the Secretary of State .
EMBAJADA DE MEXICO
WASHINGTON, D. C., 15 de noviembre de 1946.
SEÑOR SECRETARIO: Tengo la honra de acusar recibo de la atenta nota de Vuestra
Excelencia, fechada hoy 15 de noviembre de 1946 , relativa al arreglo consignado en el cambio de notas de 29 de abril de 1943 .
El Gobierno de México está de acuerdo con la sugestión de que se dé por terminado el citado arreglo el primero de marzo de 1947.
Cumplidamente agradezco a Vuestra Excelencia sus expresiones de agradecimiento por la magnífica cooperación que prestaron al esfuerzo bélico de nuestras dos Repúblicas los trabajadores mexicanos que se trasladaron a los Estados Unidos de acuerdo con los términos del arreglo de 29 de abril de 1943 .
En cuanto a las cantidades que aún se deben a los trabajadores individuales, excepción hecha de las relativas al fondo del Railroad Retirement, también el Gobierno de México tiene entendido que seguirán siendo liquidadas por los medios que al efecto han sido establecidos.
Con respecto de los descuentos que se hicieron de los salarios de los trabajadores en cumplimiento de la Ley del Railroad Retirement, la nota de Vuestra Excelencia que por la presente contesto dice textualmente lo siguiente:
"Con relación a los fondos descontados de los salarios de estos trabajadores mexicanos, de acuerdo con lo estipulado en el Railroad Retirement Act de los Estados Unidos , el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos está en antecedentes de que, cuando el arreglo de 29 de abril de 1943 estaba siendo negociado , el punto de vista de los

3578

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
representantes mexicanos fué el de que los salarios de los trabajadores deberían quedar exentos de semejantes descuentos porque consideraron que los beneficios resultantes no podrían ser administrados, en forma efectiva, cuando los trabajadores abandonaran los Estados Unidos . Se llegó a la conclusión, sin embargo, de que, por razón del Railroad Retirement Act, era imposible conceder tal exención en el arreglo sin demorar indefinidamente todo el programa.
"El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos reconoce que el regreso de estos trabajadores a su país de origen dificulta la administración de los derechos y beneficios que el Railroad Retirement Act estableció en su favor. El Departamento , por lo tanto , está dispuesto a convenir con Vuestra Excelencia en que los fondos descontados de los salarios de estos trabajadores mexicanos deben serles devueltos.
"No obstante lo anterior, Vuestra Excelencia fácilmente comprenderá que el Departamento de Estado, por razón de las limitaciones que fijan los procedimientos de su Constitución, no puede contraer, sin la legislación que lo permita, un compromiso definitivo de que esta devolución se llevará a cabo . Sin embargo , el Departamento sí reconoce que es deseable hacer la devolución y arreglar este asunto tan pronto como sea posible, y se esforzará por obtener de la siguiente Legislatura la autorización y la partida presupuestal necesarias para pagar al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos una cantidad global igual al total de todos los descuentos hechos por el Railroad Retirement Board a los salarios de estos trabajadores, menos el monto de los descuentos a aquellos trabajadores cuyos beneficios hayan sido previa y debidamente cubiertos. Si llegare a obtenerse la legislación requerida se darán pasos para efectuar la devolución.
"Se tiene entendido que si las autoridades administrativas competentes fueren autorizadas a hacer la devolución de la manera arriba mencionada, el Gobierno mexicano, al recibir la cantidad global, se encargará de hacer los pagos individuales a cada uno de los trabajadores mexicanos interesados y asumirá la responsabilidad de la distribución . Con el fin de que el Gobierno mexicano pueda efectuar la distribución, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos facilitaría al Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia una lista de los trabajadores individuales interesados y de las cantidades contribuídas por cada uno de ellos al fondo del Railroad Retirement.
"Se tiene entendido , además, que el pago de la cantidad global al Gobierno de México se haría con la condición de que : ( 1 ) los interesados para siempre quedarían imposibilitados para gozar de los derechos y beneficios que adquirieron como resultado de los descuentos hechos según el Railroad Retirement Act; (2) el Gobierno de México quedaría imposibilitado para presentar cualquiera reclamación en su propio favor o en el de tales interesados , ya fuera por pago de sus contribuciones al fondo de Railroad Retirement Act o basada en los derechos o beneficios otorgados por la Ley de Railroad Retirement; (3 ) el Gobierno de México indemnizará al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos por cualesquiera reclamaciones o sentencias que pudiesen ser presentadas u obtenidas en favor de

61 STAT. ] MEXICO- NON-AGRICULTURAL WORKERS- NOV. 15, 1946

3579

los trabajadores individuales para la devolución de sus contribuciones al fondo de Railroad Retirement; y (4) en el caso de que cualquier trabajador mexicano regresara a los Estados Unidos y volviera a ser empleado por un ferrocarril norteamericano, el Gobierno de México reembolsaría al fondo de Railroad Retirement una cantidad
equivalente a las contribuciones anteriores de ese trabajador al fondo más los intereses necesarios, quedando entendido, por supuesto, que en tal caso el trabajador individual no hubiera cancelado su reclamación mediante la aceptación del reintegro de las contribuciones que haya hecho durante su anterior empleo y de acuerdo con el arreglo de 29 de abril de 1943".

En cumplimiento de instrucciones de mi Gobierno, acepto las

sugestiones contenidas en los párrafos de la nota de Vuestra Excelencia que acabo de transcribir.

Aprovecho la oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Excelencia el

testimonio de mi más alta y distinguida consideración . A E DE LOS MONTEROS

Excelentísimo Señor JAMES F. BYRNES ,

Embajador.

Secretario de Estado,

Washington, D. C.

Translation

EMBASSY OF MEXICO

MR. SECRETARY :

WASHINGTON, D. C. November 15, 1946.

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's courteous note of this date, November 15, 1946 , relative to the agreement set forth in the exchange of notes of April 29, 1943.
The Government of Mexico is in accord with the suggestion that

the aforementioned agreement be considered terminated on March 1, 1947.

I thank Your Excellency most sincerely for your expressions of

gratitude for the magnificent cooperation given to the war effort of our two Republics by those Mexican workers who went to the United States in accordance with the terms of the agreement of April 29 , 1943.

With regard to the amounts which are still owed to the individual workers, with the exception of those coming under the Railroad Retirement Act, it is also the understanding of the Government of Mexico that they shall continue to be settled through the channels which have been established for that purpose.

With reference to the deductions from the workers' salaries under

the Railroad Retirement Act, Your Excellency's note, to which I am

replying by means of the present communication, states literally the following:

Ante, p. 3575. 57 Stat. 1353.

"With regard to the funds deducted from the salaries of these Mexican workers in accordance with the provisions of the Railroad Retirement Act of the United States, the Government of the United

3580 57 Stat. 1353.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
States is aware that when the agreement of April 29, 1943, was in the process of negotiation , the position of the Mexican representatives was that the workers' salaries should be exempt from such deductions because they considered that the accompanying benefits could not be administered effectively once the workers had departed from the United States. It was found, however, that because of the terms of the Railroad Retirement Act it was impossible to provide in the agree-
ment for such an exemption without delaying indefinitely the entire program .
"The Government of the United States recognizes that the return of these workers to their native country has made difficult the administration of the rights and benefits which the Railroad Retirement Act established in their favor. The Department, is, therefore , disposed to agree with Your Excellency that the funds deducted from the salaries of these Mexican workers should be returned to them .
"Your Excellency will readily understand, however, that because of limitations of its constitutional procedure the Department of State cannot make, in the absence of enabling legislation, a definite commitment that this refund will be made. Nevertheless , the Department does recognize the desirability of making the refund and of settling this question as soon as possible, and will endeavor to obtain from the next Congress the authorization and appropriation necessary to pay to the Government of the United Mexican States a lump sum equal to the total of all Railroad Retirement Board deductions from the wages of these workers, less the deductions from any workers whose benefits have been previously and duly liquidated . If the necessary legislation is obtained steps will be taken to effect the refund .
"It is understood that if the appropriate administrative authorities be authorized to make the refund in the manner set forth above, the Mexican Government, upon receipt of the lump sum, will undertake to make the individual payments to each of the Mexican workers concerned and will assume the responsibility for the distribution. In order to make it possible for the Mexican Government to effect the distribution , the Government of the United States would furnish Your Excellency's Government a list of the individual workers concerned and of the amounts contributed by each one of them to the Railroad Retirement Fund.
"It is further understood that the payment of the lump sum to the Mexican Government would be on the condition : ( 1 ) that the individuals involved would be barred forever from all rights and benefits which they acquired as a result of the deductions made under the Railroad Retirement Act; (2) that the Mexican Government would be precluded from presenting any claim on its own behalf or on behalf of such individuals , either for recovery of their contributions to the Railroad Retirement Fund or on the basis of the rights or benefits under the Railroad Retirement Law; (3) that the Mexican Government will indemnify the Government of the United States on account of any claims or judgments which may be made or obtained by the individual workers for a refund of their contributions to the Railroad

61 STAT.] MEXICO- NON-AGRICULTURAL WORKERS- NOV. 15, 1946

3581

Retirement Fund; and (4) in the event any individual Mexican workman should return to the United States and be re-employed by a North American railroad the Mexican Government will reimburse the Railroad Retirement Fund in the amount of the workman's prior contributions to the fund, plus necessary interest, provided , of course, that the individual worker in question has not cancelled his claim by accepting a refund of the contributions which he made under his previous employment in accordance with the agreement of April 29, 1943."
In compliance with instructions from my Government, I accept the suggestions contained in those paragraphs of Your Excellency's note which I have just transcribed .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the expression of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
A E DE LOS MONTEROS Ambassador.
His Excellency JAMES F. BYRNES,
Secretary of State, Washington, D. C.

57 Stat. 1353.

95347-50-PT. IV- -16

3582

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

November 10, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1687]

Agreement between the United States of America and China respecting a United States Educational Foundation in China. Signed at Nanking November 10, 1947; entered into force November 10, 1947.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA AND
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA FOR THE USE OF FUNDS MADE AVAILABLE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 6 b . ( 1 ) OF THE SURPLUS WAR PROPERTY SALES AGREEMENT OF AUGUST 30 , 1946 .

61 STAT. ] CHINA- EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-NOV. 10, 1947

3583

The Government of the United States of America and the Govern-

ment of the Republic of China,

Desiring to promote further mutual understanding between the peoples of the United States of America and the Republic of China by a wider exchange of knowledge and professional talents through educational contacts,

Considering that Section 32 (b) of the United States Surplus

Property Act of 1944 , as amended (Public Law No. 584 , 79th Congress ; 60 Stat. 754 ) , provides that the Secretary of State of the United States of America may enter into an agreement with any foreign government for the use of currencies or credits for currencies of such foreign

50 U. S. C. app. §1641 (b).

government acquired as a result of surplus property disposals for

certain educational activities, and

Considering that under the provisions of the agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of

the Republic of China for the sale of certain surplus war property, signed at Shanghai on August 30, 1946 , [ ] it is provided that the Government of the Republic of China shall make available to the Government of the United States of America the equivalent of $ 20,000,000 (United States currency ) for research , instruction , and other educational activities under the terms of Section 32 (b ) of the Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended ,
Have agreed as follows:

Article 1

There shall be established in the capital city of China a foundation

United States Educational Foundation

to be known as the United States Educational Foundation in China in China.

(hereinafter designated "the Foundation " ) , which shall be recognized by the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of China as an organization created and established to facilitate the administration of the educational program to be

financed by funds made available by the Government of the Republic of China in accordance with Article 6 b . ( 1 ) of the agreement for the

sale of certain surplus war property signed at Shanghai on August 30,

1946. [ ] Except as provided in Article 3 hereof the Foundation shall be exempt from the domestic and local laws of the United States of

America as they relate to the use and expenditure of currencies and

credits for currencies for the purposes set forth in the present agree-

ment .

The funds made available by the Government of the Republic of Use offunds.

China shall be used by the Foundation for the purpose, as set forth in Section 32 (b) of the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944 , as amended, of

60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S. C. app. § 1641 (b) .

(1 ) financing studies, research, instruction, and other educational activities of or for citizens of the United States of America in schools and institutions of higher learning located in China, or of the citizens of China in United States schools and institutions of higher learning located outside the continental United
[Not printed.]

3584

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

States, Hawaii, Alaska (including the Aleutian Islands) , Puerto

Rico, and the Virgin Islands, including payment for transporta-

tion, tuition, maintenance, and other expenses incident to scholastic activities ; or

(2) furnishing transportation for citizens of China who desire to

attend United States schools and institutions of higher learning in the continental United States, Hawaii, Alaska (including the Aleutian Islands) , Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands and whose attendance will not deprive citizens of the United States of America of an opportunity to attend such schools and institutions .

Article 2

Powers of Founda tion .
Post, p. 3586.

In furtherance of the aforementioned purposes , the Foundation may, subject to the provisions of Article 10 of the present agreement, exercise all powers necessary to the carrying out of the purposes of this agreement including the following:

(1) Receive funds.
(2) Open and operate bank accounts in the name of the Foundation in a depository or depositories to be designated by the Secretary of State of the United States of America.

(3) Disburse funds and make grants and advances of funds for the authorized purposes of the Foundation.

60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S. C. app.
§ 1641 (b).

(4) Acquire, hold , and dispose of property in the name of the Foundation as the Board of Directors of the Foundation may consider necessary or desirable, provided however that the acquisition of any real property shall be subject to the prior approval of the Secretary of State of the United States of America and also to such conditions and requirements as are or may be prescribed by laws and regulations enforced in the territory where the property is situated .
(5) Plan, adopt, and carry out programs, in accordance with the purposes of Section 32 (b) of the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended , and the purposes of this agreement.
(6) Recommend to the Board of Foreign Scholarships provided for in the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944 , as amended, students, professors , research scholars, resident in China, and institutions of China qualified to participate in the program in accordance with the aforesaid Act.

(7) Recommend to the aforesaid Board of Foreign Scholarships such qualifications for the selection of participants in the programs as it may deem necessary for achieving the purpose and objectives of the Foundation.
(8) Provide for periodic audits of the accounts of the Foundation as directed by auditors selected by the Secretary of State of the United States of America.

(9) Engage administrative and clerical staff and fix and pay the salaries and wages thereof.

61 STAT. ] CHINA-EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- NOV. 10, 1947

3585

Article 3
All expenditures by the Foundation shall be made pursuant to an annual budget to be approved by the Secretary of State of the United States of America pursuant to such regulations as he may prescribe.
Article 4
The Foundation shall plan its annual programs in such a way that full use shall as far as possible be made of the funds made available to the Foundation for each year . The Foundation shall not enter into any commitments or create any obligation which shall bind the Foundation in excess of the funds to be received during any given calendar year.
Article 5
The management and direction of the affairs of the Foundation shall be vested in a Board of Directors (hereinafter designated the "Board") consisting of five Directors .
The Principal Officer in Charge of the Diplomatic Mission of the United States of America to the Republic of China (hereinafter, designated "Chief of Mission ") shall be Chairman of the Board. He shall have the power of appointment and removal of members of the Board at his discretion. The four other members of the Board shall be as follows:

Annual budget. Annual programs.
Board of Directors. Chairman.

(a) two members of the Embassy Staff, one of whom shall serve as treasurer ; and (b) two citizens of the United States of America, one representative of American business interests in China and one representative of American educational interests in China .
The two members specified in (b) of the last preceding paragraph shall be resident in China and shall serve from the time of their appointment until the succeeding December 31 next following such appointment. They shall be eligible for reappointment . All the four members shall be designated by the Chief of Mission . Vacancies by reason of resignations , transfers of residence outside of China, expiration of term of service, or otherwise shall be filled in accordance with this procedure .
The Chinese Government shall appoint a number of Advisers to the Board not to exceed five, who may attend all the meetings of the Board and participate in its discussions . The Advisers shall have no vote but their opinion shall be given due consideration by the Board at all its deliberations .
The Directors and Advisers shall serve without compensation , but the Foundation is authorized to pay the necessary expenses of the Directors and Advisers in attending meetings of the Board.

Advisers.

Article 6
The Board shall adopt such by-laws and appoint such committees as it shall deem necessary for the conduct of the affairs of the Foundation .

By-laws, etc.

3586

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Reports.

Article 7
Reports as directed by the Secretary of State of the United States of America shall be made annually on the activities of the Foundation to the Secretary of State of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of China.

Article 8

Principal office, etc. The principal office of the Foundation shall be in the capital city

of China, but meetings of the Board and any of its committees may

be held in such other places as the Board may from time to time

determine , and the activities of any of the Foundation's officers or

staff may be carried on at such places as may be approved by the Board.

Article 9

Executive Officer.

The Board may appoint an Executive Officer and determine his

salary and term of service , provided , however , that in the event it is found to be impracticable for the Board to secure an appointee acceptable to the Chairman, the Government of the United States

of America may provide an Executive Officer and such assistants as may be deemed necessary to ensure the effective operation of the program. The Executive Officer shall be responsible for the direc-

tion and supervision of the Board's programs and activities in accordance with the Board's resolutions and directives . In his absence or

disability , the Board may appoint a substitute for such time as it deems necessary or desirable.

Article 10

Decisions of the Board.

The decisions of the Board in all matters may, in the discretion of the Secretary of State of the United States of America, be subject to his review.

Article 11

Deposits.

The Government of the Republic of China shall, within 30 days of the date of the signature of the present agreement, deposit with the Treasurer of the United States of America an amount of Chinese

national currency equivalent to $250,000 (United States currency) . Thereafter commencing with January 1 , 1948, the Government of the Republic of China shall during each calendar year, deposit with the Treasurer of the United States of America , upon demand of the United States Government , amounts of Chinese national currency not

to exceed the equivalent of one million dollars (United States currency) and in aggregate totalling the equivalent of $ 20,000,000 (United States currency) . The first deposit of Chinese national currency equivalent to $250,000 (United States currency) shall be considered as part of the deposit for the calendar year 1948. The rate of exchange between currency of the Government of the Republic of China and United States currency to be used in determining the amount of currency of the Government of the Republic of China to be deposited from time to time hereafter, shall be at the par value between Chinese

61 STAT. ] CHINA-EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-- NOV. 10, 1947

3587

dollars and United States dollars established in conformity with pro-

cedures of the International Monetary Fund or in the absence of such a par value the rate shall be the open market rate as established by the Central Bank of China. Should this latter rate for any reason appear to be inequitable or be abolished , the rate can be the subject of discussion between the Governments of the United States of America and of the Republic of China.
The Secretary of State of the United States of America will make available to the Foundation Chinese national currency in such

amounts as may be required by the Foundation, but in no event in

excess of the budgetary limitation established pursuant to Article 3

of the present agreement.

Article 12

Ante, p. 3585.

"Secretary of State Wherever, in the present agreement, the term "Secretary of State of ofthe United States of the United States of America" is used , it shall be understood to mean America."
the Secretary of State of the United States of America or any officer or
employee of the Government of the United States of America desig-
nated by him to act in his behalf.

Article 18
Amendment of The present agreement may be amended by the exchange of diplo- agreement. matic notes between the Government of the United States of America

and the Government of the Republic of China.

Article 14

The present agreement shall come into force upon the date of signature .

Entry into force.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present agreement .
DONE at Nanking, in duplicate, in the English and Chinese languages, this tenth day of November, 1947 , corresponding to the tenth day of the eleventh month of the thirty-sixth year of the Republic of China .

height Shwork [" For the Government of the United States of America

[2] the Wany Shah- chestie 191
For the Government of the Republic of China
[J. Leighton Stuart] [Wang Shih-chieh]

3588

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

[¹] ******* heightonShort
[2]  


E 1 [J. Leighton Stuart] * [Wang Shih-chieh]

3589

61 STAT. ] CHINA-EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION----NOV. 10, 1947

       
          
                    1   X             

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

,          ,        

     

      

  

         

    

 

      

          

3590

3591

  (    

61 STAT. ] CHINA-EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- NOV. 10, 1947

        

           



    

   (  

.

        (    
      

         

     

  

     

    



INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

                              
          
                
          ,

3592

3593

61 STAT. ] CHINA- EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- NOV. 10, 1947

          .
                              
              , 

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

                

             

      ,  

 

       

 .  

         

3594

3595

61 STAT.] CHINA- EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-NOV. 10, 1947

    

    

  

1     3     

   1  .

           
           
       
       

   .

        

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

        
             
 ,      1    
            (       

3596

3597

   

 





  ( )



  

 

61 STAT. ] CHINA-EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-NOV. 10, 1947

                

95347°-50 --PT. IV- -17



() 

      .



 





     

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

                                              
          u      



       



               

3598

3599

61 STAT. ] CHINA-EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-NOV. 10, 1947

   
                        
) .  ( )      -               , ( )          

 ( ) 

3600

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

      



 '    

 ( )     (           
     

   

.     



 











  

  

 

     

   

 
  
   
      

 

 
 



 











61 STAT. ] CHINA-EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-NOV. 10, 1947

3601

 

                   

    

 

     

( )      

 





 

( ) 



  





  

 



 

 





   

 







 







  





 

()  


   







  





3602

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

    

 ( )     

  )  

   





  





















 

 

 

   

 

 

     



+  



  





 

 ( ) 



 

 ,   



 

3603



61 STAT. ] CHINA-EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION -NOV. 10, 1947

     ,        
       
         
   ( x             x  )                
       ,     ,



3604

 

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

61 STAT.] SWEDEN-EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS-DEC. 16, 1947

3605

Agreement between the United States of America and Sweden respecting the exchange of official publications. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Stockholm December 16, 1947; entered into force December 16, 1947.

December 16, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1688]

The American Ambassador to the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 15 EXCELLENCY :

Stockholm, December 16, 1947

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have taken

place between representatives of the Government of the United States of America and representatives of the Government of Sweden in re-

gard to the exchange of official publications, and to inform Your Excellency that the Government of the United States of America agrees that there shall be an exchange of official publications between the two Governments in accordance with the following provisions :

1. Each of the two Governments shall furnish regularly a copy of each of its official publications which are indicated in a selected list prepared by the other Government and communicated through diplomatic channels subsequent to the conclusion of the present agreement. The list of publications selected by each Government may be revised from time to time and may be extended, without the necessity of subsequent negotiations, to include any other official publication of the other Government not specified in the list, or publications of new offices which the other Government may establish in the future.
2. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of the United States of America shall be the Smithsonian Institution. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of Sweden shall be the
Royal Swedish Library. 3. The publications shall be received on behalf of the United
States of America by the Library of Congress and on behalf of the Kingdom of Sweden by the Royal Swedish Library.
4. The present agreement does not obligate either of the two Governments to furnish blank forms, circulars which are not of a public character, or confidential publications.
5. Each of the two Governments shall bear all charges, including postal, rail and shipping costs , arising under the present agreement in connection with the transportation within its own country of the publications of both Governments and the shipment of its own publications to a port or other appropriate place reasonably convenient to the exchange office of the other Government.

3606

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

6. The present agreement shall not be considered as a modification of any existing exchange agreement between a department or agency of one of the Governments and a department or agency of the other Government.

Upon the receipt of a note from Your Excellency indicating that the foregoing provisions are acceptable to the Government of Sweden , the Government of the United States of America will consider that this

note and your reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, the agreement to enter into force on the date of your note in reply.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration.

His Excellency ÖSTEN UNDÉN,

H. FREEMAN MATTHEWS

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Stockholm.

The Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

ROYAL SWEDISH MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS

SIR,

STOCKHOLM, December 16, 1947.

With reference to your note of December 16, 1947, and to the con-

versations between representatives of the Government of the United

States of America in regard to the exchange of official publications,

I have the honor to inform you that the Government of Sweden

agrees that there shall be an exchange of official publications between the two Governments in accordance with the following provisions :

1. Each of the two Governments shall furnish regularly a copy of each of its official publications which are indicated in a selected list prepared by the other Government and communicated through diplomatic channels subsequent to the conclusion of the present agreement. The list of publications selected by each Government may be revised from time to time and may be extended , without the necessity of subsequent negotiations, to include any other official publication of the other Government not specified in the list, or publications of new offices which the other Government may establish in the future.
2. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of the United States of America shall be the Smithsonian Institution . The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of Sweden shall be the Royal Swedish Library.
3. The publications shall be received on behalf of the United States of America by the Library of Congress and on behalf of the Kingdom of Sweden by the Royal Swedish Library.

61 STAT. ] SWEDEN- EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS- DEO. 16, 1947
4. The present agreement does not obligate either of the two Governments to furnish blank forms, circulars which are not of a public character, or confidential publications.
5. Each of the two Governments shall bear all charges, including postal, rail and shipping costs, arising under the present agreement in connection with the transportation within its own country of the publications of both Governments and the shipment of its own publications to a port or other appropriate place reasonably convenient to the exchange office of the other Government.
6. The present agreement shall not be considered as a modification of any existing exchange agreement between a department or agency of one of the Governments and a department or agency of the other Government.
The Government of Sweden considers that your note and this reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, the agreement to enter into force on the date of this note.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration. ÖSTEN UNDÉN
M. H. FREEMAN MATTHEWS, Ambassador Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America etc. etc. etc.

3607

3608

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

December 17, 1947 [T. I. A. 8. 1689]

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting the economic fusion of American and British zones of occupation in Germany, amending the agreement of December 2, 1946. Signed at Washington December 17, 1947 ; entered into force December 17, 1947.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND AMENDING CERTAIN TERMS OF THE BIZONAL FUSION AGREEMENT SIGNED AT NEW YORK ON DECEMBER 2, 1946.

p.621478S.tat . , Pt . 3 ,

WHEREAS paragraph 12 of the Bizonal Fusion Agreement signed at New York on December 2, 1946, provides for its amendment by mutual agreement,

AND WHEREAS the Government of the United Kingdom have re-

quested the Government of the United States to take part in discus-

sions with a view to revising, in the light of current international

financial developments, the provisions of the Bizonal Fusion Agreement which relate to the division of responsibility for the payment for

imports ,

AND WHEREAS the Government of the United Kingdom have rep-

resented that they are unable to continue to make payments in dollars in respect of such imports,

AND WHEREAS it is the intention of the two Governments to develop ,

in that part of Germany which is subject to their jurisdiction, an economy which can be maintained without financial assistance from either

Government , AND WHEREAS the representatives of the two Governments have en-

tered into and completed discussions regarding the revision of the terms of the Bizonal Fusion Agreement as requested by the Government of the United Kingdom ,
IT HAS BEEN AGREED by the Government of the United States and

the Government of the United Kingdom as follows :-

Financial Responsibility for the period ending December 31, 1948.

anCdatseegrovricyesA; Ug.ooKd.s 1 (a ) The Government of the United Kingdom shall have no further

liability.

liability to pay dollars for Category A goods and services imported

into the United States and United Kingdom Zones of Occupation in

Germany (hereinafter called the "Bizonal Area") . The liability of the Government of the United Kingdom to supply Category A goods

and services shall, subject to the provision of the necessary appro-

priations, be discharged by the provision of:-

61 STAT. ]

UNITED KINGDOM- GERMANY- DEC. 17, 1947

3609

(i) all deliveries which may be made in the period November 1, 1947, to December 31, 1947 ( to the estimated value of £3,500,000, approximately the equivalent of $ 14,000,000) , against commitments already undertaken by the Government of the United Kingdom for procurement from sterling area sources, together with such other sterling area purchases as the Government of the United Kingdom may be able to make for delivery within the period (to an estimated value of £1,000,000 , approximately the equivalent of $4,000,000) ; and
(ii ) goods, services or sterling against commitments already undertaken by the Government of the United Kingdom for procurement of Category A supplies for the Bizonal Area from countries outside the sterling area to a total value of £4,000,000 (approximately the equivalent of $ 16,000,000 ) . ( The Government of the United Kingdom shall pay for any such goods which can be delivered against sterling payment in the period November 1 , 1947, to December 31, 1947, and any charges which may be involved in the cancellation of outstanding contracts and shall pay the balance of the sum mentioned above to the Joint ExportImport Agency in sterling ) ; and
(iii) a sum of £4,250,000 ( approximately the equivalent of $ 17,000,000 ) in discharge of the obligations undertaken by the Government of the United Kingdom in accordance with the provisions of the Bizonal Fusion Agreement for the procurement for delivery after December 31, 1947, of Category A supplies for the Bizonal Area from countries outside the sterling area. (This sum shall be held by the Government of the United Kingdom and shall be used for the purchase of Category A supplies and services from the sterling area and shall be spent, with the agreement of the Joint Export-Import Agency, as and when it may be possible to purchase such supplies or services without involving a direct or indirect dollar drain upon the United Kingdom. ) ; and
(iv) Category A goods from the sterling area during the calendar year 1948 and services to be rendered during the same period ( as set forth in the Annex to the present Agreement ) to the total value of £17,500,000 (approximately the equivalent of $70,000,000) .
Services to be pro(b) The services to be provided by the Government of the United vided by U. K. Kingdom under the terms of the preceding sub-paragraph of this paragraph shall include the furnishing, so far as is practicable, of such ships as may be necessary to lift thirty-three complete cargoes allocated for shipment to the Bizonal Area from United States ports in the period November 1 , 1947, to December 31 , 1947, and the furnishing during the calendar year 1948 of a sufficient number of freight ships to lift twelve complete cargoes for the Bizonal Area each month from United States Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports ; subject to market possibilities, such freight ships shall be chartered

3610

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

for three consecutive voyages on Bizonal account or approximately for a period of six months.

meCnattsegtoorbyeApreoqvuiidreed by U. S.

(c) Subject to the provision of the necessary appropriations, the balance of the Category A requirements for the Bizonal Area in the period November 1 , 1947, to December 31 , 1948, shall be provided by the Government of the United States.

buAtciocnosu.nt of contri-

(d ) It shall be the responsibility of the Joint Export-Import Agency to keep an account of the contributions made by the two Governments in accordance with the provisions of the preceding subparagraphs of this paragraph and to establish that the valuations

placed on the goods and services so furnished are fair and reasonable.
Expenditure incurred for mainte- 2. The financial liability of the two Governments under the present nance of forces, etc.
Agreement is exclusive of whatever expenditure may be incurred
by either Government for the maintenance of forces of occupation and
control staff for Germany.

Trade between the Bizonal Area and the Sterling Area.

Payments.

3 ( a) The Joint Export-Import Agency shall enter into immediate negotiations with representatives of the Government of the United Kingdom with a view to drawing up a plan to maximize trade in both directions between the Bizonal Area and the sterling area. The United States and British Military Governors in Germany shall co-operate with representatives of the Government of the United Kingdom for the purpose of meeting the needs of the United Kingdom for heavy steel scrap and timber to the greatest extent consistent with the requirements of the bizonal economy and conflicting demands for these products.
(b) All trade between the Bizonal Area and the sterling area shall be conducted in sterling in both directions. From January 1, 1948, payments in respect of such trade shall be made in the following manner :

(i) The Joint Foreign Exchange Agency shall open an account with the Bank of England to be known as "The Joint Foreign Exchange Agency No. 1 Account".
(ii) All payments to residents of the sterling area in respect of goods imported into the Bizonal Area , or services rendered on behalf of the Bizonal economy (other than goods or services provided by the Government of the United Kingdom from appropriated funds in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 (a ) of the present Agreement) shall be made from the No. 1 Account.

Transfers to No. 1 Account .

(iii ) Payment for all exports sold to residents of the sterling area, or services rendered to such residents, shall be paid into the No. 1 Account.
(iv) The Joint Foreign Exchange Agency shall, as and when it may be necessary, arrange that transfers be made from its

61 STAT.]

UNITED KINGDOM-GERMANY-DEC. 17, 1947

3611

other accounts to the No. 1 Account to an amount sufficient to ensure that there is always a credit balance in its favor in the No. 1 Account. Any amounts so transferred may be withdrawn from the No. 1 Account when they are no longer required in order to maintain a credit balance in the Account.

Statements of No. 1 (v) A statement showing the state of the No. 1 Account at Account.
the close of business on the last day of each of the months of

March, June, September and December shall be rendered on the first day of business of the following calendar month by the Bank of England to the Joint Foreign Exchange Agency.
(vi) If any such statement shows that, after deduction of the net amount of any transfers made in accordance with the provisions of clause ( iv) above, there is a credit balance in the No. 1 Account in excess of £1,500,000, the Bank of England for account of the Government of the United Kingdom shall, against reimbursement from the No. 1 Account in sterling, make a

Credit balance.

payment of an amount equivalent to the excess, in United States dollars, to the account of the Joint Foreign Exchange Agency at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
(vii ) If any such statement of account shows that, after deduction of the net amount of any transfers made in accordance with the provisions of clause ( iv) above, there is a debit balance in the No. 1 Account in excess of £1,500,000 , the Joint

Debit balance.

Foreign Exchange Agency shall sell United States dollars to an amount equivalent to the excess to the Bank of England, for account of the Government of the United Kingdom, and the sterling proceeds of such sale shall be credited to the No. 1 Account.

(viii) Provided that a credit balance is maintained in the No. 1 Account, transfers may be made from that Account to the other sterling accounts of the Joint Foreign Exchange Agency if necessary in order to maintain the minimum sterling balances required under the provisions of sub-paragraph (b)

Transfersfrom No.1 Account.

of paragraph 4 of the present Agreement.

Convertibility of sterling held by the Joint Foreign Exchange Agency.

4 ( a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 11 of the present Post, p. 3616.

Agreement, the Government of the United Kingdom recognize a con-

tinuing liability to convert into dollars in accordance with the pro-

visions of sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, any sterling held by

the Joint Foreign Exchange Agency at the date of signature of the

present Agreement and any sterling acquired by the Joint Foreign

Exchange Agency during the period of the present Agreement.

(b) The sum to be kept in the dollar accounts of the Joint Foreign

Sums to be kept in dollar and sterling

Exchange Agency shall not be less than $20,000,000 and the sum to accounts.

be kept in the sterling accounts (other than the No. 1 Account ) of

3612

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Transfers.

the Joint Foreign Exchange Agency shall not be less than the sterling equivalent of $ 20,000,000 unless the total of the sums held in these accounts, as shown in the books of the Agency, falls below the equivalent of $40,000,000 in which case the amounts held in the dollar and in the sterling accounts shall (within a maximum variation of the equivalent of $1,000,000 ) be kept equal. Transfers from the sterling accounts to the dollar accounts and transfers from the dollar accounts to the sterling accounts shall be made when the holdings of dollars or sterling as the case may be fall below the minima indicated above. Such transfers shall be in sums of $1,000,000 or the sterling equivalent thereof.

linCgoninvteorsdiololnarosf, esttce.r-

(c) Any conversion of sterling into dollars in accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraphs ( a ) and (b ) of this paragraph shall be effected by the purchase of dollars from the Bank of England by the Joint Foreign Exchange Agency. Any such purchases shall be made at the rate of £1 equals $4.03 . If, at any time, the Joint For-

eign Exchange Agency purchases sterling in exchange for any other currency, such purchases shall be effected through the Bank of

England .

(d) In recognition of the serious dollar difficulties of the United Kingdom, it is the intent and purpose of the Government of the United States that, in so far as practicable, the operations of the Joint Export-Import Agency shall be so conducted that not more than the sterling equivalent of $40,000,000 shall be required to be converted in accordance with the preceding sub-paragraphs of this paragraph, prior to January 1, 1949. Moreover, if for any reason at any time during the period of the present Agreement, the rate of drawing of dollars through the conversion of sterling should be such as to result in an undue drain on the dollar resources of the Govern-
ment of the United Kingdom, the matter may be raised with the Bipartite Board and thereafter, if necessary, between the two Governments for the purpose of seeking some method acceptable to the Government of the United States whereby the rate of drawing of dollars through the conversion of sterling can be decreased. Pending a settlement of the matter, the provisions of sub-paragraphs ( a) , (b) and (c) of this paragraph shall, unless otherwise agreed between the two Governments, continue to apply.

Agency for Foreign Trade.

Authority of U. S.

5. The Government of the United Kingdom recognize that so long as the Government of the United States is called upon to make the major contribution towards the cost of the essential imports of the Bizonal Area, that Government shall be entitled to a larger measure of authority with respect to the operations of the Joint ExportImport Agency and the Joint Foreign Exchange Agency.

p.621475S.tat . , Pt . 3, Paragraph 4 of the Bizonal Fusion Agreement is accordingly amended as follows :-

61 STAT. ]

UNITED KINGDOM-GERMANY- DEC. 17, 1947

3613

"4 (a) Responsibility for foreign trade shall rest initially with

Responsibility foreign trade.

for

the Joint Export-Import Agency (United States/United King-

dom ) . This responsibility shall be transferred to German ad-

ministrative agencies under the supervision of the Joint Export-

Import Agency to the maximum extent permitted by the restrictions existing in foreign countries at any given period.
Schedules for ex"(b) Except in so far as the use to which they shall be put has penditure of funds. been determined in advance by agreement between the two Governments, and subject to the authority of each Government over the expenditure of its own appropriated funds, and any legislative limitations which may be placed thereon, the appropriated funds available for carrying out the terms of this Agreement

shall be expended in accordance with schedules established by

the Joint Export-Import Agency. These schedules shall be

drawn up in accordance with the general policies of the two

Military Governors ( constituting the Bipartite Board ) and shall

be used as a basis for procurement in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 8 of this Agreement, subject to any amend-

Post, p. 3615.

ment effected by agreement between the two Governments.

Approval ofimports "(c) The Joint Export-Import Agency shall be responsible for and exports, etc.

the approval of all imports and exports and for procurement in

accordance with its responsibilities under the provisions of para-

graph 8 of this Agreement, subject to any amendment effected

by agreement between the two Governments. It shall be the

responsibility of the Joint Export-Import Agency to develop a maximum export program consistent with the accomplishment of

over-all objectives in Germany and in conformity with the policy

of the two Governments gradually to transfer responsibility to

German administrative agencies. The Bipartite Board shall fa-

cilitate the work of the Joint Export-Import Agency in develop-

ing such a program. " (d ) The Joint Export-Import Agency and the Joint Foreign Exchange Agency shall operate in accordance with the general

Operation of agencies according to policies of Bipartite Board.

policies of the Bipartite Board to conduct or to supervise the im-

port and export trade of the Bizonal Area . Each of these agen-

cies shall be governed by a board of directors, to which the respec-

tive Military Governors shall each appoint an equal number of members. The decisions of the board of directors shall be

determined by the majority vote of its members. The members appointed by each Military Governor shall vote as a group. Each

group shall have a voting strength in relation to the other group equal to the proportion which the appropriated funds made avail-

able by their respective Governments under the provisions of this Agreement, or any subsequent amending agreement, plus the funds contributed by each Government to the capital of the Joint Export-Import Agency, bear to the total funds made available by the two Governments for these purposes.
95347-50-PT. IV- 18

3614 Review of proposed
actions.
Delegation of pow. er, etc.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
"(e) Either Military Governor may, should he consider that any action which it is proposed that the Joint Export -Import Agency or the Joint Foreign Exchange Agency should take is likely to prejudice the interests or conflict with the policies of his Government, request that the matter be referred to the Bipartite Board for review. In that event the proposed action shall be suspended pending Bipartite Board review. Such suspension shall continue only until adequate opportunity has been afforded in the Bipartite Board to ensure that the issue has been reviewed in all its aspects, unless the Bipartite Board unanimously agree to disapprove or modify the proposed action.
"(f) Subject to the provisions of the preceding sub-paragraphs of this paragraph, the Bipartite Board shall delegate to the Joint Export- Import Agency and the Joint Foreign Exchange Agency full power and authority necessary for the conduct of the exportimport trade, including the authority to contract for imports and exports through such agencies as it may designate, to borrow and lend money, to pay and collect accounts, and to utilize and distribute foreign currency, and such other necessary authority as is essential to the rehabilitation and promotion of peaceful trade and commerce."99

Basis of Economic Planning.

p.621475S.tat . , Pt . 3, 6. Paragraph 5 of the Bizonal Fusion Agreement shall be amended as follows :-

"5. The United States and United Kingdom Military Governors in Germany shall, in accordance with the policy of the two Governments, use their best endeavors to develop at the earliest possible date, in that part of Germany which is under their jurisdiction, an economy which can be maintained without further financial assistance from either Government, and which will at the same time contribute to the peaceful rehabilitation of Europe."
Procurement .

p.621477S.tat . , Pt . 3, 7. Paragraph 8 of the Bizonal Fusion Agreement shall be amended as follows :-

Procurement from economical sources of supply.

"8. The determination of import requirements shall be the responsibility of the Joint Export-Import Agency. The procurement of these requirements shall be dealt with as follows :-
"(i ) Procurement of imports financed from funds appropriated by either Government shall be the responsibility of that Government except to the extent that such responsibility is delegated by the Government concerned to the Joint Export-Import Agency.
"(ii) Procurement of all other imports shall be the responsibility of the Joint Export-Import Agency with such assistance from the two Governments as may be required . Unless otherwise agreed, procurement shall be from the most economical sources

61 STAT. ]

UNITED KINGDOM GERMANY-DEC. 17, 1947

3615

of supply. Provided that the procurement of essential imports shall not be prejudiced thereby, the sources shall be selected, to the fullest extent practicable, so as to minimize the drain on the dollar resources of the Government of the United Kingdom (accordingly, where required imports are known to be available from dollar and sterling area sources of supply and conditions regarding price, quality and terms of delivery are equal, the imports shall normally be procured from the sterling area source) . "(iii ) With respect to any procurement where the financial responsibility rests with one Government and the agreed source of supply is within territory under the authority of the other Government, the latter, if so requested , shall accept responsibility for procuring those supplies as agent for the former."
Abolishment of 8. The Bizonal Supplies Committee, established under the provisions Committee. of paragraph 8 of the Bizonal Fusion Agreement , shall be abolished.
Consultation of rep9. Representatives of the two Governments shall consult together in resentatives. Washington in regard to the following matters :-
(a) The programing of the procurement of Category A goods against programs of import requirements submitted by the Joint Export-Import Agency.
(b) The methods to be employed by agencies of either Government, whether directly or through the Joint Export-Import Agency, in the purchase of such products as cereals, livestock products, oils, fats, pulses and fertilizers , in certain markets of primary importance to the United Kingdom, such as Canada, Argentina and Europe, in view of the fact that uncoordinated purchases in these markets might adversely affect United States or United Kingdom supply interests.
Definitions.
10 (a) For the purposes of the present Agreement, the expression "The sterling area." "the sterling area" shall be deemed to mean " the scheduled territories", which expression has the meaning assigned to it under the provisions
"The scheduled terof the Exchange Control Act, 1947, of the United Kingdom. "The ritories." scheduled territories " at present include :-
(i) Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
(ii) Australia, New Zealand , Union of South Africa, Eire, India, Pakistan, Southern Rhodesia and Ceylon.
(iii) Any British Colony and any territory under the protection of His Britannic Majesty.
(iv) Any territory in respect of which a mandate on behalf of the League of Nations was accepted by His Britannic Majesty and any territory placed under the trusteeship system of the United Nations, which territories are being administered by His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom or in any Dominion.
(v) Burma.

3616

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

(vi) Iraq and Transjordan. (vii ) Iceland and the Faroe Islands.
defNiontiitcieono. f change in If and when any alteration is made to the definition of the expression "the scheduled territories " for the purposes of the Exchange Control Act, 1947, ofthe United Kingdom , the Government of the United Kingdom shall forthwith notify that change to the Joint Foreign Exchange Agency and the expression "the sterling area" shall be deemed to have been correspondingly amended for the purposes of this Agreement.

chJaonignet AgFeorneciyg.n Ex

(b) For the purposes of the present Agreement, the Bipartite Finance Committee (United States-United Kingdom) , provided for in the Bizonal Fusion Agreement, shall be deemed to have been superseded by the Joint Foreign Exchange Agency.

tioSnusc.cessor organiza-

(c ) Any reference in the present Agreement to the Joint ExportImport Agency or the Joint Foreign Exchange Agency shall be construed to refer likewise to any successor organization or organizations.

Provisions for Entry into Force , Amendment and Renewal.

11 (a ) The present Agreement shall come into force on signature. The present Agreement and the Bizonal Fusion Agreement shall constitute a single agreement between the two Governments, which shall remain in force until agreement has been reached for the treatment of Germany as an economic unit or until December 31 , 1948 , whichever is the sooner. In either event, the Joint Export- Import Agency and the Joint Foreign Exchange Agency shall continue to function until such time as further agreement is reached concerning them.
(b) The two Governments shall consult together before June 30, 1948, at the request of either of them, for the purpose of reviewing the operation of the Agreement and of considering whether any amendment should be made in its terms. The two Governments shall also consult together before December 1, 1948 to consider the terms and conditions of a new Agreement for a further period.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, have signed the present Agreement.
DONE at Washington, in duplicate, this seventeenth day of December, 1947.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : ROBERT A LOVETT.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND :
WILLIAM STRANG

61 STAT. ]

UNITED KINGDOM- GERMANY- DEC. 17, 1947

3617

ANNEX TO THE AGREEMENT OF DECEMBER 17, 1947, BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND, AMENDING CERTAIN TERMS OF THE BIZONAL FUSION AGREEMENT SIGNED AT NEW YORK ON DECEMBER 2 , 1946.

Provision by the Government of the United Kingdom of Category A goods and services in the calendar year 1948.

The goods and services to be provided by the Government of the

United Kingdom during the calendar year 1948 in accordance with

the provisions of paragraph 1 (a) ( iv ) follows :-
Fish Pulses Seeds Oils, Vegetables and miscellaneous food Insecticides Fertilizers Freight Miscellaneous goods

of the

Agreement, are as
£ million 5. 55 .45 1.65 2.00 .50 1.10 5.00 1.25

1

17.50 (ap-

proximately

the equiva-

lent of

$70,000,000)

The Government of the United Kingdom may, in consultation with the Joint Export-Import Agency, make reasonable adjustments in the composition of this list.

Adjustment of list.

3618

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

December 8, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1691

Agreement and accompanying notes between the United States of America and China respecting the transfer of United States naval vessels and equipment to the Chinese Government. Signed at Nanking December 8, 1947; entered into force December 8, 1947.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA CONCERNING THE TRANSFER
OF NAVAL VESSELS AND EQUIPMENT PURSUANT TO
UNITED STATES PUBLIC LAW 512 79TH CONGRESS
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

61 STAT. ] CHINA-TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS-DEC. 8, 1947

3619

WHEREAS, the Act of July 16, 1946, United States Public Law 512, 79th Congress, 2nd Session, authorizes, at the request of the Government of the Republic of China, the transfer thereto of Naval vessels and craft not to exceed 271 in number, which are in excess of the Naval needs of the Government of the United States, including

60 Stat. 539. 50 U. S. C. app.
1871 , 1872.

floating drydocks of capacity sufficient to accommodate any vessel or craft disposed of under authority of the Act, material necessary for the operation and maintenance of such vessels and craft and for the training of the crews of such vessels and craft and the furnishing of other naval assistance, by sale, exchange, lease, gift or transfer for cash, credit or other property, with or without warranty or upon such other terms and conditions as the President may deem proper ; and,
WHEREAS, the Government of the Republic of China has requested the Government of the United States of America to transfer to it

certain specified Naval vessels, craft and floating drydocks and to furnish it certain technical advice and assistance in connection with

the organization and maintenance by it of a Naval establishment ; Now Then,
IT IS HEREBY MUTUALLY AGREED AS FOLLOWS :

ARTICLE 1. The Government of the United States of America will

cause to be transferred to the Government of the Republic of China those certain Naval vessels, craft and floating drydocks described on Schedule "A" annexed hereto and made a part hereof.
ARTICLE 2. Title to all vessels and floating drydocks transferred pursuant to the provisions of Article 1 hereof shall vest in the Govern-

Post, p. 3623. Title to vessels, etc.

ment of the Republic of China at the time of delivery thereof ; such delivery to be made "as is, where is", without reimbursement or transfer of funds, and at a time to be mutually agreed upon, but not later than the dates set forth in Schedule "A" annexed hereto and made a

Post, p. 3623.

part hereof, and to be evidenced by a delivery certificate in the form prescribed by the Government of the United States of America. From and after the delivery of said vessels, the Government of the Republic of China shall hold harmless and indemnify the Government of the

Indemnification of eutc. .S. against claims,
Post , p. 3625.

United States of America, its officers, agents, servants and employees,

against any and all claims, demands, losses, damages, expenses, and

costs, regardless of the nature thereof, of every kind and character,

whether arising out of contract or in tort, arising out of or connected

with the transfer of such property or the use and operation thereof by the Government of the Republic of China. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Government of the Republic of China

Bofors 40 mm guns, etc.
Post, p. 3625.

shall hold harmless and indemnify the Government of the United States of America, its officers , agents, servants, and employees against any and all claims, demands, expenses, damages and costs arising or

growing out of the transfer to the Government of the Republic of China of Bofors 40mm guns or guns of similar type made or produced under or pursuant to an agreement dated June 21, 1941, [ ¹ ] between the United States of America and Aktiebolaget Bofors.

1 [Not printed.]

3620

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Repair of vessels,

etc.

ARTICLE 3. ( a ) At the request of the Government of the Republic of

China, the Government of the United States of America will, as to

any of the vessels transferred "as is, where is" at locations other than

those under the control of the Government of the Republic of China, provide the necessary work, services, and materials to repair, recondi-

tion, outfit and equip said vessels within the capacity of the facilities available therefor at or near the location of such vessels, upon pay-

ment for all of the costs and expenses incurred in connection therewith .
The Government of the Republic of China will promptly reimburse the Government of the United States of America for the cost thereof, as is hereinafter provided .
(b) The Government of the United States of America , at the reques of the Government of the Republic of China, to the extent that such materials are available, will furnish such materials from time to time, as are deemed proper by the Government of the United States of America, for the operation and maintenance of any or all of the vessels , craft and floating drydocks transferred hereunder, on the basis of prompt reimbursement by the Government of the Republic of China to the Government of the United States of America for the cost thereof, as is hereinafter provided.

(c) In connection with ( i ) the transfer of vessels, craft and floating

drydocks ( ii ) the repairing, reconditioning, outfitting, equipping and

furnishing of operational and maintenance supplies therefor, and ( iii )

the organization and maintenance of a Naval establishment by the

Government of the Republic of China , the Government of the United

States of America, to the extent deemed proper by it and consistent

with security classifications, when requested by the Government of

the Republic of China, will, ( 1 ) furnish plans , blueprints and docu-

ments without reimbursement, ( 2 ) furnish technical information and

advice without reimbursement and (3) participate in and sign a

Funds required to
meet obligations of China .

conducted joint inventory of each vessel at the time of delivery without reimbursement.
ARTICLE 4. For the purpose of providing the funds required to meet the obligations of the Government of the Republic of China un-

der the provisions of Article 3 hereof, it is agreed that all funds now

on deposit with the Government of the United States of America

for the payment of the costs and expenses of operation of lend-lease

vessels under the Extension Agreement dated June 28, 1946, [ ¹ ] en-

tered into by and between the Government of the United States of

America and the Government of the Republic of China, and not re-

quired nor obligated for services and materials furnished by the Government of the United States of America to the Government of the

Republic of China under the terms of said Agreement, shall be retained by the Government of the United States of America and held for the credit of the Government of the Republic of China against duly certified invoices issued by the Government of the United States of America from time to time for work, services, materials, and supplies furnished

¹ [Not printed. ]

61 STAT. ] CHINA- TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS- DEC. 8, 1947

3621

in accordance with Article 3 hereof, and the Government of the Re-

public of China agrees to make such further deposits with the Govern-

ment of the United States of America to be held by said Government

for payment of such invoices, as may be requested by the Government of the United States of America from time to time. Failure on the
part of the Government of the Republic of China to make deposits requested by the Government of the United States of America from

Failure to make deposits .

time to time, shall relieve the Government of the United States of

America from the obligation to furnish any further work, services,

materials or supplies until the deposit or deposits requested are made. ARTICLE 5. Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Agree Removal of vessels from delivery lock

ment, and subject only to such extensions of time as may be granted by tion. the Government of the United States of America, acting by and

through the Secretary of the Navy, by reason of the necessity of repair,

reconditioning, outfitting, equipping, supplying and training Chinese

personnel in the operation thereof, the Government of the Republic of

China shall remove each vessel and floating drydock transferred or

furnished pursuant to this Agreement, from locations other than those

under the control of the Government of the Republic of China, within

120 days from the date of transfer thereof. In the event of failure to

remove a vessel or floating drydock from delivery location within the time so limited or within such extension thereof as may be granted by

the Government of the United States of America, the Government of

the Republic of China shall lose all right, title and interest in and to

such vessel or floating drydock and the Government of the United

States of America shall make such other disposition thereof as in its

sole discretion may be deemed advisable. ARTICLE 6. The Government of the Republic of China will not
relinquish physical possession of or transfer title to any of the vessels

Non-relinquishment by China.

or floating drydocks or equipment and supplies furnished under this

Agreement without the written consent of the Government of the

United States of America.

Naval information and

Naval equip-

Safeguarding of naval information,

ment furnished under this Agreement or otherwise, of any security etc.

classification whatsoever, will be safeguarded in accordance with the

requirements of the security classification imposed thereon by the

Government of the United States of America and no disclosure by

the Government of the Republic of China thereof to other govern-

ments or unauthorized persons will be made without the prior written consent of the Government of the United States of America.

ARTICLE 7. So long as this Agreement or any extension thereof shall remain in effect, the Government of the Republic of China shall

Personnel.

not engage or accept the services of any personnel of any government other than the Government of the United States of America for duties

of any nature connected with the use and operation of the vessels and other craft to be transferred pursuant to this Agreement, except by mutual agreement between the Government of the United States of

America and the Government of the Republic of China. ARTICLE 8. This Agreement shall terminate with the expiration of
United States Public Law 512, 79th Congress, 2nd Session. However, if at any time the Government of the United States of America shall

Termination of agreement.
60 Stat. 539. 50 U. S. C. app.
$ 1871, 1872.

3622
Post, p. 3895. Effective date.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
determine that the transfer of further vessels and craft or the furnishing of materials and assistance no longer continues to be in the public interest, such transfers shall be discontinued .
ARTICLE 9. Upon the coming into effect of this Agreement, that part of the "Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of China under Section 3 ( c) of the Lend-Lease Act", dated June 28, 1946 , providing for Naval assistance to China, shall be superseded by the applicable provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 10. This Agreement shall come into effect on the date of its signature.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, duly authorized thereto, have signed this Agreement in the English and Chinese languages, both in duplicate, at Nanking, China, this 8th day of December, 1947 , corresponding to the 8th day of the 12th month of the 36th year of the Republic of China.
For the Government of the United States of America

Leighton Stork ( Kabassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America at Nanking , China
For the Government of the Republic of China
Wang Shih- cich 11 Minister of Foreign Affairs [J. Leighton Stuart] * [Wang Shih -chieh ]

61 STAT. ] CHINA-TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS-DEC. 8, 1947

3623

SCHEDULE "A"

PROPOSED LIST OF VESSELS TO BE TRANSFERRED TO CHINA

1. List of vessels transferred to China under Credit Lend-Lease to

be recaptured under Lend-Lease Act and recommended for transfer to China under Public Law 512, 79th Congress , 2nd Session, and pro-

visions of Executive Order No. 9843 of April 25, 1947 :

PR 4 DE 6 DE 47 PCE 867 PCE 869 AM 257 AM 258 AM 259 AM 260 LST 537 LST 557 LST 755 LST 1030 LST 993 LST 716 LST 717 LST 1017 LST 1050 LST 1075 LSM 155 LSM 157 LSM 285 LSM 457 LSM 431

LSM 433 LSM 442 LSM 456 LCI (L) 233 LCI ( L) 631 LCI ( L) 417 LCI ( L ) 418 LCI (L) 630 LCI (L) 632 LCI (L ) 514 LCI (L ) 517 AG 124 ( MAUMEE) LCT 512 LOT 515 LCT 849 LCT 892 LCT 1143 LCT 1145 LCT 1171 LCT 1213 AOG 42 AFDL 34 25 LCM 25 LCVP

55 Stat. 31.
22 U. S. C. §§ 411-
419. 60 Stat. 539. 50 U. S. C. app.
§§ 1871 , 1872. 3 CFR, 1947 Supp.,
p. 139.

2. List of vessels now earmarked and recommended for transfer to

China under Public Law 512, 79th Congress, 2nd Session, and pro-

visions of Executive Order No. 9843 of April 25, 1947 :

DE 102 Green Cove Springs DE 103 Green Cove Springs DE 104 Green Cove Springs DE 112 Green Cove Springs AM 266 Philippines AM 273 Philippines AM 276 Philippines AM 246 Philippines AM 274 Philippines AM 286 Philippines AM 287 Philippines AM 216 Philippines YMS 339 Philippines YMS 346 Philippines YMS 367 Philippines YMS 2017 Philippines

PC 490 PC 492 PC 593 PC 595 PC 1247 PC 1549 PGM 20 PGM 26 PGM 12 PGM 13 PGM 14 PGM 15 SC 518 SC 637 SC 648 SC 698

Philippines Philippines Philippines Philippines Philippines Philippines Philippines Philippines Philippines Philippines Philippines Philippines Philippines Philippines Philippines Philippines

3624

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SC 703 SC 704 SC 708 SC 722 SC 723 SC 735

SCHEDULE "A"--Continued

Philippines Philippines Philippines

AGS 9 (Armistead Rust ) Philippines
AOG 22 (Wautauga)

Philippines

Philippines

Philippines Philippines

AFDL ( c ) 36 Guam ARL 41 New Orleans

3. Limiting date for transfer : ( a ) vessels at Green Cove Springs, 31 December 1948 ; (b) other vessels, 1 July 1948.
4. Schedule of transfer of above vessels to be made by mutual agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of China. All vessels to be transferred prior to limiting dates stated in 3 above.

[]1 Sheightenswort

Wany thih - chish
1 [J. Leighton Stuart]
3 [Wang Shih-chieh]

61 STAT. ] CHINA-TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS-DEC. 8, 1947

3625

The American Ambassador to the Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 1302 EXCELLENCY :

AMERICAN EMBASSY Nanking, December 8, 1947

I have the honor to refer to the "Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the

Republic of China concerning the Transfer of Naval Vessels and Equipment pursuant to United States Public Law 512-79th Congress of the United States of America" signed today and, in particular, to that sentence in Article 2 of the Agreement which reads "From and

60 Stat . 539. 50 U. S. C. app:
$ 1871, 1872. Ante, p . 3619.

after the delivery of said vessels, the Government of the Republic of

China shall hold harmless and indemnify the Government of the

United States of America, its officers, agents , servants and employees,

against any and all claims, demands, losses, damages, expenses, and

costs, regardless of the nature thereof, of every kind and character,

whether arising out of contract or in tort, arising out of or connected

with the transfer of such property or the use and operation thereof by

the Government of the Republic of China." It is understood that the

claims, demands, losses, damages, expenses, and costs, regardless of

the nature thereof, of every kind and character , whether arising out of contract or in tort for which the Chinese Government assumes full

responsibility, are limited to those which arise from and after the

delivery of the vessels and out of or connected with the transfer of the property or the use and operation of it by the Republic of China.
With reference to the concluding sentence of Article 2 of the Agreement, I am authorized to inform Your Excellency that the possible claim of the Aktiebolaget Bofors which may arise out of the transfer to the Government of the Republic of China of Bofors guns is the only claim of this nature of which the United States Navy Department is aware.

Ante, p. 3619.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
J. LEIGHTON STUART His Excellency
Dr. WANG SHIH-CHIEH,

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Nanking.

3626

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. The Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador


TheMinistry ofForeign Affairs

Republic ofChina

EXCELLENCY :

December 8, 1947

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note of today's date, which reads as follows :

"I have the honor to refer to the ' Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of

60 Stat. 539. 50 U. 8. C. app. $ 1871, 1872.
Ante, p. 3619.

the Republic of China Concerning the Transfer of Naval Vessels and Equipment Pursuant to United States Public Law 512-79th Congress of the United States of America' signed today and, in particular, to that sentence in Article 2 of the Agreement which

reads ' From and after the delivery of said vessels, the Government of the Republic of China shall hold harmless and indemnify the Government of the United States of America, its officers, agents,

servants and employees, against any and all claims, demands, losses, damages, expenses, and costs, regardless of the nature thereof, of every kind and character, whether arising out of contract or in tort,

arising out of or connected with the transfer of such property or the use and operation thereof by the Government of the Republic of China.' It is understood that the claims, demands , losses, damages, expenses, and costs, regardless of the nature thereof, of every kind

and character, whether arising out of contract or in tort for which

Ante, p. 3619.

the Chinese Government assumes full responsibility, are limited to those which arise from and after the delivery of the vessels and out of or connected with the transfer of the property or the use and operation of it by the Republic of China.
"With reference to the concluding sentence of Article 2 of the

Agreement, I am authorized to inform Your Excellency that the

possible claim of the Aktiebolaget Bofors which may arise out of

the transfer to the Government of the Republic of China of Bofors

guns is the only claim of this nature of which the United States Navy Department is aware.

Confirmation of understanding.

"Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. " I take pleasure in confirming that the understanding expressed in the above quoted note is agreeable to the Chinese Government.

61 STAT. ] CHINA-TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS-DEC. 8, 1947
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.

3627

Wang Shih - chinke
His Excellency, Dr. J. LEIGHTON STUART, American Ambassador, Nanking.
' [Wang Shih-chieh]









 

 

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

        --       3.  ----   X  1
                     
SheiSgthu tao r [ n t3    

1 [J. Leighton Stuart] 2 [Wang Shih-chieh ]

{

3628

61 STAT. ] CHINA- TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS- DEC. 8, 1947

  

         

      x     

DE 102

DE 103

DE 104

DE 112

AM 2662

AM 273

AM 276

AM 246

AM 274



AM 286

AM 287

AM 216

YMS 339

YES 346

YMS 367

YMS 2017



PC 490



PC 492



PC 593



PC 595



PC 1247



PC 1549



PGM 20



PGM 26



PGM 12

PGM 13



PGM 14

PGM 15

SC 518



SC 637



SC 648



SC 698



SC 703



SC 704



SC 708



SC 722

SC_723

SC 735

AGS 9 ( Armistead Rust ) E

AOG22 ( Wautauga )  

AFDL ( c ) 36 ARL 41





  

  

 
,  


  



3629

95347°-50-PT. IV- 19

3630

   X    

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

  

  

PR 4 DE 6 DE 47 PCE 867 PCE 8692 AM 257 AM 258 AM 259 AM 260 LST 537 LST 557 LST 755 LST 1030 LST 993 LST 716 LST 717 LST 1017 LST 1050 LST 1075 LSM 155 LSM 157 LSM 285 LSM 457 LSM 431 LSM 433 LSM 442 ZSM 456
LCI ( L ) 233 [CI ( L ) 631 LcI ( 1 ) 417 LCI ( L ) 418 ICI ( L ) 630 LCI ( L ) 632 ICI ( L ) 514 LCI ( L ) 517 AG 124 ( MAUMES) LOT 512 LCT 515 LCT 849 LCT 892 ICT 1143 LOT 1145 LCT 1171 ZCT 1213 AOG 42 APDL 34 25 LCM 25 LCVP



  

   







 ()



 



 

        

          

61 STAT. ] CHINA-TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS-DEC. 8, 1947

3631

 

       

         

       

   

    , 

  

   , ,     

 

 



 
  

 , 





2 [J. Leighton Stuart] 2 [Wang Shih-chieh ]

3632

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

   ,

   

       

 ( )   
  

  

          





 

 

  

 
     +















 +



 



 ,  

     

   

 

   

3633

61 STAT. ] CHINA-TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS-DEC. 8, 1947

                          ,              

     ,          

        

     ,       

      

  

3634

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

   

 

   

 

  

  

 



 

     



    

 

 

  

  

 

 

  

           
    
  

    



     








          

   ,

61 STAT.] CHINA-TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS-DEC. 8, 1947

3635

   

 

+ 

   

 



 

 ,  

  

  ,

 

 

  ,
  


               





 





 





 

   ,



 



 

    

    



    





  





  

 

   

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

+      
                                                                      ,
                              

3636

61 STAT. ] CHINA TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS----DEC. 8, 1947

3637

         ,    
 

 

  

 



 

  ,

 





 

  

 

  

       ,  

    

  ,    ,

 

 

 

( )  



     


 ,  


 

 ,

 ( )







 

  



 

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

                      ,     .
u        ,

               

           



                      

       ,   

3638

3639

                         

61 STAT. ] CHINA-TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS-DEC. 8, 1947

      

  

                 .
                                       ,       



INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

             

                

             

   ,      

    

      



               ,   ,  
      

                 ,   

3640

61 STAT. ] CHINA-TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS-DEC. 8, 1947

3641

   
 

    

     ,

      

 

   

  ()
 

  

,   

 

 

 













 ,

 





 



 

 

  



INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

     X      x   

       

             

         

         

    

           

     

 

          
  ,

        

3642

61 STAT. ] CHINA- TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS-DEC. 8, 1947 

3643

  

 

T









INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

    

   :        

        











 



+

        :

    ,





     



.             



                  













  
*

            ,     ,    

       ,     

    

















  ,                         

      ,         ,      

3644

3645

 





  

61 STAT.] CHINA- TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS- DEC. 8, 1947

                ,



      





 ,                A 
A           







 

   ·

        



95347°-50-PT.IV- -20

   



  

  

3646

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
  





   

C
 7


3647

61 STAT. ] CHINA-TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS-DEC. 8, 1947

  

  



   

 ,   

      



        ,

  

      

:  

  

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

 "     

     





 

       "     



  



  

  

        

   , 



3648

3649

61 STAT.] CHINA-TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS-DEC. 8, 1947 

                       "     ,     ,        : ,       
                    
    "       

  

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

  :          :

    :       

  

   

 

 

          " 

   , 



3650

61 STAT. ] HAITI - HEALTH AND SANITATION- SEPT. 25, 27, 30, 1947

3651

Agreement between the United States of America and Haiti respecting a September 25, 27, 30, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1693]
cooperative health and sanitation program in Haiti, extending the agreement of April 7, 1942, as amended, until June 30, 1948. Signed
September 30, 1947; effected by exchange of notes signed at Port-au-
Prince September 25 and 27, 1947; entered into force September 27, 1947.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs
THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

AMERICAN EMBASSY,

EXCELLENCY :

Port-au-Prince, September 25, 1947.

I have the honor to refer to the letters exchanged between the

President of the Republic of Haiti and the Acting Secretary of State of the United States of America, dated April 7, 1942,

58 Stat. 1439.

relating to the establishment of a cooperative health and sanitation program in Haiti as modified by the notes exchanged between the

American Ambassador to the Republic of Haiti and the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of Haiti on June 29 and July 12 , 1944, concerning the same program.

59 Stat. 1298.

In accordance with the exchange of such letters and correspond-

ence, an agreement was entered into between the Republic of Haiti

and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, pursuant to which the

cooperative health and sanitation program was inaugurated in Haiti

and a small staff of experts and technicians was sent to Haiti to

cooperate with officials of the Haitian Government in realizing the

objectives of such program . I have now been informed by the Department of State in Washing-
ton that additional funds amounting to $25,000 have been made

Availability of additional U. 8. funds.

available by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs for the continua-

tion of the cooperative health and sanitation program in Haiti up to and including June 30 , 1948. It is understood that the additional $25,000 to be contributed by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs

Contribution by Haiti.

will be made available on condition that the Republic of Haiti con-

tribute $ 80,000 for the same program. The contribution by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs will be in addition to payments

made by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs directly to or on account of the experts and technicians sent to Haiti by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs in connection with carrying out the cooperative health and sanitation program .

If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed arrangement , as outlined above, is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate

3652

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement

thereto as soon as may be possible in order that final arrangements

for signing the Extension Agreement may be made by officials of the

Republic of Haiti and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the

assurance of my highest consideration .

ROBERT H. MCBRIDE ROBERT H. MCBRIDE

His Excellency EDMÉ MANIGAT,

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

Secretary of State for

Foreign Affairs, Port-au-Prince.

Ante, p. 3651 .

The Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

SECRÉTAIRERIE D'ETAT des
RELATIONS EXTÉRIEURES

No. SG/I-3 : 1242

RÉPUBLIQUE D'HAÏTI Port-au-Prince, le 27 Septembre 1947.

MONSIEUR LE CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES,

J'ai le plaisir d'accuser réception de la Note en date du 25 Septembre courant par laquelle vous m'informez que l'Institut des Affaires Interaméricaines a décidé d'apporter une contribution complémentaire de $ 25.000 au programme de sanitation du Gouvernement Haitien, à la condition que ce dernier accepte à y participer de son côté pour une valeur de $ 80.000.

En réponse, je suis heureux de vous faire savoir que le Gouvernement Haitien consent à renouveler l'accord qui devait expirer le 30 Septembre en cours, sur la base proposée par l'Institut .
Les dispositions nécessaires peuvent donc être prises pour la signature de cet accord supplémentaire par les officiels de l'Institut et les représentants du Gouvernement Haitien .

Agréez, Monsieur le Chargé d'Affaires, l'assurance de ma considération la plus distinguée.
EDMÉ TH. MANIGAT Monsieur ROBERT H. MCBRIDE

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim des Etats-Unis d'Amérique. Port-au-Prince.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS
No. SG/I-3 : 1242 MR. CHARGÉ d'AFFAIRES ,

Translation
REPUBLIC OF HAITI Port-au-Prince, September 27 , 1947.

I have the pleasure of acknowledging the receipt of the note of September 25 of this year in which you inform me that the Institute

61 STAT. ] HAITI-HEALTH AND SANITATION- SEPT. 25, 27 , 30, 1947

3653

of Inter-American Affairs has decided to make a complementary con-

tribution of $25,000 to the sanitation program of the Haitian Government, on condition that the latter agrees to participate on its part to the amount of $80,000 .

In reply, I am happy to inform you that the Haitian Government agrees to renew the agreement which was to expire on September 30 of the present year, on the basis proposed by the Institute.
The necessary steps may therefore be taken for the signing of this supplementary agreement by the officials of the Institute and the representatives of the Haitian Government .

Accept, Mr. Chargé d'Affaires, the assurance of my most dis-

tinguished consideration .

EDMÉ TH. MANIGAT

Mr. ROBERT H. MCBRIDE Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America. Port-au-Prince.

EXTENSION AGREEMENT

This Extension Agreement between the Republic of Haiti (hereinafter called the "Republic ") , represented by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the Republic , and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs , a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America (hereinafter called the "Institute ") , represented by Edwin L. Dudley, Chief of Field Party, Health and Sanitation Division of the Institute (hereinafter alled the "Chief of Field Party") , is entered into for the purpose of extending and modifying the cooperative health and sanitation program which was jointly undertaken by the Republic and the Institute pursuant to the agreement entered into between the Republic and the United States , as provided in the notes exchanged between the President of the Republic and the Under Secretary of State of the United States on April 7, 1942 , as supplemented and modified by the notes exchanged between the United States Ambassador to Haiti and the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of Haiti on June 29 and July 12, 1944 , respectively, and as further modified and supplemented by the agreement concerning such program contained in the exchange of correspondence between the Executive Vice President of the Institute and the President of the Republic on July 11 and July 12 , 1944 , (all of such notes and correspondence being hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Basic Agreement").

Basic agreement.
58 Stat. 1439. 59 Stat. 1298.

CLAUSE I
The parties hereto mutually intend, agree and declare that the term Extension of Basic Agreement.
of the Basic Agreement be and hereby is extended for an additional period of nine months beginning the first day of October 1947 and terminating the thirtieth day of June 1948.

3654

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

CLAUSE II

Field party of tech-

nicians.

The Institute shall continue to maintain in the Republic of Haiti

during the term of this Extension Agreement a field party of tech-

nicians and other specialists which shall continue to be under the

direction of the Chief of Field Party who shall be acceptable to the

Republic and who shall be the representative of the Institute in Haiti

in connection with the program to be carried out in accordance with

this Extension Agreement . The Institute field party will continue

to operate as the American Sanitary Mission and function in agree-

ment and close cooperation with the Republic as the intermediary

between the Republic and the Institute for the execution of the

cooperative program of health and sanitation . An appropriate

official of the Republic designated by the President of the Republic

and hereinafter referred to as the " Representative of the Government

of Haiti " shall continue to represent the Republic in the execution of

the cooperative program of health and sanitation . The Republic

recognizes the Institute as a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America and that the American Sanitary Mission is a division or office of the Institute .

CLAUSE III

Financing of pro-

gram .

The parties hereto acknowledge that the obligation of the Republic

under the Basic Agreement for the cooperative health and sanitation

program is $ 150,000 U. S. and that the obligation of the Institute

under the Basic Agreement for the same program is $ 800,000 U. S.

In addition to the mentioned funds required by the Basic Agreement to be contributed by the Republic and the Institute, the cooperative

health and sanitation program shall be further financed during the

period established by this Extension Agreement as follows:

Deposit by Insti-

tute.

(a) The Institute agrees to deposit during 1947 , in the Banque

Nationale de la Republique d'Haiti to the account of the American

Sanitary Mission, The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, the sum of

$25,000 U. S.

Deposit by Haiti,

etc.

(b) The Republic agrees to deposit in the Banque Nationale de la

Republique to the account of the American Sanitary Mission , The

Institute of Inter-American Affairs, the sum of not less than $ 80,000

on the following basis:

During

1947

Not later than March 31 , 1948

$40,000 $40,000

In addition to the funds described above, it is understood that the

Republic , when it is deemed desirable, may make available to the

American Sanitary Mission real and personal property, personal

Unexpended funds.

services and funds for use in carrying out the cooperative health and sanitation program .
(c) All of the unexpended portion of the funds required to be made

available by the Basic Agreement by the parties thereto for the

cooperative health and sanitation program shall continue to remain

available for such program during the period established by this

Extension Agreement. The Funds deposited by the Republic for any

61 STAT. ] HAITI-HEALTH AND SANITATION-SEPT. 25, 27 , 30, 1947

3655

particular period or the funds deposited by the Institute for any particular period to the credit of the American Sanitary Mission , the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, as provided in this Extension Agreement, are not to be withdrawn until the corresponding funds, if any, required to be deposited hereby, for that particular period are deposited by both parties. The Representative of the Government of Haiti and the Chief of Field Party shall determine by mutual agreement the disposition of any unobligated funds remaining to the credit of the American Sanitary Mission, The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs, on June 30 , 1948.
CLAUSE IV Amounts withheld
The Institute may withhold from the deposit called for by Clause for purchase of materials in U. S.
III (a) hereof the estimated amount deemed necessary by the Representative of the Government of Haiti and the Chief of Field Party to pay for the purchase in the United States of materials, supplies and equipment and other disbursements relating to the execution of the cooperative health and sanitation program. Any funds so withheld by the Institute shall be considered as if deposited under the terms of Clause III (a) hereof but if not expended or obligated for such purposes, they shall be deposited to the account of the American Sanitary Mission in the bank referred to in Clause III (a) hereof at any time upon mutual agreement of the Representative of the Government of Haiti and the Chief of Field Party.
CLAUSE V Salaries of members
The salaries, living allowances, travel expenses and any other of field party, etc. amounts directly payable to , or on account of, the members of the field party of the Institute, Health and Sanitation Division, in Haiti, shall be paid exclusively from funds of the Institute other than those required by the Basic Agreement and this Extension Agreement to be deposited to the account of the American Sanitary Mission, The Institute of Inter-American Affairs.
CLAUSE VI Rights of Institute,
For the purpose of this Extension Agreement, the Republic grants etc. unto the Institute all of those rights and privileges which are enjoyed by the several official divisions of the Republic . These rights and privileges shall include, for example, postal, telegraph and telephone services, which shall be free whenever possible, and the right to special rates granted to the Departments of the Republic by the domestic companies of maritime, air transportation, telephone and telegraph and similar services . The Institute shall be exempt from payment of
custom duties and other imposts on materials imported into Haiti for its official use in carrying out the cooperative health and sanitation program. The employees of the Institute who are citizens of the
United States engaged in carrying out the aforesaid cooperative program of health and sanitation shall be exempt form all taxes , sales or Social Security taxes with respect to income on which they are obligated to pay income or Social Security taxes to the Government of

3656

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

the United States of America. Such employees and the immediate members of their families with them in Haiti shall also be exempt

from the payment of custom and import duties on their personal effects, equipment and articles imported into Haiti for their personal use.

Property acquired with funds deposited.

CLAUSE VII All real and personal property acquired with funds required to be

deposited to the account of the American Sanitary Mission , The

Institute of Inter-American Affairs, pursuant to the Basic Agreement

and this Extension Agreement shall become the property of the

Republic whenever agreed upon by the Representative of the Govern-

ment of Haiti and the Chief of Field Party during the term of this

Extension Agreement, but no later than the termination thereof.

Delegation ofrights, etc.

CLAUSE VIII Any right, power or duty conferred by the Basic Agreement and this

Extension Agreement upon either the Representative of the Govern-

ment of Haiti or the Chief of Field Party may be delegated by the

recipient thereof to representatives, provided such representatives

are considered satisfactory by the other party hereto.

Legislation.

CLAUSE IX The Republic will take the necessary steps to obtain legislation,

decrees, orders or resolutions necessary to carry out the terms of this Extension Agreement.

Force and effect of Basic Agreement.

CLAUSE X This Extension Agreement shall supplement the provision of the

Basic Agreement, the terms and provisions of which, in so far as they

are not contrary to or inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Extension Agreement shall continue in full force and effect during the term covered by this Extension Agreement.

Effective date.

CLAUSE XI
This Extension Agreement shall become effective as soon as diplomatic notes confirming and accepting this Extension Agreement have been exchanged by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the Republic and the Ambassador of the United States of America to Haiti or upon the date of execution hereof in the event that diplomatic notes approving the extension of the cooperative health and sanitation program , as herein provided , have been exchanged prior to the date of execution of this Extension Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Extension Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives, in duplicate, in the English and French languages , at Port-au-Prince, Haiti, this 30th day of September, 1947.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF HAITI
EDMÉ TH. MANIGAT

FOR THE INSTITUTE OF INTERAMERICAN AFFAIRS EDWIN L. DUDLEY

61 STAT. ] HAITI-HEALTH AND SANITATION- SEPT. 25, 27, 30, 1947
ACCORD DE PROROGATION ENTRE LA REPUBLIQUE D'HAITI ET L'INSTITUT DES AFFAIRES INTERAMERICAINES, RELATIF AU PROGRAMME SANITAIRE DU GOUVERNEMENT HAITIEN.
Le présent accord de prorogation entre la République d'Haiti (ci-après dénommée l'Etat) représentée par le Secrétaire d'Etat des Relations Extérieures, Son Excellence Monsieur Edmé Th . MANIGAT, et l'Institut des Affaires Interaméricaines , agence légale du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, ci-après dénommé " l'Institut", représenté par M. Edwin L. DUDLEY, Chef de Mission, Division de la Santé et de l'Hygiène de l'Institut (ci-après dénommé "Chef de la Mission" ) , est conclu en vue d'étendre et de modifier le programme coopératif de santé et d'assainissement entrepris conjointement par l'Etat et l'Institut suivant le précédent accord intervenu entre la République d'Haiti et le Gouvernement des EtatsUnis d'Amérique par notes échangées entre le Président de la République d'Haiti et le Sous-Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-Unis d'Amérique le 7 Avril 1942 , accord complété et modifié par de nouvelles notes échangées entre l'Ambassadeur des Etats-Unis en Haiti et le Secrétaire d'Etat des Relations Extérieures d'Haiti les 29 Juin et 12 Juillet 1944 respectivement , complété et modifié également par l'accord relatif au dit programme contenu dans l'échange de correspondance effectué entre le Vice-Président de l'Institut et le Président de la République les 11 et 12 Juillet 1944 (toutes ces notes et correspondance étant ci-après désignées collectivement par les termes "Accord Principal " ) .
Les parties s'entendent, conviennent et déclarent que le délai d'expiration de l'Accord Principal sera et par la présente est prorogé pour une nouvelle période de neuf mois à partir du premier Octobre 1947 et jusqu'au 30 Juin 1948.
CLAUSE II
L'Institut s'engage à maintenir dans la République d'Haiti pendant la période de prorogation de l'Accord Principal le corps de techniciens et autres spécialistes qui continueront à travailler sous la direction du Chef de Mission agréé par le Gouvernement Haitien et représentant l'Institut en Haiti en tout ce qui a trait à l'exécution du programme faisant l'objet de cet accord de prorogation.
La section de l'Institut en Haiti continuera à travailler sous la dénomination de Mission Sanitaire Américaine et fonctionnera en accord et en collaboration étroite avec l'Etat comme intermédiaire entre l'Etat et l'Institut pour l'exécution du programme coopératif de santé et d'assainissement. Un officiel qualifié de l'Etat , désigné par le Président de la République et ci-après mentionné comme le "Représentant du Gouvernement d'Haiti " continuera à représenter l'Etat dans l'exécution du programme coopératif de santé et d'assainissement. L'Etat reconnaît l'Institut comme une Organisation légale du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et la Mission Sanitaire Américaine comme une division ou un Bureau de l'Institut.

3657

3658

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

CLAUSE III

Les parties reconnaissent que l'obligation financière de l'Etat d'après l'Accord Principal sur le programme coopératif de santé et d'assainissement est de $ 150.000 .- (Monnaie légale des Etats-Unis) et que celle de l'Institut d'après l'Accord Principal est de $ 800.000 .-En plus des fonds mentionnés requis par l'Accord Principal pour les contributions de l'Etat et de l'Institut, le programme coopératif de santé et d'assainissement sera en outre financé comme suit pendant la période fixée par la présente prorogation:

a) L'institut consent à faire dépôt en 1947, à la Banque Nationale de la République d'Haiti au crédit de la Mission Sanitaire Américaine, Institut des Affaires Interaméricaines, de la somme de $ 25.000.(monnaie légale des Etats-Unis . )
b) L'Etat consent à déposer à la Banque Nationale de la République d'Haiti, au compte Mission Sanitaire Américaine, Institut des Affaires Interaméricaines , la somme d'au moins $ 80.000.- sur la base suivante:

pendant le dernier trimestre 1947 .... au plus tard le 30 Mars 1948 ...

$ 40.000.40.000.-

En plus des fonds ci-dessus énumérés, il est entendu que l'Etat, lorsque cela est jugé utile, pourra mettre à la disposition de la Mission Sanitaire Américaine des biens meubles ou immeubles , les services d'un personnel et des fonds pour être employés dans l'exécution du programme coopératif de santé et d'assainissement.
c) Toute portion de fonds non utilisée par les parties en cause et dont la disposition était prévue par l'Accord Principal sur le programme coopératif de santé, demeurera disponible pour l'exécution du dit programme pendant la période fixée par cet Accord de Prorogation. La Mission ne pourra opérer aucun tirage de fonds si préalablement l'Etat et l'Institut n'aient conjointement déposé les fonds respectivement prévus pour la période déterminée par le présent Accord de Prorogation. Le Représentant du Gouvernement Haitien et le Chef de la Mission se mettront d'accord pour décider de la disposition de tous fonds non engagés et restant au crédit de la Mission Sanitaire Américaine, l'Institut des Affaires Interaméricaines, le 30 Juin 1948.
CLAUSE IV

L'Institut peut retenir du dépôt requis par la clause III ( a ) le montant dûment estimé par le Représentant du Gouvernement Haitien et le Chef d'Administration , nécessaire au paiement des achats aux EtatsUnis des matériaux, fournitures, équipement et autres débours nécessités par l'exécution du programme coopératif de santé et d'assainissement . Tous fonds ainsi retenus par l'Institut seront considérés comme déposés aux termes de la clause III (a) mais s'ils ne sont pas dépensés ni requis pour les dites fins , ils seront déposés au compte de la Mission Sanitaire Américaine à la Banque mentionnée par la clause III (a) à n'importe quel moment sur consentement mutuel du Représentant du Gouvernement Haitien et du Chef de la Mission.

61 STAT. ] HAITI-HEALTH AND SANITATION- SEPT. 25, 27 , 30, 1947
CLAUSE V
Les salaires, allocations , frais de voyage et d'entretien et toutes autres valeurs payables directement aux membres de la branche de l'Institut , Division de la Santé et de l'Hygiène , en Haiti , ou pour leur compte, devront être payés exclusivement des fonds de l'Institut autres que ceux requis par l'Accord Principal et cet Accord de Prorogation qui doivent être déposés au crédit de la Mission Sanitaire Américaine, Institut des Affaires Interaméricaines.
CLAUSE VI
En vue d'atteindre les fins du présent Accord de prorogation , l'Etat accorde à l'Institut tous droits et privilèges dont jouissent les différents du Gouvernement Haitien. Ces droits et privilèges comprendront entre autres les services des postes, télégraphes et téléphones , qui seront autant que possible libres de tous frais et le droit de tarif spécial accordé aux Services du Gouvernement par les compagnies de transport aérien et maritime établies dans le pays , de téléphone et télégraphe et autres services similaires. L'Institut sera exonéré du paiement des droits de douane et des autres taxes sur le matériel importé en Haiti destiné à être officiellement employé dans l'exécution du programme coopératif de santé et d'assainissement . Tous les employés de l'Institut des Affaires Interaméricaines qui sont citoyens des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, engagés dans la poursuite des objectifs du programme coopératif d'Hygiène et d'assainissement seront exonérés de tous impôts sur le revenu ou autres taxes d'assurance sociale eu égard aux revenus sur lesquels ils sont contraints de payer des impôts sur le revenu ou des taxes d'assurance sociale au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique. Ces employés et les membres immédiats de leurs familles résidant avec eux en Haiti seront aussi exonérés du paiement des droits de douane et autres droits à l'import sur leurs effets personnels , équipement et fournitures importés pour leur propre usage.
CLAUSE VII
Tout bien meuble ou immeuble acquis avec les fonds déposés au compte de la Mission Sanitaire Américaine, Institut des Affaires Interaméricaines, conformément à l'Accord Principal et au présent Accord de prorogation , deviendra la propriété de l'Etat à n'importe quel moment où il en sera ainsi convenu entre le Représentant du Gouvernement d'Haiti et le Chef de la Mission pendant la période d'exécution du présent Accord de Prorogation, ou au plus tard à la fin de cette prorogation.
CLAUSE VIII
Tout droit, pouvoir ou devoir conféré par l'Accord Principal et cet Accord de Prorogation soit au Représentant du Gouvernement Haitien soit au Chef de la Mission peut être délégué par la partie intéressée à des agents agréés par l'autre partie.
CLAUSE IX L'Etat prendra les lois , décrets, ordres ou résolutions nécessaires à l'exécution des clauses du présent Accord de Prorogation.

3659

3660

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

CLAUSE X
Cet Accord de Prorogation suppléera aux clauses de l'Accord Principal, dont les termes et conditions , pour autant qu'ils ne sont contraires aux termes et dispositions de cet Accord de Prorogation ou annulés par eux, continueront d'avoir force et effet pour la période fixée par le présent Accord de Prorogation .
CLAUSE XI
Cet Accord de Prorogation entrera en vigueur aussitôt que les notes diplomatiques le confirmant et l'acceptant auront été échangées entre le Secrétaire d'Etat des Relations Extérieures de la République d'Haiti et l'Ambassadeur des Etats-Unis d'Amérique en Haiti, ou bien à la date d'entrée en vigueur dans l'éventualité que les notes diplomatiques approuvant la prorogation du programme de santé et d'assainissement, comme prévu ci-dessus, auront été échangées antérieurement à la date d'exécution du présent Accord.

En foi de quoi , les parties intéressés ont arrêté le présent Accord de Prorogation et l'on fait signer en double original par leurs Représentants, en anglais et en français, à Port-au-Prince, Haiti ce trente Septembre mil neuf cent quarante sept.

Pour le Gouvernement de la République d'Haiti : S): EDMÉ TH. MANIGAT

Pour l'Institut des Affaires Interaméricaines : S): EDWIN L. DUDLEY

Edwin F. Dudley

[SEAL ]

61 STAT.] ITALY- MILITARY AND CIVIL AFFAIRS- SEPT. 3, 1947

3661

Agreement between the United States of America and Italy respecting the rights and privileges of United States forces in Italy, and the transfer of responsibility from the Allied Military Government to the Italian Government. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Rome September 3, 1947; entered into force September 3, 1947 .

September 3, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1694]

The American Ambassador to the Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs

F. O. No. 441

ROME, September 3, 1947.

YOUR EXCELLENCY, Article 73 of the Treaty of Peace between the Allied and Associ-
ated Powers and Italy, provides that all Armed Forces of the Allied and Associated Powers shall be withdrawn from Italy as soon as

Withdrawal of Allied Armed Forces
fr6o1mISttalayt; . , Pt . 2, p. 1396.

possible and in any case not later than ninety days from the coming into force of the Peace Treaty. The numbers of the Armed Forces of the United States in Italy have , as the Italian Government is aware, been progressively reduced and it is the desire of the United States Government that those few that still remain shall be withdrawn with

the least possible delay. Further, as from the date of entry into

force of the Treaty of Peace, it will be necessary for Allied Military

Government, which has long been restricted to the part of Venezia

Giulia west of the so-called Morgan Line and to the Province of

Udine, to be finally brought to an end. In order ( 1 ) that the position of the aforesaid United States Forces
during the period while they remain in Italy may be defined , par-

Provisions agreed upon.

ticularly as regards matters of jurisdiction , and that certain ambiguities

which otherwise might arise in regard to the facilities to be afforded

them may be removed, and in order (2) to provide for the smooth transfer of responsibility from the hands of Allied Military Government to the hands of the Italian Government , discussions have taken

place between representatives of the United States Government and the Italian Government who have agreed upon the provisions set out in the annex of which part I relates to the position of the United States Forces and part II to the transfer of responsibility of the Allied Military Government.
I have the honor to inform your Excellency that the United States

Post, p. 3662. Post, p. 3666.
Entry into force.

Government has confirmed its approval of these provisions and to suggest that if the Italian Government is prepared to do likewise, the

present Note together with your Excellency's reply shall be regarded

as constituting an agreement between our two Governments on the

matter which will enter into force ( 1 ) simultaneously with the Peace Treaty between the Allied and Associated Powers and Italy as regards the provisions in part I of the annex , and (2) as from today's date as regards the provisions of part II .
95347-50-PT. IV- 21

61 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 1245.
Post, p. 3666.

3662

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
JAMES CLEMENT DUNN Enclosure :
Military and Civil Affairs Agreement (Annex) . His Excellency
Count CARLO Sforza , Minister of Foreign Affairs, Rome.

PART I.

ANNEX

1.

Immunities of U. S. Forces, etc.

A. The United States Forces, including their equipment and stores, shall continue to enjoy, generally, those immunities and facilities which have been afforded them hitherto, when present in or passing

through, Italy . In availing themselves of these immunities and fa-

cilities, the United States Forces will take due account of the interests of the Italian population.

B. Supplementary agreements on points of detail have been or will be made between the United States High Command and the appropriate Italian authorities.

2.

U.FaSc.ilFiotriceess. accorded

A. The United States Forces shall , in agreement with the competent
Italian authorities, continue to enjoy such facilities for movement in and through Italy, including Italian waters and the air space over Italian territory, as are necessary for their complete and early withdrawal.

B. The Italian Government agrees to accord the United States Forces all facilities afforded by Italian ports (including dockyards, dry docks and ship repairing facilities) , public services , utilities, railroads , land waterways, telecommunications , and airfields which the Commanding General may request to effect prompt withdrawal of United States Forces for which purpose the Italian Government will afford the necessary priorities . In particular the Italian Government agrees that for mutual convenience special areas in Italian ports may continue to be designated by the Commanding General for the exclusive use of the United States Forces . The Commanding General may continue to police such areas and control the operation of port facilities therein . The Italian Government further agrees that the Commanding General shall have all rights necessary to the creation or maintenance for such time as shall appear necessary of such ports, camps, stations , hospitals, shops, depots, staging areas and such other military facilities and installations as he may determine to be necessary for the purpose of this agreement .

61 STAT.] ITALY-MILITARY AND CIVIL AFFAIRS- SEPT. 3, 1947

3663

Control and safety C. The United States High Command shall be entitled to participate, of air traffic. on basis of agreements to be made with competent Italian authorities,
in any organization that the Italian authorities may set up for the
control and safety of air traffic and of aircraft flying over Italian
territory .

3.

Pending the completion of their withdrawal, the United States Use of premises.

Forces may continue to use such of the premises which they at present occupy, for so long as the United States High Command consider necessary. All premises will be vacated as soon as possible and in any case not later than ninety days after the coming into force of the Peace Treaty except for some warehouses which may be required for a short period thereafter for the storage of equipment which is required for use up to the date of final withdrawal and which cannot be shipped on that date.

61 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 1245.

4.

In order to meet the signals and postal requirements of the United

Signals and postal requirements of U. S.

States Forces.

Forces.

A. The Italian Government and the United States High Command will cooperate with a view to the use , by the latter, with the same right of priority as hitherto of such Italian telecommunications, radar and other communication services , including radio aids, as may be required for the purposes of the United States Forces.

B. The United States High Command shall be entitled to continue to maintain and operate such radio and radar stations and landline communications networks as are necessary for the purposes of the United States Forces and to use United States codes, cyphers and security equipment.

C. The competent Italian authorities and the United States High Command will continue to cooperate as hitherto with a view to the coordination, regulations, and allocation of all frequencies required for radio communications networks and radar installations.

D. The United States Forces may continue to conduct their own postal system and to retain existing postal arrangements and franking

privileges .

5.

The United States Forces may continue to engage local civilian labor as required , either directly or through the intermediary of the

Local civilian labor.

competent local Italian authorities at current wage rates.

6.

The United States Forces shall , within the limits of their necessities Purchase of local produce, etc.
in Italy continue to have the right to purchase local produce, supplies and manufactured goods in Italy, either directly or through the intermediary of the competent local Italian authorities. In order that

such purchases may not have an adverse effect upon Italian economy the United States High Command will come to an understanding

3664

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

with appropriate Italian authorities upon the particular articles which, from time to time, shall be excluded from local purchases by the United States Forces.

7.

Jurisdiction of U. S. military courts, etc.

The Italian Government agrees that the United States Forces,

military and naval courts and commissions shall continue to have

exclusive jurisdiction , civil and criminal, over all members of the United States Forces in conformity with arrangements already in

force.

Tax exemption.

8.
The United States Forces and organizations or persons employed by or accompanying these Forces and property belonging to them or to their Government shall continue to be exempt from all Italian taxation (including customs) . The United States High Command will continue to take the necessary steps to ensure that such property is not sold to the public in Italy, except in agreement with the Italian Government .

9.

prPemoilsiecsi. ng of U. S. A. The United States Forces shall have the right to police premises and areas set aside for their special use and to employ military police patrols in other areas as may be necessary for the maintenance of good order and discipline of the United States Forces . Persons who are subject to the jurisdiction of the Italian authorities may be arrested by the United States service police within such premises or areas but shall be handed over without delay to competent Italian authorities.

insOtfaflelnasteisonosu,testic.de the B. The Italian police shall continue to arrest personnel subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States Forces for offenses against Italian law outside the installations, camps , areas and buildings

referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph, and detain them until they can be handed over for disposal to the appropriate United States Military authorities . A certificate signed by a United States officer of field grade or equivalent rank that the person to whom it refers belongs to one of the classes of persons mentioned in paragraph 13 below will continue to be conclusive. The procedure for handing over

such persons shall continue to be a matter for local arrangements .

Immediate notification of any such arrest will be given to the nearest

Persons deemed to be a danger to U. 8.
forces.

United States military installation . C. The Italian Government will, at the request of the United States High Command , arrest, detain , and where sufficient evidence is

produced, put on trial any persons deemed to be a danger to the

security of the United States forces in Italy. In making such a request

for arrest, the United States High Command will state its reason for

doing so.

Mutual assistance.

10.
The Commanding General or his representatives and the appropriate Italian authorities will continue to render such mutual assistance

61 STAT. ] ITALY- MILITARY AND CIVIL AFFAIRS- SEPT. 3, 1947

3665

as may be required for making investigations, collecting evidence, securing the attendance of witnesses , in relation to cases triable under Allied , United States or Italian jurisdiction and to provide procedure for punishment in appropriate courts of witnesses who refuse or fail to comply with a summons, improperly refuse to testify, or who commit perjury or contempt of court.
11. Displaced persons,
The Italian Government agrees that the United States Forces etc. shall have the right to hold, support and transfer any displaced persons, refugees or other internees who have not previously been transferred to the care of some other government or organization and for whose care the United States or Allied authorities may be responsible upon the coming into force of the treaty of peace, and to afford the United States Forces such facilities and assistance as may be required for the above mentioned purposes.
12 . Compensation for
The Italian Government will continue to make available all services services furnished by Italian Government,
and facilities required by the United States Armed Forces during t this period on the same basis as in the past, in consideration for which the United States Government shall pay to the Italian Government the amount of $250,000 , which amount shall be considered as full compensation for all such services and facilities furnished by the Italian Government under the terms of this Agreement. All other financial arrangements in effect between the Armed Forces of the United States and the Italian Government on February 1 , 1947 , shall continue in effect for the period of this Agreement. 13 .
The term "United States Forces" when used in this agreement "Uni Forces.""ted States shall be defined as United States Armed Forces including persons of non-Italian nationality not belonging to such forces but who are employed by or who accompany or serve with those forces and the dependents of such persons , and Governmental organizations and accredited agencies operating under or in conjunction with such forces whenever applicable. Included in the foregoing are :
CLASS I. United States citizens who are :
1. War Department civilian employees 2. Personnel of the American Red Cross
3. Personnel employed by the Army Exchange Service 4. Other personnel possessing United States Armed
Forces orders, for the period covered by the order.
CLASS II. United States citizens and aliens who are:
1. Dependents of United States Armed Forces personnel , regardless of nationality .
2. Dependents of Class I personnel indicated above.

3666

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

PART II

14 .

Transfer of responsibility.

The responsibility for the areas at present under Allied Military

Government will pass to the Italian Government on the date of the

p.611245S.tat . , Pt . 2 ,

entry into force of the Peace Treaty. In order that the transfer of responsibility may be effected as smoothly and efficiently as possible , the United States High Command will make necessary arrangements

with competent Italian authorities with the object of ensuring that

necessary Italian personnel may in good time be put in a position to

replace United States personnel exercising military government functions .

15 .

Trials by Military Government Courts.

The United States High Command may, up to the end of the ninety

day period for the withdrawal of the United States Forces from Italy,

continue to conduct and complete the trial by Military Government

p.611245S.tat . , Pt . 2.

Courts of any person charged with an offense before the date of the entry into force of the Peace Treaty and cognizable under any proclamation or order heretofore issued by or on behalf of the Allied Military

Government, or cognizable under Italian law if committed against persons, property or security of the Allied Forces.

61 STAT. ] ITALY-MILITARY AND CIVIL AFFAIRS-SEPT. 3, 1947

The Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

IL MINISTRO DEGLÍ AFFARI ESTERI

ROMA, 3 settembre 1947

SIGNOR AMBASCIATORE, con la nota direttami in data odierna Vostra Eccellenza ha voluto
comunicarmi quanto segue :

"Your Excellency,

"Article 73 of the Treaty of Peace between the Allied and Associated "Powers and ITALY, provides that all Armed Forces of the Allied "and Associated Powers shall be withdrawn from ITALY as soon as

"possible and in any case NOT later than ninety days from the "coming into force of the Peace Treaty. The numbers of the Armed "Forces of the UNITED STATES in ITALY have, as the Italian "Government is aware, been progressively reduced and it is the desire "of the United States Government that those few that still remain

"shall be withdrawn with the least possible delay. Further, as from "the date of entry into force of the Treaty of Peace, it will be "necessary for Allied Military Government, which has long been

"restricted to the part of Venezia Giulia WEST of the so-called "MORGAN Line and to the Province of UDINE, to be finally "brought to an end.

"In order ( 1 ) that the position of the aforesaid United States "Forces during the period while they remain in ITALY may be "defined , particularly as regards matters of jurisdiction, and that "certain ambiguities which otherwise might arise in regard to the "facilities to be afforded them may be removed , and in order (2) to "provide for the smooth transfer of responsibility from the hands of "Allied Military Government to the hands of the Italian Govern"ment, discussions have taken place between representatives of the "United States Government and the Italian Government who have

"agreed upon the provisions set out in the annex of which part I "relates to the position of the United States Forces and part II to "the transfer of responsibility of the Allied Military Government.
"I have the honor to inform your Excellency that the United "States Government has confirmed its approval of these provisions

"and to suggest that if the Italian Government is prepared to do "likewise, the present Note together with your Excellency's reply "shall be regarded as constituting an agreement between our two "Governments on the matter which will enter into force (1 ) simul"taneously with the Peace Treaty between the Allied and Associated "Powers and ITALY as regards the provisions in part I of the annex,

"and (2) as from today's date as regards the provisions of part II. "Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest con-
"sideration".

Ho l'onore di portare a conoscenza dell'Eccellenza Vostra che il Governo Italiano concorda con quanto Ella ha proposto con la nota predetta ed approva da parte sua le disposizioni contenute nell'-

Annesso unito alla nota stessa, il cui testo in lingua italiana è allegato alla presente lettera.

3667

3668

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Voglia gradire, Signor Ambasciatore , gli atti della mia più alta considerazione
SFORZA Sua Eccellenza
il Signor JAMES CLEMENT DUNN Ambasciatore degli Stati Uniti d'America Roma
ANNESSO
PARTE PRIMA
1.a) Le Forze degli Stati Uniti , ivi compresi il loro equipaggiamento e depositi , allorchè sosteranno o transiteranno in territorio italiano , continueranno in linea generale a beneficiare di quelle immunità e facilitazioni che sono state loro concesse finora. Nell'avvalersi di tali immunità e facilitazioni , le Forze degli Stati Uniti terranno dovuto conto degli interessi della popolazione italiana.
b) Accordi supplementari su questioni di dettaglio sono stati e saranno conchiusi tra l'Alto Comando degli Stati Uniti e le competenti Autorità Italiane.
2.a) Le Forze degli Stati Uniti , d'accordo con le competenti Autorità Italiane, continueranno a godere, per i loro movimenti entro il territorio italiano , ivi comprese le acque italiane e lo spazio aereo sovrastante il territorio italiano , di quelle facilitazioni che siano necessarie per il loro completo e rapido ritiro .
b) Il Governo Italiano acconsente a concedere alle Forze degli Stati Uniti tutte le facilitazioni offerte dai porti italiani (ivi compresi cantieri , bacini di carenaggio, ed attrezzature per riparazioni di navi ) , servizi pubblici , impianti, ferrovie , vie di navigazione fluviale, telecomunicazioni , ed aeroporti che il Generale Comandante possa richiedere per effettuare il sollecito ritiro delle Forze degli Stati Uniti, per il quale scopo il Governo Italiano accorderà le precedenze necessarie.
In particolare, il Governo Italiano acconsente a che, per mutua convenienza, speciali zone nei porti italiani possano continuare a venir designate dal Generale Comandante per uso esclusivo delle Forze degli Stati Uniti. Il Generale Comandante potrà continuare ad esercitare poteri di polizia in tali zone e controllarvi il funzionamento delle attrezzature portuali. Il Governo Italiano inoltre acconsente a che il Generale abbia tutti i diritti occorrenti per la istituzione e il mantenimento , per il tempo che apparirà necessario , di quei porti , accampamenti , stazioni , ospedali , magazzini , depositi , zone di smistamento ed ogni altra attrezzatura o istallazione militare che egli ritenga necessari ai fini del presente accordo .
c) L'Alto Comando degli Stati Uniti avrà facoltà di partecipare, sulla base di accordi da prendere con le Autorità Italiane competenti , a qualsiasi organizzazione che le Autorità Italiane potranno costituire per il controllo e la sicurezza del traffico aereo e degli apparecchi che sorvolino il territorio italiano .

61 STAT. ] ITALY-MILITARY AND CIVIL AFFAIRS- SEPT. 3, 1947
3. ) Durante l'effettuazione del loro completo ritiro , le Forze degli Stati Uniti potranno continuare ad usare quegli edifici che esse occupano attualmente e per tutto il tempo che l'Alto Comando degli Stati Uniti riterrà necessario .
Tutti gli edifici saranno evacuati appena possibile ed in ogni caso non oltre il novantesimo giorno dopo l'entrata in vigore del Trattato di Pace fatta eccezione per alcuni magazzini che possono essere richiesti per un breve periodo oltre tale data allo scopo di depositarvi materiali che debbono essere usati fino alla data del ritiro definitivo e che non possono essere spediti alla data stessa. 4. ) Per far fronte alle necessità postali e di telecomunicazioni delle Forze degli Stati Uniti:
a) - il Governo Italiano e l'Alto Comando degli Stati Uniti coopereranno affinchè quest'ultimo possa avvalersi , con lo stesso diritto di precedenza goduto finora, dei servizi di telecomunicazione, servizi RADAR e altri mezzi di comunicazione compresa l'assistenza radiotelegrafica, che possono essere richiesti dai bisogni delle Forze degli Stati Uniti.
b) - L'Alto Comando degli Stati Uniti avrà la facoltà de continuare a mantenere e far funzionare quelle stazioni radio e RADAR e reti di comunicazione terrestri che siano necessarie per i bisogni delle Forze degli Stati Uniti e ad usare codici degli Stati Uniti , cifrari e mezzi di sicurezza .
c) - Le competenti Autorità Italiane e l'Alto Comando degli Stati Uniti continueranno a cooperare come prima alla coordinazione, regolamentazione e assegnazione di tutte le frequenze di onda richieste per la rete di radio comunicazioni e le istallazioni RADAR .
d ) - Le Forze degli Stati Uniti potranno continuare a gestire il loro proprio sistema postale e ad usufruire degli accordi postali esistenti e dei privilegi di franchigia.
5. ) Le Forze degli Stati Uniti potranno continuare ad assumere localmente personale civile secondo i loro bisogni, sia direttamente che tramite le competenti Autorità Italiane locali , alle condizioni salariali correnti .
6. ) Le Forze degli Stati Uniti continueranno , entro i limiti delle loro necessità in Italia ad avere il diritto di acquistare prodotti locali derrate e manufatti, sia direttamente che per il tramite delle competenti Autorità Italiane locali . Ad evitare che tali acquisti possano avere effetti dannosi all'economia italiana, l'Alto Comando degli Stati Uniti prenderà accordi con le competenti Autorità Italiane per escludere di volta in volta determinati articoli dagli acquisti locali delle Forze degli Stati Uniti. 7.) Il Governo Italiano acconsente a che le Forze degli Stati Uniti, i Tribunali e le Commissioni Militari e Navali continuino ad avere esclusiva giurisdizione civile e penale su tutti i membri delle Forze degli Stati Uniti in conformità alle intese già in vigore.
8. ) Le Forze degli Stati Uniti e gli enti o le persone impiegate da tali Forze o che ne fanno parte e i beni appartenenti ad esse ed al

3669

3670

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
loro Governo continueranno ad essere esenti da ogni imposta italiana, compresi i dazi doganali .
L'Alto Comando degli Stati Uniti continuerà a prendere i provvedimenti necessari ad evitare che i detti beni siano venduti al pubblico italiano se non d'accordo con il Governo Italiano .
9. a) Le Forze degli Stati Uniti avranno il diritto di esercitare poteri di polizia negli edifici e nelle zone destinate al loro uso particolare e di impiegare pattuglie di polizia militare in altre zone quando ciò sia necessario allo scopo di mantenere l'ordine e la disciplina delle truppe degli Stati Uniti. Persone sottoposte alla giurisdizione delle Autorità Italiane possono essere arrestate dalla polizia militare degli Stati Uniti entro tali edifici e zone ma saranno senza indugio consegnate alle competenti Autorità Italiane.
b) La polizia italiana continuerà ad arrestare persone sottoposte all'esclusiva giurisdizione delle Forze degli Stati Uniti per offese alla legge italiana al di fuori delle istallazioni, accampamenti , aree ed edifici di cui è menzione nel precedente comma, trattenendo tali persone finchè potranno essere messe a disposizione delle competenti Autorità militari degli Stati Uniti. A tale scopo continuerà ad essere sufficiente una dichiarazione firmata da un ufficiale superiore degli Stati Uniti o di grado equivalente, attestante che le persone di cui si tratta appartengono ad una delle categorie di cui all'art . 13 . La procedura per il trasferimento di tali persone sarà fissata localmente. Notifica immediata di ogni arresto del genere verrà data al più vicino posto militare degli Stati Uniti .
c) Il Governo Italiano , a richiesta dell'Alto Comando degli Stati Uniti , procederà al fermo , alla detenzione e , quando vi siano prove sufficienti , al rinvio a giudizio delle persone ritenute pericolose alla sicurezza delle Forze degli Stati Uniti in Italia. Nell'avanzare tali richieste d'arresto l'Alto Comando degli Stati Uniti ne comunicherà i motivi. 10. ) Il Generale Comandante o i suoi rappresentanti e le competenti Autorità Italiane continueranno a prestarsi quella reciproca assistenza che sarà necessaria per le indagini , la raccolta di prove e la comparsa di testimoni, in relazione a procedimenti sottoposti alla giurisdizione alleata, degli Stati Uniti o italiana nonchè a provvedere per la condanna dinanzi alla magistratura competente di testimoni che rifiutino o manchino di ottemperare alle citazioni , rifiutino indebitamente di testimoniare o giurino il falso o commettano oltraggio all'autorità giudiziaria .
11. ) Il Governo Italiano acconsente a che le Forze degli Stati Uniti abbiano il diritto di custodire, mantenere e trasferire i " D. P. " , i rifugiati e gli altri internati che non siano stati previamente trasferiti a cura di altro governo od organizzazione e per i quali gli Stati Uniti o le Autorità Alleate siano responsabili all'atto dell'entrata in vigore del trattato di pace, nonchè ad accordare alle Forze degli Stati Uniti le facilitazioni e l'assistenza che siano necessari agli scopi anzidetti.
12. ) Durante questo periodo il Governo Italiano continuerà a mantenere a disposizione tutti i servizi e le agevolazioni necessarie alle

61 STAT.] ITALY- MILITARY AND CIVIL AFFAIRS- SEPT. 3, 1947
Forze Armate degli Stati Uniti, sulla stessa base che in passato ; in considerazione di ciò il Governo degli Stati Uniti pagherà al Governo Italiano la somma di dollari 250 mila, ammontare che verrà considerato come totale rimborso per tutti i servizi e le agevolazioni forniti dal Governo Italiano ai termini del presente accordo.
Ogni altro accordo di carattere finanziario avente vigore fra le FF. AA. degli Stati Uniti e il Governo Italiano al 1 ° febbraio 1947, continuerà ad aver vigore per la durata del presente accordo . 13. ) L'espressione "Forze degli Stati Uniti " , usata nel presente accordo va intesa come "Forze Armate degli Stati Uniti" ivi comprese le persone di nazionalità non italiana che, pur non appartenendo a tali Forze, siano impiegate o accompagnino o prestino servizio con esse ed i loro dipendenti , nonchè gli enti governativi e gli agenti accreditati che svolgono la loro attività alle dipendenze o in collegamento con le forze stesse . Sono inclusi nelle categorie precedenti : Gruppo I - Cittadini degli Stati Uniti che sono:
a) Impiegati civili del Dipartimento della Guerra b) Personale della Croce Rossa Americana c) Personale impiegato dall ""Army Exchange Service" d) Altro Personale che sia fornito di documenti di viaggio rilasciati dalle Forze Armate degli Stati Uniti per il periodo cui si riferiscono i documenti stessi. Gruppo II - Cittadini degli Stati Uniti e stranieri che sono :
a) Familiari a carico di personale delle Forze Armate degli Stati Uniti, indipendentemente dalla nazionalità.
b) Familiari a carico del personale del Gruppo I suindicato .
PARTE SECONDA
14.) La responsabilità per le zone attualmente sotto il Governo Militare Alleato passerà al Governo Italiano alla data dell'entrata in vigore del Trattato di Pace . Allo scopo di assicurare che il trasferimento di tale responsabilità venga effettuato nel modo più normale ed efficace possibile, l'Alto Comando degli Stati Uniti prenderà gli accordi necessari con le competenti Autorità Italiane al fine di assicurare che il personale italiano necessario sia tempestivamente posto in grado di sostituire il personale degli Stati Uniti esercitante funzioni di governo militare.
15. ) L'Alto Comando degli Stati Uniti ha facoltà , entro il periodo di novanta giorni stabiliti per il ritiro delle Forze degli Stati Uniti dall'Italia , di continuare sino ad esaurimento da parte dei tribunali militari lo svolgimento dei processi in corso contro chiunque sia accusato di reato commesso anteriormente alla data dell'entrata in vigore del Trattato di Pace, reate contemplato da un qualsiasi proclama od ordinanza già emanata dal governo militare alleato o per suo conto, o previsto dalla legge italiana , se sia stato commesso contro persone, la proprietà o la sicurezza delle forze alleate.

3671

3672

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Translation

THE MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

ROME, September 3, 1947

MR. AMBASSADOR :

By the note of today's date addressed to me, Your Excellency was good enough to inform me as follows:

[For the text of the American Ambassador's note see p. 3661. ]

Italian agreement with proposal.
Ante, p. 3662.

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Italian Government is in agreement with the proposal made by you in the preceding note and approves for its part the provisions contained in the Annex attached to the said note, the text of which in the Italian

language is enclosed with the present letter .

Please accept, Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my highest consideration.

SFORZA

His Excellency JAMES CLEMENT DUNN

Ambassador of the United States of America Rome

61 STAT. ] ITALY-MILITARY AND CIVIL AFFAIRS-SEPT. 3, 1947
ANNEX
FIRST PART
1. (a) The United States Forces, including their equipment and stores, shall continue to enjoy, generally, those immunities and facilities which have been afforded them hitherto , when present in or passing through Italian territory. In availing themselves of such immunities and facilities, the United States Forces will take due account of the interests of the Italian people.
(b) Supplementary agreements on points of detail have been and will be made between the United States High Command and the appropriate Italian authorities.
2. (a) The United States Forces shall, in agreement with the competent Italian authorities, continue to enjoy such facilities for movement within Italian territory, including Italian waters and the air space above Italian territory, as are necessary for their complete and rapid withdrawal.
(b) The Italian Government agrees to accord to the United States Forces all facilities afforded by Italian ports (including dockyards, dry docks, and ship repairing facilities) , public services, plants , railroads , land waterways, telecommunications and airports which the Commanding General may request to effect prompt withdrawal of the United States Forces, for which purpose the Italian Government will afford the necessary priorities.
In particular, the Italian Government agrees that, for mutual convenience, special areas in Italian ports may continue to be designated by the Commanding General for the exclusive use of the United States Forces. The Commanding General may continue to police such areas and to have control of the operation of port facilities therein . The Italian Government also agrees that the Commanding General shall have all rights necessary for the creation and maintenance , for such time as shall appear necessary, of such ports, camps, stations, hospitals, warehouses , depots, staging areas and such other military facilities or installations which he may consider necessary for the purposes of this agreement.
(c) The United States High Command shall be entitled to participate, on the basis of agreements to be made with the competent Italian authorities, in any organization that the Italian authorities may set up for the control and safety of air traffic and of aircraft flying over Italian territory.
3.) Pending the completion of their withdrawal, the United States Forces may continue to make use of such buildings which they at present occupy, for so long as the United States High Command may consider necessary.
All buildings will be evacuated as soon as possible and in any case no later than the ninetieth day after the coming into force of the Peace Treaty except for some warehouses which may be required for a short period thereafter for the storage of equipment which is to be used up to the date of final withdrawal and which cannot be shipped on that date.

3673

3674

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
4.) In order to meet the postal and telecommunications requirements of the United States Forces :
(a) The Italian Government and the United States High Command will cooperate in order that the latter may avail itself, with the same right of priority as hitherto, of telecommunications and radar services and other means of communication, including radio-telegraph aids , as may be required by the needs of the United States Armed Forces .
(b) The United States High Command shall be entitled to continue to maintain and operate such radio and radar stations and landline communications networks as are necessary for the needs of the United States Forces and to use United States codes , ciphers and security equipment.
(c) The competent Italian authorities and the United States High Command will continue to cooperate as hitherto in the coordination, regulation, and allocation of all frequencies required for radio communications networks and radar installations .
(d) The United States Forces may continue to conduct their own postal system and to make use of existing postal agreements and franking privileges . 5.) The United States Forces may continue to engage locally civilian personnel as required , either directly or through the intermediary of the competent local Italian authorities, at current wage rates . 6.) The United States Forces shall, within the limits of their necessities in Italy, continue to have the right to purchase local produce, commodities and manufactured goods, either directly or through the intermediary of the competent local Italian authorities. In order that such purchases may not have an adverse effect upon Italian economy, the United States High Command will come to an understanding with the appropriate Italian authorities to exclude from time to time particular articles from local purchases by the United States Forces .
7.) The Italian Government agrees that the United States Forces, military and naval courts and commissions shall continue to have exclusive jurisdiction , civil and criminal , over all members of the United States Forces in conformity with the arrangements already in force. 8.) The United States Forces and the organizations or persons employed by such Forces or which are part of them and property belonging to them and to their Government shall continue to be exempt from all Italian taxation , including customs.
The United States High Command will continue to take the necessary steps to ensure that such property is not sold to the Italian public except in agreement with the Italian Government.
9. (a) The United States Forces shall have the right to exercise police powers in the buildings and areas set aside for their special use and to employ military police patrols in other areas when that may be necessary to maintain the order and discipline of the United States troops . Persons who are subject to the jurisdiction of the Italian authorities may be arrested by the United States military

61 STAT. ] ITALY- MILITARY AND CIVIL AFFAIRS-SEPT. 3, 1947
police within such buildings and areas but shall be turned over without delay to the competent Italian authorities.
(b) The Italian police shall continue to arrest persons subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States Forces for offenses against Italian law outside the installations , camps , areas and buildings referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph, and detain such persons until they can be placed at the disposal of the appropriate United States military authorities. For that purpose, a certificate signed by a United States officer of field grade or equivalent rank attesting that the persons in question belong to one of the classes mentioned in Article 13 will continue to be sufficient. The procedure for the transfer of such persons shall be determined locally. Immediate notification of such arrest will be given to the nearest United States military post.
(c) The Italian Government will, at the request of the United States High Command , arrest, detain and, when there is sufficient proof, put on trial persons dangerous to the security of the United States Forces in Italy. In making such requests for arrest, the United States High Command shall indicate the reasons for doing so.
10. The Commanding General or his representatives and the appropriate Italian Authorities will continue to render such mutual assistance as may be required for the investigations, collection of evidence and the appearance of witnesses, in relation to proceedings subject to Allied , United States or Italian jurisdiction and to provide for the sentencing in the appropriate courts of witnesses who refuse or fail to comply with the summons , improperly refuse to testify, or who commit perjury or who are in contempt of court .
11. ) The Italian Government agrees that the United States Forces shall have the right to hold , support and transfer any "D.P's" , refugees and other internees who have not previously been transferred to the care of some other government or organization and for whom the United States or Allied authorities may be responsible upon the coming into force of the treaty of peace, and agrees to afford the United States Forces such facilities and assistance as may be required for the above-mentioned purposes.
12. ) The Italian Government will continue to make available all the services and facilities required by the United States Armed Forces during this period on the same basis as in the past in consideration for which the United States Government shall pay to the Italian Government the amount of 250 thousand dollars, which amount shall be considered as full compensation for all the services and facilities furnished by the Italian Government under the terms of the present agreement .
All other financial arrangements in effect between the Armed Forces of the United States and the Italian Government on February 1 , 1947 shall continue in effect for the period of this Agreement.
13.) The term "United States Forces", used in this agreement shall be understood as United States Armed Forces, including persons of
non-Italian nationality who, although not belonging to such Forces,

3675

3676

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
are employed by or accompany or serve with them and their dependents, and government organizations and accredited agents operating under or in conjunction with such forces . Included in the preceding category are : Class I United States citizens who are :
(a) War Department civilian employees . (b) Personnel of the American Red Cross. (c) Personnel employed by the Army Exchange Service. (d) Other Personnel possessing (travel orders issued by the United
States Armed Forces, for the period referred to in) such orders. Class II - United States citizens and aliens who are :
(a) Dependents of United States Armed Forces personnel regardless of nationality .
(b) Dependents of the Class I personnel indicated above.
SECOND PART
14.) The responsibility for the areas at present under the Allied Military Government will pass to the Italian Government on the date of the entering into effect of the Peace Treaty. In order to make certain that the transfer of such responsibility may be effected as smoothly and efficiently as possible, the United States High Command will make the necessary arrangements with the competent Italian authorities with the object of ensuring that the necessary Italian personnel may in good time be put in a position to replace United States personnel exercising military government functions.
15.) The United States High Command may, within the period of ninety days set for the withdrawal of the United States Forces from Italy, continue to conduct and complete the trial by the Military Courts of anyone charged with an offense committed before the date of the entry into force of the Peace Treaty, an offense covered by any proclamation or order heretofore issued by or on behalf of the Allied Military Government , or covered by Italian law, if committed against persons, property or the security of the Allied Forces.

61 STAT.]

CANADA- CANOL PROJECT-FEB. 26, 1945

3677

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting an arrangement for evaluation of all facilities of the Canol Project. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Ottawa February 26, 1945; entered into force February 26, 1945.

February 26, 1945 [T. I. A. 8. 1695]

The American Ambassador to the Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs

No. 290 SIR :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Ottawa, Canada, February 26, 1945.

I have the honor to refer to previous correspondence and specifically to the exchanges of notes of June 27 and 29 , 1942 , August 14 and 15, 1942 , and June 7 , 1944 , as well as to recent discussions which

57 Stat. 1413.
57 Stat. 1416; 58 Stat. 1384.

have taken place with officials of your Government, all with regard to the Canol Project.
In the note of June 27, 1942 , my Government proposed that the

57 Stat. 1413.

pipeline from Norman Wells to Whitehorse and the refinery at White-

horse should be operated under contracts with it or by its agents or representatives during the war. I am instructed now to propose

that this shall not be construed as requiring that the United States shall continue to operate the pipeline and the refinery until the termination of hostilities, and further to seek the agreement of your Government that the United States may terminate or modify opera-

tion of any or all of the facilities of the Canol Project including the products pipeline system when, in its opinion, military considerations make such a course desirable. It is understood that the United

States authorities will remain responsible for such care or maintenance of the facilities as they regard as necessary or desirable.
In the exchange of notes of August 14 and 15, 1942 , it was provided that at the termination of hostilities discussions should be undertaken at the request of either Government with a view to reaching an agreement in regard to the disposition of the pipeline from Skagway to Whitehorse. Subsequently, by exchange of notes dated June 7 , 1944, the two Governments agreed that the foregoing arrangements should apply also to the gasoline distribution lines from Carcross to Watson Lake and from Whitehorse to Fairbanks . My Government now desires to propose that the products pipeline system be evaluated by the appraisers appointed for the valuation of the crude oil system, but as an independent problem.
The exchange of notes of June 27 and 29 , 1942 , provides for valuation of the crude oil pipeline and refinery at the termination of hostilities at the then commercial value of these facilities. My Government now desires to propose that all the facilities of the Canol Project,
95347-50-PT. IV- 22

57 Stat. 1416. 58 Stat. 1384. 57 Stat. 1413.

3678

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
including the products pipeline system, shall be valued at their commercial values as of the time or times of the completion of the appraisal, and in this connection it proposes that appraisal of the Canol Project should be initiated within a reasonable time following notice of the termination of operation of the project, or a major part thereof, and completed as soon as practicable.
It therefore further proposes that the two Governments appoint representatives at an early date in order jointly to inspect the physical property , collect information and submit preliminary reports relating to evaluation as early as practicable and, if possible, prior to the termination of operations.
If your Government agrees to the proposals made herein it is suggested that this note and your reply indicating such agreement shall be regarded as placing on record the understanding of the two Governments on this matter.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . RAY ATHERTON
The Right Honorable The Secretary of State for External Affairs, Ottawa.

The Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANADA

No. 17

OTTAWA, February 26, 1945.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honour to acknowledge your note No. 290 of February 26 in which you make certain proposals with regard to the Canol Project.
The proposals set forth in your note are acceptable to the Canadian Government, and it is agreed that your note and this reply shall be regarded as placing on record the understanding arrived at between the two Governments on this matter.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
W. L. MACKENZIE KING.

Secretary of State for External Affairs.
His Excellency The United States Ambassador to Canada,

Embassy of the United States of America, Ottawa, Canada.

61 STAT. ]

Aug. 31 , 1945 CANADA- CANOL PROJECT- Sept. 6, 1945

3679

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting waiver by Canada of certain rights relating to crude oil facilities of the Canol Project. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Ottawa August 31, and September 6, 1945; entered into force September 6, 1945.

August 31 and September 6, 1945
[T. I. A. S. 1696]

The Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANADA

No. 83

OTTAWA, August 31, 1945.

SIR :

Under the exchange of notes of June 27-29 , 1942 , the Canadian

Government acquired an option to purchase the facilities of the crude oil pipeline from Norman Wells to Whitehorse and the refinery at Whitehorse at a valuation based upon the commercial value of the pipeline and refinery as agreed by valuers named by Canada and the United States . Under the exchange of notes of February 26 , 1945,

it was agreed that this valuation should take place within a reasonable

time following notice of the termination of operation of the project or a major part thereof.

The Canadian Government has decided not to exercise the option referred to in the preceding paragraph and desires to inform the Government of the United States that it is now willing to waive that option. Under these circumstances it believes that the interest of neither country would be served by proceeding with former plans for joint valuation and that these should therefore be abandoned .

The exchange of notes of June 27-29, 1942, provided that if the Canadian Government did not exercise its option, now waived, to

purchase the crude oil facilities within three months, they might be offered for sale by public tender with the amount of the valuation as the reserve price . In view of the desire of the Canadian Government

not to proceed with joint valuation of the project, the Canadian Government likewise waives the provision above referred to whereby the facilities must be offered at the reserve price.
It is understood that the United States Government will at a later

date submit to the Canadian Government plans for the disposition of the Canol facilities .
The Canadian Government hopes that the waivers of its rights as set forth above will be acceptable to the Government of the United States and will facilitate disposition of the Canol facilities.

57 Stat. 1413. Ante, p. 3677.
57 Stat. 1413.

3680

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. NA ROBERTSON
For Secretary of State for External Affairs. The Charge d'Affaires a.i.,
United States Embassy, Ottawa, Canada.

The American Ambassador to the Canadian Secretary of Statefor External Affairs

No. 366.

OTTAWA, CANADA , September 6, 1945.

SIR :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note No. 83 of August 31 , 1945, regarding the crude oil facilities of the Canol

Project, and to confirm the understanding that the Government of the United States will at a later date submit to the Canadian Govern-

ment plans for the disposition of the Canol facilities.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. RAY ATHERTON

The Right Honorable The Secretary of State for External Affairs, Ottawa.

61 STAT.]

Nov. 7, Dec. 30, 1946 CANADA-CANOL PROJECT- Mar. 5, 6, 1947

3681

Arrangement between the United States of America and Canada respecting disposal of crude oil facilities of the Canol Project. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Ottawa November 7 and December 30, 1946; entered into force December 30, 1946. And exchange of notes signed March 5 and 6, 1947.

November 7, December 30, 1946,
March 5, 6, 1947
[T. I. A. S. 1697]

The American Ambassador to the Canadian Secretary of State

for External Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE

No. 593

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Ottawa, Canada November 7, 1946

SIR :

I have the honor to refer to your note No. 83, dated August 31 , 1945, and to my note No. 366 , dated September 6 , 1945 , in regard to the crude oil pipeline from Norman Wells, Northwest Territories, to Whitehorse, Yukon Territory, and the refinery at Whitehorse, which, together with equipment pertaining thereto, have been referred to as the crude oil facilities of the Canol Project. My reply of September 6 confirmed the understanding that the United States would at a later date submit to the Canadian Government plans for the disposition of these facilities.

In accordance with the understanding referred to, there are set forth in this note proposed plans for disposal which, it is hoped , will prove acceptable to your Government. These proposals have been drawn up to give effect to the underlying principle, that, as military considerations are no longer paramount, disposal should be accomplished in a manner designed to recover the fair monetary value of facilities.

It will be recalled that in the exchange of notes of June 27-29 , 1942, the two Governments agreed that if neither the Canadian Government nor any private company desired to purchase the crude oil pipeline and refinery, the disposition of both facilities should be referred to the Permanent Joint Board on Defense for consideration and rec-

ommendation. It was further agreed in the same exchange of notes that the two Governments would not themselves order or allow the

dismantling of either the pipeline or the refinery unless and until approval for dismantlement should be recommended by the Permanent Joint Board on Defense.

In the foregoing connection I understand that it is the view of the competent military authorities of our two countries that the crude

oil facilities of the Canol Project no longer have defense value. Accordingly, it seems apparent that the above referred to provisions relating to the Permanent Joint Board are now unnecessary and should be annulled in order that the disposal authorities may have

maximum freedom of action. My Government hopes that the Canadian Government will concur in this view and will agree to the

Ante, pp. 3679, 3680. 57 Stat. 1413.

3682

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

annulment of those provisions, thereby permitting dismantlement of the facilities if that course should be desired by the United States authorities or its successors in interest. In the event that the Canadian

Government concurs in the foregoing, my Government further desires to propose the following plans to cover the disposition of the crude oil facilities of the Canol Project :

Sale.

1. It is proposed to advertise the sale of the crude oil facilities in

the press of both Canada and the United States. The following

general principles will be observed in selling and disposing of the facilities.

Transfer to private ownership.

A. (i) The United States Government may, if it so desires, transfer the crude oil facilities of the Canol Project, or any part thereof, to

private ownership , subject to the laws of Canada and the territory or territories in which such facilities are situate. Such transfer shall

be exempt from import duties and excise taxes.

(ii ) The land, rights of way, riparian rights and other easements, supplied by and owned by the Canadian Government and required for the satisfactory utilization of the facilities, may be leased or acquired by the purchaser or purchasers on equitable terms from the Canadian Government under the laws of Canada and the territory or territories concerned.

58 Stat. 1384.

(iii ) The land , rights of way, riparian rights and other easements, supplied by but not owned by the Canadian Government and required for the satisfactory utilization of the facilities, will be acquired by the Canadian Government and transferred to the purchaser or purchasers at his or their expense if such purchaser or purchasers are unable to lease or acquire such land, rights of way, riparian rights and easements on equitable terms from the owners.
(iv) Subject to the foregoing clauses ( ii ) and ( iii ) of this paragraph, the purchaser or purchasers shall enjoy the rights set forth in paragraph 3 (b) of my note of June 7, 1944, as interpreted by section 4 of the same note.

Removal from Canada .
57 Stat. 1414.

(v) The facilities, together with the land, rights of way, riparian rights and other easements leased or acquired by the new owner or owners shall be held and, if operated, shall be operated under the laws of Canada and the territory or territories in which they are situate. No owner, however, would be obligated to operate the facilities.
B. If the United States Government does not dispose of any or all of the facilities under the terms of paragraph A above, the Government, its agents, or its successors in interest may remove from Canada such of the facilities as they may elect to remove for use in the United States or elsewhere. It is understood that if the United States, its agents, or its successors in interest do elect to remove any or all of the facilities, the Canadian Government will facilitate such operations by providing for continuance of the rights referred to under paragraph 4 (b) and 4 ( d ) of the American note of June 27, 1942. It is not intended to give either A or B above precedence

61 STAT.]

CANADA-CANOL PROJECT- Nov. 7, Dec. 30, 1946 Mar. 5, 6, 1947

3683

or priority over the other since the governing factor will be the amount bid.
C. The Government of Canada may purchase from the United

Purchase by Canada.

States through the appropriate governmental agencies such of the

facilities not disposed of under A or B as that Government may desire to obtain for its own use or disposition.

D. Any of the facilities not disposed of under paragraphs A, B, and C above, after a period of two years from the date of this agreement, shall, at the option of the United States, either be removed from Canada by the United States authorities or shall be left in situ and regarded as of no value unless put to beneficial use. The principle is recognized that if any such property should thereafter be put to beneficial use the United States Government should receive fair compensation.
2. In view of certain provisions of the Surplus Property Act of 1944, it is proposed that the provisions of this note and your reply agreeing thereto constitute an arrangement between our two Governments effective at a date mutually to be agreed upon, such date to be not less than thirty days from the date of your reply. It is further proposed that the arrangement shall be effective only if neither Government has, before the date referred to in the preceding sentence, expressed a desire for any change in the lettered paragraphs A through D above.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. RAY ATHERTON
The Right Honorable The Secretary of State for External Affairs, Ottawa.

58 Stat. 765. 50 U. S. C. app.
1611-1646.

The Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANADA

No. 168 EXCELLENCY,

OTTAWA, December 30th, 1946.

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your note No. 593

of November 7 in which you make certain proposals with regard to the disposal of the Canol Project.

2. The proposals made in your note under reference have been examined by the appropriate authorities of the Canadian Government and

it gives me pleasure to inform you that those proposals are accepted. It is therefore agreed that the provisions of your note and this reply constitute an agreement between our two Governments which shall

be effective at a date mutually to be agreed upon, such date to be not before January 29th, 1947, thirty days from the date of this note. It

Ante, p. 3681.

3684

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

is further agreed that the arrangement shall be effective only if neither Government has, before the effective date of this arrangement, expressed a desire for any change in the lettered paragraphs Ante, pp. 3682-3683. A through D of your note No. 593.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
R. M. MACDONNELL
for the Secretary of State for External Affairs.
His Excellency, the United States Ambassador, United States Embassy, Ottawa.

Ante, p. 3683.

The Canadian Acting Under-Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANADA

DEAR MR. ATHERTON,

OTTAWA, December 30th, 1946.

May I refer to the exchange of notes dated November 7th and December 30th, 1946 which provides for the disposal of the Canol

crude oil facilities, and particularly to section 1D of your note No. 593.

It is the understanding of the Canadian Government that neither section 1D nor any other provision of your note under reference im-

poses on Canada any responsibility for the custody of any of the Canol facilities at any time in the future. Further, it is our understanding that the Canadian Government does not accept responsibility for the payment of fair compensation to the United States Gov-

ernment should, at any time after the two-year period , it be brought to our attention that any of the Canol facilities are being put to beneficial use by private interests.

I should be grateful if you would confirm that this is the interpretation which has been placed on this agreement by your Government.
Yours sincerely, R. M. MACDONNELL

Acting Under- Secretary of State

His Excellency the Hon. RAY ATHERTON,

for External Affairs.

United States Ambassador to Canada,

United States Embassy, Ottawa.

61 STAT. ]

Nov. 7, Dec. 30, 1946 CANADA- CANOL PROJECT- Mar. 5, 6, 1947

3685

The American Ambassador to the Canadian Acting Under-Secretary of State for External Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Ottawa, Canada, December 30, 1946.

DEAR MR. MACDONNELL :

I have received your letter of December 30, 1946 referring to the exchange of notes dated November 7 and December 30, 1946 which

provides for the disposal of the Canol crude oil facilities and particu-

larly to section 1D of my note, and setting forth the interpretation

which has been placed on this agreement by your Government.

I am pleased to inform you that my Government is in agreement with the interpretation of this agreement as set forth in your letter under reference.

Sincerely yours,

RAY ATHERTON

R. M. MACDONNELL, Esquire,

Acting Under Secretary of State

for External Affairs, Department of External Affairs, Ottawa.

Ante, p. 3683.

The American Ambassador to the Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs

No. 656 SIR :

AMERICAN EMBASSY Ottawa, March 5, 1947

I have the honor to refer to your Note No. 168 of December 30, 1946, in which you informed me that the Canadian Government was agreeable to certain proposals which had been made by the United States Government with regard to the disposition of the crude oil facilities of the Canol project, which had been transmitted to you by my Note No. 593 of November 7, 1946. In the exchange of notes in question it was provided that the agreement thus arrived at should become effective at a date mutually to be agreed upon.

I have now been instructed to inform you that the United States Government suggests March 1 , 1947 as the effective date of the agreement. If this date is agreeable to the Canadian Government, it is proposed that this note and your reply thereto in that sense shall fix March 1 , 1947 as the effective date of the agreement between the Canadian and American Governments relative to the disposal of the Canol crude oil facilities.

Ante, p. 3683.
Ante, p. 3681. Effective date.

3686

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. RAY ATHERTON
The Right Honorable The Secretary of State for External Affairs, Ottawa.

The Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANADA

No. 30 EXCELLENCY :

OTTAWA, March 6, 1947

I have the honour to refer to your Note No. 656 of March 5 and to inform you that the Canadian Government concurs in the sug-

gestion of the United States Government that March 1, 1947, be designated as the effective date of the agreement between Canada and the United States set forth in the supplementary Exchange of

Notes regarding the disposal of the crude oil facilities of the Canol Ante, pp. 3681-3685, project signed at Ottawa, November 7 and December 30, 1946.
It is agreed that your Note and this reply shall fix March 1, 1947, as the effective date of the agreement between the two Governments relative to the disposal of the Canol crude oil facilities.

Accept, Excellency, consideration.

the

renewed

assurances of my highest LB PEARSON

for Secretary of State for External Affairs,

His Excellency the Honourable RAY ATHERTON, Ambassador of the United States of America, 100 Wellington Street, Ottawa.

61 STAT. ]

ITALY-EXTRADITION--APR. 16, 17, 1946

3687

Agreement between the United States of America and Italy respecting the reciprocal application of Article I of the Extradition Convention
of March 23, 1868. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Rome April 16 and 17, 1946; entered into force April 17, 1946.

April 16, 17, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1699]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs

EXCELLENCY:

ROME, April 16, 1946.

As you know, the Extradition Convention between the United

States of America and Italy, which was signed in Washington, D. C. ,

on March 23 , 1868 , provides in the first article thereof for the extra-

dition of persons who may be convicted of, or charged with, having committed the crimes enumerated in the second article thereof.

The Convention under reference, however, does not expressly indicate whether the nationals of each of the two contracting parties are

included among such persons.

The Government of the United States of America, in conformity with American laws, has never experienced difficulty in surrendering American citizens under the terms of the aforementioned Convention .

On the other hand, you will recall that the Italian Government in the past has not surrendered its nationals upon their being requisitioned by the Government of the United States since Italian Law has not permitted the extradition of Italian nationals unless such action were expressly provided in an international convention.
So that this Extradition Convention between the United States of

America and Italy in the future may be rendered operative in the fullest sense of reciprocity, the Government of the United States would appreciate being informed whether the Italian Government would agree that the provisions of the first article of the Convention will be applied reciprocally henceforth also to persons having Italian nationality .
Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
DAVID MCK. KEY

His Excellency ALCIDES DE GASPERI ,

American Chargè d'Affaires ad Interim

Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Rome.

15 Stat. 629.

3688.
15 Stat. 629. Effective date.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

IL MINISTRO DEGLI AFFARI ESTERI

12948/66

SIGNOR INCARICATO D'AFFARI,

ROMA, li 17 aprile 1946

in risposta alla Sua nota del 16 aprile concernente l'articolo 1 ° della Convenzione di estradizione fra gli Stati Uniti d'America e l'Italia firmata a Washington il 23 marzo 1868 , ho l'onore di comunicarLe che il Governo italiano , avuto riguardo allo stato attuale della Legislazione italiana , è d'accordo che la disposizione dell'articolo 1º della detta Convenzione sia applicata, in condizioni di reciprocità, anche agli individui aventi la citta dinanza italiana .
La presente dichiarazione avrà effetto a decorrere dal 1 ° maggio 1946 .
Voglia gradire, Signor Incaricato d'Affari, i sensi della mia alta considerazione
DE GASPERI

Signor DAVID MCK. KEY

Incaricato d'Affari a.i. degli Stati Uniti d'America
Roma

Translation

THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

12948/66

ROME, April 17, 1946 MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES :
In reply to your note of April 16 , concerning Article 1 of the Extradition Convention between the United States of America and Italy, signed at Washington on March 23, 1868 , I have the honor to communicate to you that the Italian Government, having regard for the present state of Italian legislation, agrees to the provision of Article 1 of the said Convention also being applied , under conditions of reciprocity, to individuals having Italian citizenship .
The present declaration shall have effect counting from May 1 , 1946 . Please accept , Mr. Chargé d'Affaires, the expression of my highest consideration .
DE GASPERI Mr. DAVID MCK. KEY
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America, Rome

61 STAT. ] BELGIUM-RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

3689

Agreement and accompanying letters between the United States of America and, on behalf of the Belgo-Luxemburg Economic Union, the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium, rendering inoperative the Trade Agreement of February 27, 1935, and supplementing the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of October 30, 1947. Signed at Geneva October 30, 1947; effective January 1, 1948.

October 30, 1947 [ T. I. A. S. 1701 ]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND BELGIUM SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE
ACCORD ENTRE LES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE
ET LA BELGIQUE COMPLETANT L'ACCORD GENERAL SUR LES TARIFS DOUANIERS ET LE COMMERCE

3690

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE ACCORD ENTRE LES ETATS-

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND BELGIUM SUP .

UNIS D'AMERIQUE ET LA BELGIQUE COMPLETANT

PLEMENTARY TO THE L'ACCORD GENERAL SUR

GENERAL AGREEMENT ON LES TARIFS DOUANIERS ET

TARIFFS AND TRADE

LE COMMERCE

The Government of the United Le Gouvernement des Etats-

States of America and, on behalf Unis d'Amérique et le Gouverne-

of the Belgo-Luxemburg Economic ment du Royaume de Belgique,

Union, the Government of the agissant au nom de l'Union Eco-

Kingdom of Belgium,

nomique Belgo-Luxembourgeoise,

Having participated in the fram- Ayant participé à l'élaboration

61 Stat. , Pts. 5 and 6.

ing of a General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and a Protocol of Provisional Application, the texts of which have been authenti-

d'un Accord général sur les tarifs douaniers et le commerce, et d'un Protocole d'application provisoire, textes dont l'authenticité a été

cated by the Final Act adopted at établie par l'Acte Final adopté à la the conclusion of the Second Ses- fin de la Deuxième Session de la

sion of the Preparatory Committee Commission préparatoire de la of the United Nations Conference Conférence des Nations Unies sur

on Trade and Employment, signed le Commerce et l'Emploi , signé ce

this day,

jour,

Hereby agree that the Trade Conviennent par les présentes

49 Stat. 3680.

Agreement between the United que l'Accord Commercial entre States of America and the Belgo- les Etats-Unis d'Amérique et Luxemburg Economic Union , l'Union Economique Belgosigned February 27, 1935, Luxembourgeoise, signé le 27 fév-

shall be inoperative for such time rier 1935 , restera sans effet aussi as the United States of America longtemps que les Etats-Unis and Belgium are both contracting d'Amérique et la Belgique seront parties to the General Agreement tous deux parties contractantes à on Tariffs and Trade as defined l'Accord général sur les tarifs 61 Stat., Pt. 5, p. 475. in Article XXXII thereof ; Pro- douaniers et le commerce, au sens vided, that in the event that either de l'article XXXII de cet Accord. the United States of America or Il est entendu toutefois que,

Belgium should withdraw its ap- dans le cas où les Etats-Unis

plication of the General Agree- d'Amérique ou la Belgique cessement, and the said Trade Agree- raient d'appliquer l'Accord gément should thereupon again be- néral et que dès lors le dit Accord come operative , the customs treat- Commercial serait remis en viment accorded by the Belgo- gueur, le régime douanier accordé Luxemburg Economic Union to par l'Union Economique Belgoproducts of the United States of Luxembourgeoise aux produits du

61 STAT.] BELGIUM-RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

3691

America described in Schedule I sol ou de l'industrie des Etats-

of the said Trade Agreement shall Unis d'Amérique repris à l'Annexe be no less favorable than that I du dit Accord Commercial ne

provided for such products in the sera pas moins favorable que le Customs Tariff annexed to the régime prévu pour ces produits Belgo-Luxemburg-Netherlands au tarif douanier annexé à la Customs Convention concluded Convention Douaniére Belgo-

September 5, 1944, [ '] as amended Néerlando-Luxembourgeoise con-

by the Protocol signed March 14, clue le 5 septembre 1944 et modi-

1947.[¹]

fiée par le Protocole signé le 14 mars 1947 .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the repre- EN FOI DE QUOI les représentants sentatives of the Governments of des Gouvernements des Etats-

the United States of America and Unis d'Amérique et du Royaume

the Kingdom of Belgium, after de Belgique, ayant échangé leurs having exchanged their full pow- pleins pouvoirs, trouvés en bonne

ers, found to be in good and due et due forme, ont signé le présent

form , have signed this Supple- Accord additionnel. mentary Agreement.
DONE in duplicate, in the Eng- FAIT en double exemplaire, en

lish and French languages, both langue anglaise et en langue

texts authentic, at Geneva, this française, les deux textes étant thirtieth day of October, one authentiques, à Genève, le trente thousand nine hundred and forty- octobre mil neuf cent quarante

seven .

sept .

49 Stat. 3684. Authentic texts.

For the Government of the United Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-

States of America:

Unis d'Amérique:

WINTHROP G. BROWN

WINTHROP G. BROWN

For the Government of the King- Pour le Gouvernement du

dom of Belgium:

Royaume de Belgique:

P. A. FORTHOMME

P. A. FORTHOMME

1¹ [Staatsblad van het Koninkrijk Der Nederlanden, 1947. (No. H 282).]

3692

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Acting Chairman ofthe United States Delegation to the Acting Chairman of the Belgo-Luxembourg Delegation

OCTOBER 30, 1947

DEAR MR. FORTHOMME:

A point of legal detail has been brought to my attention in connec-

tion with the Agreement Supplementary to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade which we propose to sign on behalf of our two

49 Stat. 3680.

Governments on October 30 making the Reciprocal Trade Agreement of 1935 between the United States and the Belgo-Luxemburg

Economic Union inoperative so long as both the United States and

the Belgo-Luxemburg Economic Union are parties to the General

Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.

Right of termination.

As you know, the Agreement entered into between the United

States and the Belgo-Luxemburg Economic Union in 1935 provides

that it may be terminated by either party after three years on six

1489 USt.atS.. 9C4.3 . § 13511354.

months' notice. The inclusion of such a provision in all our trade agreements is required by the Trade Agreements Act . Our lawyers
have suggested that the very general terms of the proposed Supple-

mentary Agreement might possibly be interpreted as making it

impossible for either party to the 1935 Agreement to exercise this

right of termination.

It is , of course, improbable that either of our Governments would

wish to exercise this right of termination, but under our law we must, nevertheless , retain it in force . To suggest a formal amendment to the proposed Supplementary Agreement expressly excepting the termination provision of the 1935 Agreement at this late date would cause considerable inconvenience and would give greater emphasis to this point than it deserves. I am therefore writing to make it clear that we would be signing the Supplementary Agreement with the understanding that its general language would not prevent notice of termination of the 1935 Agreement given by either party while we 61 Stat. , Pts. 5 and 6. were both parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade from effecting termination of the 1935 Agreement in six months.
I would appreciate it if you could give me the assurance that your Government has the same understanding.
Sincerely yours WINTHROP G. BROWN WINTHROP G. Brown

Acting Chairman

Mr. P. A. FORTHOMME

The Delegation of Belgium-Luxemburg Palais des Nations

61 STAT.] BELGIUM- RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

3693

The Acting Chairman of the Belgo-Luxembourg Delegation to the Acting Chairman of the United States Delegation

DÉLÉGATION BELGO-LUXEMBOURGEOISE A LA COMMISSION PRÉPARATOIRE DE LA CONFÉRENCE INTERNATIONALE DU COMMERCE ET DE L'EMPLOI

ds/EM

GENEVA, October 30th, 1947.

DEAR MR. BROWN,

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated Octobre 30, 1947 , in which you wrote:

"A point of legal detail has been brought to my attention in connection with the Agreement Supplementary to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade which we propose to sign on behalf of our two Governments on October 30 making the Reciprocal Trade Agreement of 1935 between the United States and the Belgo-Luxembourg Economic Union inoperative so long as both the United States and the Belgo-Luxembourg Economic Union are parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
"As you know, the Agreement entered into between the United

49 Stat. 3680.

States and the Belgo-Luxembourg Economic Union in 1935 pro-

vides that it may be terminated by either party after three years

on six month's notice. The inclusion of such a provision in all our trade agreements is required by the Trade Agreements Act.

48 Stat. 943. 19 U. S. C. §§ 1351-

Our lawyers have suggested that the very general terms of the 1354.

proposed Supplementary Agreement might possibly be interpreted

as making it impossible for either party to the 1935 Agreement to

exercise this right of termination.

"It is, of course, improbable that either of our Governments

would wish to exercise this right of termination, but under our law we must, nevertheless, retain it in force. To suggest a formal

amendment to the proposed Supplementary Agreement expressly excepting the termination provision of the 1935 Agreement at this late date would cause considerable inconvenience and would give greater emphasis to this point than it deserves . I am therefore

writing to make it clear that we would be signing the Supplementary

Agreement with the understanding that its general language would not prevent notice of termination of the 1935 Agreement

given by either party while we were both parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade from effecting termination of the 61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6.

1935 Agreement in six months."

I can give you the assurance that my Government has the same

understanding about this matter. Sincerely yours,

MR. WINTHROP G. BROWN,

P. AF .orthomme,

The Delegation of United States Palais des Nations,

P.A. FORTHOMME Acting Chairman .

Geneva.

95347°-50- PT. IV- 23

61 STAT.]

CANADA- RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

3695

Agreement and accompanying letters between the United States of America and Canada rendering inoperative the Trade Agreement of November 17, 1938, and supplementing the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of October 30, 1947. Signed at Geneva October 30, 1947; effective January 1 , 1948.

October 30, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1702]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND CANADA SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE

3696

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND CANADA SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE

The Governments of the United States of America and Canada, Having participated in the framing of a General Agreement on 61 Stat., Pts . 5 and 6. Tariffs and Trade and a Protocol of Provisional Application, the

texts of which have been authenticated by the Final Act adopted at

the conclusion of the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment, signed this day,

53 Stat. 2348. 19 U. 8. C. § 1351
note.

Hereby agree that the Trade Agreement between the United States of America and Canada, signed November 17, 1938, with accompanying exchange of notes, shall be inoperative for such time as the United States of America and Canada are both contracting parties

to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade as defined in Article 61 Stat. , Pt. 5, p. A75. XXXII thereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the representatives of the Governments of the United States of America and Canada, after having exchanged their full powers, found to be in good and due form , have signed this Supplementary Agreement.
DONE in duplicate, at Geneva, this thirtieth day of October, one thousand nine hundred and forty-seven.

For the Government of the United States of America : WINTHROP G. BROWN

For the Government of Canada : LD WILGRESS

61 STAT.]

CANADA- RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

3697

The Acting Chairman of the United States Delegation to the Chairman of the Canadian Delegation

DEAR MR. WILGRESS :

OCTOBER 30 , 1947

A point of legal detail has been brought to my attention in connec-

tion with the Agreement Supplementary to the General Agreement

on Tariffs and Trade which we propose to sign on behalf of our two

Governments on October 30 making the Reciprocal Trade Agreement of 1939 [1 ] between the United States and Canada inoperative so

53 Stat. 2348. 19 U. S. C. § 1351

long as both the United States and Canada are parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
As you know, Article XVIII of the 1939 Agreement provides that it may be terminated by either party after three years on six months'

note. 61 Stat., Pts. 5 and 6.
Right of termination.
53 Stat. 2356.

notice. The inclusion of such a provision in all our trade agreements is required by the Trade Agreements Act. Our lawyers have sug-

48 Stat. 943. 19 U. S. C. §§ 1351-

gested that the very general terms of the proposed Supplementary 1354.

Agreement might possibly be interpreted as making it impossible for

either party to the 1939 Agreement to exercise this right of termination.

It is, of course, improbable that either of our Governments would

wish to exercise this right of termination, but under our law we must, nevertheless , retain it in force. To suggest a formal amendment to the proposed Supplementary Agreement expressly excepting Article XVIII of the 1939 Agreement at this late date would cause considerable inconvenience and would give greater emphasis to this point than it deserves. I am therefore writing to make it clear that we would be signing the Supplementary Agreement with the understanding that its general language would not prevent notice of termination of the 1939 Agreement given by either party while we were both parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade from effecting termination of the 1939 Agreement in six months.
I would appreciate it if you could give me the assurance that your Government has the same understanding.

53 Stat. 2356. 61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6.

Sincerely yours

WINTHROP G. BROWN WINTHROP G. BROWN

Hon. L. D. WILGRESS

Acting Chairman

The Delegation of Canada Palais des Nations
1 ¹ [This agreement was signed Nov. 17, 1938, and entered into force provisionally Nov. 26, 1938, for article IX and after Jan. 1, 1939, for articles I, VI, and VII, and definitively June 17, 1939. ]

3698

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Chairman of the Canadian Delegation to the Acting Chairman of the United States Delegation

CANADIAN DELEGATION TO THE
SECOND SESSION OF THE PREPARATORY COMMITTEE OF THE
UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON
TRADE AND EMPLOYMENT

DÉLÉGATION DU CANADA
À LA DEUXIÈME SESSION DE LA COMMISSION PRÉPARATOIRE DE LA CONFÉRENCE DES NATIONS UNIES
DU COMMERCE ET DE L'EMPLOI

DEAR MR. BROWN,

GENEVA, October 30, 1947.

53 Stat. 2348. 19 U. S. C. § 1351 note.
61 Stat., Pts . 5 and 6.

I have received your letter of October 30th with regard to the Agreement Supplementary to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade which we propose to sign on behalf of our two Governments.
I note that your purpose in writing to me is to make it clear that you would be signing the Supplementary Agreement with the understanding that its general language would not prevent notice of termination of the 1938 Trade Agreement given by either party while we were both parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade from effecting termination of the 1938 Agreement in six months.

I wish to give you the assurance that my Government has the same

understanding of the position as that set forth in your letter. Yours sincerely,

L.D.Wilgress , Chairman , Canadian Delegation .
WINTHROP G. BROWN, Esq., Acting Chairman, United States Delegation.

61 STAT. ]

CUBA- RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

3699

Exclusive agreement between the United States of America and Cuba respecting reciprocal trade, supplementing the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of October 30, 1947. Signed at Geneva October 30, 1947; effective January 1 , 1948. And supplementary arrangements .

October 30, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1703]

EXCLUSIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND THE REPUBLIC OF CUBA SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE
CONVENIO EXCLUSIVO ENTRE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA
Y LA REPUBLICA DE CUBA SUPLEMENTARIO AL ACUERDO GENERAL SOBRE ARANCELES Y COMERCIO

3700

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

EXCLUSIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF CUBA SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE

The Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Cuba,

61 Stat., Pts . 5 and 6.

Having participated in the framing of a General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, hereinafter referred to as the General Agreement, and a Protocol of Provisional Application, the texts of which have

been authenticated by the Final Act adopted at the conclusion of the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations

Conference on Trade and Employment, signed this day, Hereby agree as follows:

33 Stat. 2136. 49 Stat. 3559.

1. The Convention of Commercial Reciprocity between the United States of America and the Republic of Cuba signed December 11 , 1902 , and the Reciprocal Trade Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of Cuba signed August 24 , 1934,

54 Stat. 1997.

with its accompanying exchange of notes, as amended by the supplementary trade agreement signed December 18 , 1939 , with its

55 Stat. 1449.

accompanying protocol and exchange of notes, and by the supplementary trade agreement signed December 23, 1941 , with its

accompanying exchange of notes, shall be inoperative for such time

as the United States of America and the Republic of Cuba are both

contracting parties to the General Agreement as defined in Article 61 Stat., Pt. 5, p . 75. XXXII thereof.

2. For such time as the United States of America and the Republic of Cuba are both contracting parties to the General Agreement , the products of either country imported into the other shall be accorded customs treatment as follows:

(a) The provisions of Part II of Schedule IX of the General p.6A158S0.tat ., Pt . 5 , Agreement shall apply exclusively to products of the United States of
America, and the provisions of Part II of Schedule XX of the General
p.6A1135S0t.at . , Pt . 5 , Agreement shall apply exclusively to products of the Republic of Cuba.

(b) Products of the United States of America described in P.6A1545S.tat . , Pt . 5 , Part I, but not in Part II, of Schedule IX of the General Agreement,
imported into the Republic of Cuba, and products of the Republic of Cuba described in Part I, but not in Part II, of Schedule XX of p.6A1l15S7t. at. , Pt . 5, the General Agreement, imported into the United States of America, shall be subject to the customs treatment provided for in Part I of the applicable Schedule.

61 STAT.]

CUBA- RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

3701

CONVENIO EXCLUSIVO ENTRE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA Y LA REPUBLICA DE CUBA SUPLEMENTARIO AL ACUERDO GENERAL SOBRE ARANCELES Y COMERCIO
Los Gobiernos de los Estados Unidos de América y de la República de Cuba ,
Habiendo participado en la confección de un Acuerdo General sobre Aranceles y Comercio, al que en lo adelante se hará referencia aquí como el Acuerdo General, y el Protocolo de Aplicación Provisional, cuyos textos han sido autenticados por el Acta Final adoptada a la terminación de la Segunda Sesión del Comité Preparatorio de la Conferencia de las Naciones Unidas sobre Comercio y Empleo, firmado en este día,
Por la presente convienen lo que sigue:
1. El Tratado de Reciprocidad Comercial entre los Estados Unidos de América y la República de Cuba firmado el 11 de diciembre de 1902 , y el Convenio Comercial de Reciprocidad entre los Estados Unidos de América y la República de Cuba firmado el 24 de agosto de 1934 , con su cambio de notas acompañante, según fué modificado por el convenio comercial suplementario firmado el 18 de diciembre de 1939 , con el protocolo y cambio de notas que lo acompañan , y por el convenio comercial suplementario firmado el 23 de diciembre de 1941 , con el cambio de notas que lo acompaña , dejarán de surtir efectos mientras los Estados Unidos de América y la República de Cuba sean ambos partes contratantes del Acuerdo General según se define en el Artículo XXXII del mismo .
2. Mientras los Estados Unidos de América y la República de Cuba sean ambos partes contratantes del Acuerdo General, a los productos de cada país que se importen en el otro se les dará el tratamiento aduanal siguiente:
(a) Las disposiciones de la Parte II de la Lista IX del Acuerdo General se aplicarán exclusivamente a los productos de los Estados Unidos de América, y las disposiciones de la Parte II de la Lista XX del Acuerdo General se aplicarán exclusivamente a los productos de la República de Cuba.
(b) Los productos de los Estados Unidos de América descritos en la Parte I , pero no en la Parte II , de la Lista IX del Acuerdo General, que se importen en la República de Cuba , y los productos de la República de Cuba descritos en la Parte I , pero no en la Parte II , de la Lista XX del Acuerdo General, que se importen en los Estados Unidos de América, estarán sujetos al tratamiento aduanal previsto en la Parte I de la Lista aplicable.

3702

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

(c) Subject to the principles set forth in Article 17 of the Draft

Charter for an International Trade Organization [ ' ] recommended by

the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on

Trade and Employment-

Products of U. S. entitled to margin of

(i) any product of the United States of America not described

preference.

in either Part of Schedule IX of the General Agreement which would

have been subject to ordinary customs duty if imported into the

Republic of Cuba on April 10, 1947, any temporary or conditional exemption from duty to be disregarded , and which is of a kind which

the Government of Cuba shall determine to have been imported into

its territory as a product of the United States of America in any quan-

tity during any of the calendar years 1937 , 1939 , 1944 , and 1945 , shall be entitled upon importation into the Republic of Cuba to a margin of preference in the applicable rate of duty equal to the absolute difference between the most-favored-nation rate for the like

product existing on April 10 , 1947, including any such rate temporarily

suspended, and the preferential rate likewise existing on that date in

Products of Cuba
entitled to margin of
preference. 61 Stat . , Pt . 5 ,
p. A1157.

respect of such product of the United States of America ; and (ii) any product of the Republic of Cuba not described in
either Part of Schedule XX of the General Agreement, which would have been subject to ordinary customs duty if imported into the

United States of America on April 10, 1947, any temporary or condi-

tional exemption from duty to be disregarded , and which is of a kind which the Government of the United States of America shall deter-

mine to have been imported into its territory as a product of Cuba in any quantity during any of the calendar years 1937 , 1939 , 1944 , and

1945, shall be entitled upon importation into the United States of America to a margin of preference in the applicable rate of duty equal to the absolute difference between the most-favored-nation rate for

the like product existing on April 10, 1947 , including any such rate temporarily suspended , and the preferential rate likewise existing on that date in respect of such product of the Republic of Cuba.

(d) Any product of the United States of America or of the

Republic of Cuba for which customs treatment is not prescribed above shall be dutiable, when imported into the other country, at the mostfavored-nation rate of duty of the importing country for the like product.

(e) Nothing in this Agreement shall require the application to any product of the Republic of Cuba imported into the United States

of America of a rate of ordinary customs duty higher than one and one-half times the rate existing in respect of such product on January

1 , 1945 , any temporary or conditional exemption from duty to be disregarded .

"Most -favored - nation rate."'

3. The term "most-favored-nation rate" in this Exclusive Supple-

mentary Agreement means the maximum rate which may be, or could

have been, applied consistently with the principles set forth in Article 61 Stat. , Pt . 5, p. A12. I of the General Agreement to a product of a country which is a

contracting party to that Agreement.

¹ [Department of State publication 2927, p. 17.]

61 STAT. ]

CUBA- RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

(c) Con sujeción a los principios contenidos en el Artículo 17 del Proyecto de Carta para una Organización Internacional de Comercio recomendado por el Comité Preparatorio de la Conferencia de las Naciones Unidas sobre Comercio y Empleo-
(i) cualquier producto de los Estados Unidos de América que no se halle descrito en una u otra Parte de la Lista IX del Acuerdo General, que hubiese estado sujeto a derecho aduanal ordinario si se hubiese importado en la República de Cuba el 10 de abril de 1947 , sin tener en cuenta cualquier exención de derechos temporal o condicional, y que sea de una clase que el Gobierno de Cuba determine que se haya importado en su territorio como producto de los Estados Unidos en cualquier cantidad durante cualquiera de los años naturales de 1937 , 1939 , 1944 y 1945 , tendrá derecho , a su importación en la República de Cuba, a un márgen de preferencia en el tipo de derecho aplicable igual a la diferencia absoluta entre el tipo de la nación más favorecida existente el 10 de abril de 1947 para el producto análogo,
incluyendo cualquiera de dichos tipos suspendidos temporalmente, y el tipo preferencial asimismo existente en esa fecha respecto de dicho producto de los Estados Unidos de América ; y
(ii) cualquier producto de la República de Cuba que no se halle descrito en una u otra Parte de la Lista XX del Acuerdo General, que hubiese estado sujeto a derecho aduanal ordinario si se hubiese importado en los Estados Unidos de América el 10 de abril de 1947 , sin tener en cuenta cualquier exención de derechos temporal o condicional, y que sea de una clase que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América determine que se haya importado en su territorio como producto de Cuba en cualquier cantidad durante cualquiera de los años naturales de 1937 , 1939 , 1944 y 1945 , tendrá derecho , a su importación en los Estados Unidos de América, a un márgen de preferencia en el tipo de derecho aplicable igual a la diferencia absoluta entre el tipo de la nación más favorecida existente el 10 de abril de 1947 para el producto análogo , incluyendo cualquiera de dichos tipos suspendidos temporalmente , y el tipo preferencial asimismo existente en esa fecha respecto de dicho producto de la República de Cuba .
(d ) Cualquier producto de los Estados Unidos de América o de la República de Cuba para el cual no se haya prescrito en lo que antecede un tratamiento aduanal, adeudará, a su importación en el otro país, al tipo de derechos de la nación más favorecida del país importador para el producto análogo .
(e) Nada de lo que en este Convenio se establece requerirá el que se aplique a cualquier producto de la República de Cuba que se importe en los Estados Unidos de América un tipo de derecho aduanal ordinario mayor que una y media vez el tipo existente el primero de enero de 1945 con respecto a tal producto , sin tener en cuenta cualquier exención de derechos temporal o condicional.
3. La expresión "tipo de derecho de la nación más favorecida" usada en este Convenio Exclusivo Suplementario significa el tipo máximo de derecho que puede ser o pueda haber sido aplicado en forma concordante con el Artículo I del Acuerdo General a un producto de un país que sea parte contratante de dicho Acuerdo.

3703

3704 Authentic texts.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the repre- EN FE DE LO CUAL los repre-

sentatives of the Governments of sentantes de los Gobiernos de los

the United States of America and Estados Unidos de América y de the Republic of Cuba, after having la República de Cuba, después de

exchanged their full powers , found haber intercambiado sus plenos

to be in good and due form , have poderes, hallados en buena y de-

signed this Exclusive Supplemen- bida forma, han firmado este Con-

tary Agreement .

venio Exclusivo Suplementario.

DONE in duplicate, in the Eng- HECHO en duplicado, en los

lish and Spanish languages, both idiomas inglés y español, siendo texts authentic, at Geneva, this ambos textos auténticos , en Gine-

thirtieth day of October, one bra, a los trienta días del mes de

thousand nine hundred and forty- octubre de mil novecientos cua-

seven .

renta y siete .

For the Government of the United Por el Gobierno de los Estados

States of America:

Unidos de América:

WINTHROP G. BROWN

WINTHROP G. BROWN

For the Government of the Re- Por el Gobierno de la República

public of Cuba:

de Cuba:

S. I. CLARK

S. I. CLARK

61 STAT.]

CUBA- RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

3705

The Acting Chairman ofthe United States Delegation to the Chairman of the Cuban Delegation GENEVA, October 30, 1947
DEAR MR. CLARK :

A point of legal detail has been brought to my attention in connec-

tion with the Exclusive Agreement Supplementary to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade which we are signing today on behalf

of our two Governments making inoperative, so long as both the

United States and Cuba are parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the Convention of Commercial Reciprocity between

the Republic of Cuba and the United States of America signed December 11 , 1902 , and the Reciprocal Trade Agreement between the Republic of Cuba and the United States of America signed August 24, 1934,

33 Stat. 2136. 49 Stat. 3559.

with its accompanying exchange of notes, as amended by the supplementary trade agreement signed December 18, 1939, with its accom-

54 Stat. 1997.

panying protocol and exchange of notes, and by the supplementary trade agreement signed December 23 , 1941 , with its accompanying

55 Stat. 1449.

exchange of notes. As you know, Article XI of the Convention of Commercial Reci-
procity of 1902 provides that it may be terminated by either party on one year's notice, and Article XVII of the 1934 Trade Agreement, as

Right of termination.
33 Stat. 2142.
49 Stat. 3568.

amended, provides that it may be terminated by either party on six

months' notice . With respect to the latter, the inclusion of such a

provision in all our trade agreements is required by the Trade Agreements Act. Our lawyers have suggested that the very general terms of the Exclusive Supplementary Agreement might possibly be inter-

48 Stat. 943. 19 U. S. C. §§ 1351-
1354.

preted as making it impossible for either party to the 1902 Conven-

tion and to the 1934 Trade Agreement to exercise this right of termination .

It is, of course, improbable that either of our Governments would

wish to exercise this right of termination, but under our law we must,

nevertheless, retain it in force . To suggest, at this late date, a formal amendment to the Exclusive Supplementary Agreement expressly

excepting the respective termination provisions would cause consider-

able inconvenience and would give greater emphasis to this point than

it deserves. I am therefore writing to make it clear that we are sign-

ing the Exclusive Supplementary Agreement with the understanding

that its general language would not prevent notice of termination of the 1902 Convention and of the 1934 Trade Agreement, given by either party while we were both parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, from effecting termination of the 1902 Convention and of the 1934 Trade Agreement in one year and six months , respec-

33 Stat. 2136. 49 Stat. 3559.
61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6.

tively.

3706

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
I would appreciate it if you could give me the assurance that your Government has the same understanding.
Sincerely yours, WINTHROP G. BROWN WINTHROP G. BROWN '
Acting Chairman Delegation ofthe United States of America His Excellency Sr. SERGIO I. CLARK, Chairman, Delegation of the Republic of Cuba Second Session of the Preparatory Committee for the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment

The Chairman of the Cuban Delegation to the Acting Chairman of the United States Delegation

DELEGACION DE CUBA

GINEBRA, 30 de Octubre de 1947.

ESTIMADO SR. BROWN :

Tengo el honor de referirme a su atenta carta de esta misma fecha,

por la cual me comunica que se ha llamado la atención de usted

respecto a un detalle de orden legal a propósito del Convenio Exclusivo Suplementario del Acuerdo General sobre Aranceles y Comercio

que firmamos en el día de hoy en representación de nuestros respectivos Gobiernos.

He tomado buena nota del contenido de su carta de referencia y en

contestación me complace significarle que estoy enteramente de acuerdo con sus manifestaciones, o sea, que firmamos el Convenio

Exclusivo Suplementario en el entendido de que los términos generales en que se halla redactado no impedirían a cualquiera de las partes , mientras sean partes del Acuerdo General sobre Aranceles y Comercio , notificar al otro su intención de terminar el Tratado de 1902 y el Convenio Comercial de 1934 , observando los plazos de preaviso para

el caso de denuncia de un año y seis meses previstos, respectivamente, en los mismos.
De usted muy atentamente, SI. CLARK

SERGIO I. CLARK Presidente,

Sr. WINTHROP G. BROWN,

Delegacion de Cuba.

Presidente interino , Delegacion de los Estados Unidos de America Palais-des-Nations.

61 STAT.]

CUBA- RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

3707

DELEGATION OF CUBA

Translation

My DEAR MR. BROWN :

GENEVA, October 30, 1947.

I have the honor to refer to your courteous letter of today's date, informing me that your attention has been called to a legal detail in connection with the Exclusive Agreement Supplementary to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade which we are signing today as representatives of our respective governments .
I have noted carefully the contents of your letter and, in reply, I

am pleased to inform you that I am entirely in agreement with your

statements, that is, that we are signing the Exclusive Supplementary

Agreement on the understanding that the general language in which

it is worded would not prevent either of the parties, while they are

parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, from notify-

ing the other of its intention to terminate the Treaty of 1902 and the

Trade Agreement of 1934 , by observing the one-year and six-months

notice, respectively, prescribed therein in the case of denunciation.

Very truly yours,

S I. CLARK

SERGIO I. CLARK

Chairman,

Mr. WINTHROP G. BROWN,

Delegation of Cuba.

Acting Chairman,

Delegation ofthe United States of America Palais-des-Nations.

61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6.
33 Stat. 2136. 49 Stat. 3559.

The Acting Chairman of the United States Delegation to the Chairman

of the Cuban Delegation

GENEVA , October 30, 1947

MR. CHAIRMAN : Reference is made to the conversations which have taken place
between our Delegations during the Second Session of the Preparatory

Exportation ofpineapple slips from Cuba.

Committee for the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employ-

ment , regarding the exportation of pineapple slips from the Republic of Cuba to the United States of America.

In accordance with instructions received from my Government, I

desire to confirm the understanding reached between our Delegations

during the course of the tariff negotiations, to the effect that the Government of the Republic of Cuba will continue to permit the exportation of pineapple slips to the United States of America, and

in particular to the Territory of Puerto Rico , subject to such regula-

tions as the Cuban Ministry of Agriculture may establish ; and will

facilitate the acquisition and exportation of pineapple slips of good

quality.

3708

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Please accept, Mr. Chairman, the assurances of my high consideration .
W. G. BROWN WINTHROP G. BROWN Acting Chairman Delegation of the United States of America
His Excellency Sr. SERGIO I. CLARK, Chairman, Delegation of the Republic of Cuba Second Session of the Preparatory Committee for the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment

The Chairman of the Cuban Delegation to the Acting Chairman of the United States Delegation
DELEGACION DE CUBA
SEGUNDA SESION DEL COMITE PREPARATORIO DE LA CONFERENCIA DE LAS NACIONES UNIDAS SOBRE COMERCIO Y EMPLEO

SENOR PRESIDENTE :

GINEBRA, 30 de Octubre de 1947.

Tengo el honor de referirme a las conversaciones que han tenido lugar entre nuestras Delegaciones durante la Segunda Sesion del

Comite Preparatorio de la Conferencia de las Naciones Unidas sobre

Comercio y Empleo , a proposito de la exportacion de hijos de pina de la Republica de Cuba a los Estados Unidos de America.
De acuerdo con instrucciones recibidas de mi Gobierno , deseo confirmarle el entendimiento alcanzado entre nuestras Delegaciones

en el curso de las negociaciones arancelarias, al efecto de que el Gobierno de la Republica de Cuba continuara permitiendo la expor-

tacion de hijos de pina para los Estados Unidos de America, y en

particular al territorio de Puerto Rico , sujeta a los reglamentos que el Ministerio de Agricultura pueda dictar, y facilitara la adquisicion y exportacion de hijos de pina de buena calidad .

Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterarle, senor Presidente, las seguridades de mi alta consideracion.
S I. CLARK SERGIO I. CLARK,

Presidente, Delegacion de Cuba. A su Excelencia el senor WINTHROP G. BROWN, Presidente interino , Delegacion de los Estados Unidos de America a la Segunda Sesion del Comite Preparatorio de la Conferencia de las Naciones Unidas sobre Comercio y Empleo.

61 STAT.]

CUBA- RECIPROCAL TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

Translation

DELEGATION OF CUBA

SECOND SESSION OF THE PREPARATORY COMMITTEE OF THE UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON TRADE AND EMPLOYMENT

Mr. CHAIRMAN :

GENEVA, October 30, 1947.

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which took place

between our Delegations during the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employ-

ment with regard to the exportation of pineapple slips from the Republic of Cuba to the United States of America.
In accordance with instructions received from my Government , I

wish to confirm the understanding reached between our Delegations during the tariff negotiations, to the effect that the Government of the Republic of Cuba will continue to permit the exportation of pineapple slips to the United States of America, and particularly to the territory of Puerto Rico , subject to such regulations as the Ministry of Agriculture may issue, and will facilitate the acquisition and exportation of pineapple slips of good quality.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you, Mr. Chairman, the assurances of my high consideration .
S I. CLARK SERGIO I. CLARK,
Chairman,

Delegation of Cuba. His Excellency
WINTHROP G. BROWN, Acting Chairman, Delegation of the United States

of America to the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment.

3709

DELEGACION DE CUBA SECOND SESSION OF THE PREPARATORY COMMITTEE OF THE UNITED NATIONS
CONFERENCE ON TRADE AND EMPLOYMENT.
MEMORANDUM

Re : Palm Beach Cloth

The Cuban Delegation to the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment takes pleasure in addressing the Delegation of the United States of America to the said Conference, in connection with the exclusion of Sub-item 147-E of the Cuban Customs Tariff, comprising "fabrics of the hair or fleece of the angora goat (mohair) mixed with cotton, rayon or both, in the piece or not made up", from the products which are to appear in Schedule IX of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
As expressed on several occasions during the course of the negotiations by the Cuban Negotiating Team and as is well known to the
95347°-50- PT. IV---- 24

61 Stat . , Pt . 5, ..

3710

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

United States Negotiating Team, the Cuban Government had noticed

the grave practical problems arising from the difficulty or impossibility of duly distinguishing these fabrics from other wool fabrics, especially when mixed with other substances, vegetable or synthetic fibers . For this reason , the Cuban Government intends to make a careful and thorough analysis of this situation, with a view toward its final solution .

In order to facilitate and speed these negotiations and bring them to a happy conclusion , the Cuban Delegation is pleased to state that the Cuban Government does not contemplate increasing the present

rate of duty on palm beach cloth, exclusively , and undertakes to exempt

such product from the twenty percent surcharge established by Law

No. 28 , of September 8 , 1941 .

SIC

GENEVA, October 28, 1947.

DELEGACION DE CUBA

MEMORANDUM

La Delegacion de Cuba a la Segunda Sesion del Comite Preparatorio de la Conferencia de las Naciones Unidas sobre Comercio y Empleo se complace en dirigirse a la Delegacion de los Estados Unidos de America a proposito de la exportacion de aguacates de Cuba a los Estados Unidos de America y le participa que, de acuerdo con lo convenido en el curso de las negociaciones arancelarias llevadas a cabo por los teams negociadores de ambos paises , el Gobierno de Cuba continuara aplicando el regimen de exportacion establecido en el parrafo 10 de la Disposicion Quinta del Arancel de Aduanas de la Republica de Cuba.

GINEBRA, 30 de Octubre de 1947.

S. I. C.

DELEGATION OF CUBA

Translation

MEMORANDUM

Exportation of avocados from Cuba.

The Delegation of Cuba to the Second Session of the Preparatory

Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Em-

ployment is pleased to address the Delegation of the United States

of America with reference to the exportation of avocados from Cuba

to the United States of America, and to inform the Delegation that

in accordance with the agreement reached during the tariff negotia-

tions carried on by the negotiating teams of both countries, the Government of Cuba will continue to apply the export system set

forth in paragraph 10 of Provision 5 of the Customs Tariff of the Republic of Cuba.

GENEVA, October 30, 1947.

S. I. C.

61 STAT.]

CUBA- RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

DELEGACION DE CUBA

MEMORANDUM

3711

A proposito del cambio introducido en el aforo de los productos comprendidos en las Partidas 113-A y 129-F y H del Arancel de Aduanas de Cuba, con respecto al regimen de la tara , en virtud de las negociaciones conducidas en esta ciudad entre los grupos negociadores de Cuba y los Estados Unidos de America, la Delegacion de Cuba se complace en consignar que ha llegado al entendimiento de que si en virtud de dicho cambio sobreviene una dificultad extraordinaria y se llega a comprobar en la practica que el descuento de un 15 % acordado, por concepto de tara, resulta inadecuado , el Gobierno de la Republica de Cuba vera con simpatia cualquier representacion que en este sentido le haga el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de America a fin de realizar un ajuste en el tipo de tara senalado, para cubrir cualquier diferencia que resulte en la practica.
Debe quedar bien entendido , sin embargo, que en ningun caso el ajuste que eventualmente pudiera hacerse en las circunstancias antes indicadas, podra exceder en un 5 % adicional al 15 % aqui ahora convenido , o sea, que la deduccion por concepto de tara para las Partidas 113-A y 129 , en sus letras F, y H. no excedera de un 20%.

GINEBRA, 30 de Octubre de 1947.

S. I. C.

Translation

DELEGATION OF CUBA

MEMORANDUM

With reference to the change introduced in the appraisal of products covered by Parts 113-A and 129-F and H of the Customs Tariff of Cuba, as regards the tare system , the Delegation of Cuba, in consequence of the negotiations conducted in this city between the negotiating groups of Cuba and the United States of America , is pleased to state that it has reached an agreement that if unusual difficulty should, occur as a result of this change and it is found that in practice the 15 % deduction allowed for tare is inadequate, the Government of the Republic of Cuba will view sympathetically any representation made to it in this sense by the Government of the United States of America for the purpose of effecting an adjustment in the rate of tare fixed, to cover any difference which may result in practice.
Nevertheless , it must be thoroughly understood that in no case shall any adjustment which may be made under the circumstances indicated above exceed 5 % in addition to the 15% hereby agreed to,
that is, that the deduction for tare in Parts 113-A and 129-F and H shall not exceed 20%.

Adjustment in rate

GENEVA, October 30, 1947.

S. I. C.

3712

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Cuban Ambassador

EXCELLENCY :

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON December 19, 1947

I have the honor to refer to the declaration made by the Member of the Permanent Delegation of Cuba to the United Nations when signing the Protocol of Provisional Application of the General Agreep.641205S1t.at . , Pt . 6 , ment on Tariffs and Trade on December 17 , 1947 , which declaration reads as follows :

"In signing this Protocol the Republic of Cuba declares its intention to make effective the provisional application of the General Agreement as from January 1 , 1948 with regard to any signatory Government which will make effective such provisional application with regard to Cuba as from that date."

Ante, p. 3699.

I am pleased to inform you that the Government of the United States, on behalf of which the Protocol of Provisional Application was signed on October 30, 1947 and which will make effective the provisional application of the General Agreement as from January 1 , 1948 with respect to certain other Governments which have already signed the Protocol, is prepared as from that date to make provisionally effective the tariff concessions of principal interest to the Republic of Cuba, and generally to apply the provisions of the Exclusive Agreement Supplementary to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which was signed with the Republic of Cuba on October 30 , 1947 .

I should appreciate your confirmation that the Government of the Republic of Cuba will give similar effect to Schedule IX as from January 1 , 1948 .

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
ROBERT A. LOVETT

His Excellency Señor GUILLERMO BELT, Ambassador of Cuba.

Acting Secretary of State

The Cuban Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

EMBAJADA DE CUBA WASHINGTON, D. C.

22 DE DICIEMBRE DE 1947.

SEÑOR SECRETARIO : Tengo el honor de referirme a la nota que Vuestra Excelencia me
dirigió el día 19 de diciembre en curso , en la que me expresa que, con vista de las declaraciones que hizo el Gobierno de mi país al firmar el Protocolo de Aplicación Provisional del Acuerdo General sobre Aranceles y Comercio , el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América se

61 STAT.]

CUBA- RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

3713

encuentra dispuesto a poner en vigor, desde el día 1º de enero de 1948 , las concesiones arancelarias que hizo en dicho Acuerdo General, que sean de primordial interés para Cuba, y a aplicar, en general , las cláusulas del Convenio Exclusivo entre la República de Cuba y los Estados Unidos de América suplementario al Acuerdo General sobre Aranceles y Comercio, firmado en Ginebra el día 30 de octubre de 1947. Asimismo , me pide Vuestra Excelencia le confirme si , en tales circunstancias, mi Gobierno estaría dispuesto a poner en vigor, a partir del día 1º de enero de 1948 , las concesiones arancelarias negociadas con los Estados Unidos de América, que aparecen en el citado Acuerdo General .
Teniendo en cuenta los términos de la nota de Vuestra Excelencia, puedo asegurarle que el Gobierno de mi país pondrá en vigor, desde el día 1º de enero de 1948 , las concesiones arancelarias que hizo en el Acuerdo General, que sean de primordial interés para los Estados Unidos de América, y que aplicará, en general, las cláusulas del Convenio Exclusivo a que se refiere la nota de Vuestra Excelencia, todo con carácter provisional, sujeto a la aprobación por el Senado de la República del Acuerdo General , del Convenio Exclusivo y de toda otra negociación relativa a los mismos .
Aprovecho esta oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia el testimonio de mi más alta y distinguida consideración,
GMO BELT
Al Excelentísimo Señor ROBERT A. LOVETT, Secretario Interino de Estado , Washington, D.C.

Translation

EMBASSY OF CUBA WASHINGTON, D. O.
MR. SECRETARY :

DECEMBER 22, 1947.

I have the honor to refer to the note which Your Excellency addressed to me on December 19 , stating that, in view of the declarations

made by my country's Government on signing the Protocol of Pro-

visional Application of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade,

61 Stat . , Pt . 6 , p. A2051.

the Government of the United States of America is disposed to put

into effect, on and after January 1 , 1948 , such tariff concessions

made by it in the General Agreement as are of paramount interest

to Cuba, and generally to apply the clauses of the Exclusive Agreement between the Republic of Cuba and the United States of America supplementing the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade signed at Geneva on October 30, 1947. Your Excellency also requests me to

Ante, p. 3699.

confirm whether, in such circumstances, my Government would be disposed to put into effect, on and after January 1 , 1948 , the tariff concessions negotiated with the United States of America, which appear in the aforesaid General Agreement.
Bearing in mind the terms of Your Excellency's note, I can assure you that my country's Government will put into effect, from January 1 , 1948, the tariff concessions made by it in the General Agreement,

3714

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
which are of paramount interest to the United States of America, and that it will generally apply the clauses of the Exclusive Agreement referred to in Your Excellency's note, on an entirely provisional basis , subject to approval of the General Agreement, the Exclusive Agreement, and any other negotiation relating thereto, by the Senate of the Republic .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurance of my highest and most distinguished consideration,
GMO BELT
His Excellency Robert A. LOVETT, Acting Secretary of State, Washington, D.C.

61 STAT. ]

FRANCE-RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

3715

Agreement and accompanying letters between the United States of America and France rendering inoperative the Trade Agreement of May 6, 1936, and supplementing the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of October 30, 1947. Signed at Geneva October 30, 1947; effective January 1 , 1948.

October 30, 1947 [T. I. A. 8. 1704]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND THE FRENCH REPUBLIC SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE
ACCORD ENTRE LES ETATS -UNIS D'AMERIQUE
ET LA REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE COMPLETANT L'ACCORD GENERAL SUR LES TARIFS DOUANIERS ET LE COMMERCE

3716

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE ACCORD ENTRE LES ETATS-

UNITED STATES OF AMER- UNIS D'AMERIQUE ET LA

ICA AND THE FRENCH RE- REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE

PUBLIC SUPPLEMENTARY COMPLETANT L'ACCORD

TO THE GENERAL AGREE- GENERAL SUR LES TARIFS

MENT ON TARIFFS AND DOUANIERS ET LE COM-

TRADE

MERCE

The Governments of the United Les Gouvernements des Etats-

States of America and the French Unis d'Amérique et de la Ré

Republic ,

publique française ,

Having participated in the fram- ayant pris part à l'élaboration

ing of a General Agreement on de l'Accord Général sur les Tarifs Tariffs and Trade and a Protocol douaniers et le Commerce et du

61 Stat. , Pts . 5 and 6. of Provisional Application, the Protocole d'application provisoire, texts of which have been authen- textes dont l'authenticité a été

ticated by the Final Act adopted établie par l'Acte final adopté à la at the conclusion of the Second fin de la Deuxième Session de la

Session of the Preparatory Com- Commission Préparatoire de la mittee of the United Nations Conférence des Nations Unies sur

53 Stat. 2236.

Conference on Trade and Employ- le Commerce et l'Emploi, signé

ment, signed this day,

ce jour,

Hereby agree that the Trade conviennent par les présentes

Agreement and Protocol of Signa- que l'application de l'Accord com-

ture between the United States of mercial et du Protocole de signa-

America and the French Republic , ture entre les Etats-Unis d' Améri-

signed May 6, 1936 , and related que et la République française,

notes, shall be inoperative for such signés le 6 mai 1936 , ainsi que des time as the United States of notes y relatives, sera suspendue

America and the French Republic pour la période où les Etats-Unis

are both contracting parties to d'Amérique et la République fran-

the General Agreement on Tariffs çaise seront tous deux parties

and Trade as defined in Article contractantes à l'Accord Général

61 Stat. , Pt. 5, p. 475. XXXII thereof.

sur les Tarifs douaniers et le

Commerce au sens de l'Article

XXXII dudit Accord .

61 STAT. ]

FRANCE-RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

3717

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the repre- EN FOI DE QUOI les représentants sentatives of the Governments of des Gouvernements des Etatsthe United States of America and Unis d'Amérique et de la Répubthe French Republic , after having lique française, ayant échangé exchanged their full powers, found leurs pleins pouvoirs , trouvés en to be in good and due form , have bonne et due forme, ont signé le signed this Supplementary Agree- présent Accord complémentaire. ment.
DONE in duplicate , in the FAIT à Genève, en double exem-
English and French languages , plaire, en langues anglaise et both texts authentic, at Geneva, française, les deux textes faisant this thirtieth day of October, one également foi, le trente octobre thousand nine hundred and forty- mil neuf cent quarante sept. seven .

Authentic texts.

For the Government of the United Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-

States of America:

Unis d'Amérique :

WINTHROP G. BROWN

WINTHROP G. BROWN

For the Government of the French Pour le Gouvernement de la

Republic :

République française :

PIERRE BARADUC

PIERRE BARADUC .

3718

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Acting Chairman of the United States Delegation to a Member of the French Delegation

OCTOBER 30 , 1947

DEAR MR. BARADUC:

A point of legal detail has been brought to my attention in connection with the Agreement Supplementary to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade which we propose to sign on behalf of our two

53 Stat. 2236.

Governments on October 30 making the Reciprocal Trade Agreement of 1936 between the United States and France inoperative so long as

both the United States and France are parties to the General Agree61 Stat., Pts . 5 and 6. ment on Tariffs and Trade.

Right of termination.

As you know, Article XVII of the 1936 Agreement provides that it

53 Stat. 2256.

may be terminated by either party after three years on six months'

48 Stat. 943.
19 U. S. C. §§ 13511354 .

notice. The inclusion of such a provision in all our trade agreements is required by the Trade Agreements Act. Our lawyers have suggested that the very general terms of the proposed Supplementary

Agreement might possibly be interpreted as making it impossible for either party to the 1936 Agreement to exercise this right of termination .

It is, of course, improbable that either of our Governments would

wish to exercise this right of termination, but under our law we must,

53 Stat. 2256.

nevertheless, retain it in force . To suggest a formal amendment to the proposed Supplementary Agreement expressly excepting Article XVII of the 1936 Agreement at this late date would cause consider-

able inconvenience and would give greater emphasis to this point than it deserves. I am therefore writing to make it clear that we would

be signing the Supplementary Agreement with the understanding that its general language would not prevent notice of termination of the

1936 Agreement given by either party while we were both parties to

the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade from effecting termina61 Stat. , Pts.5and6. tion of the 1936 Agreement in six months .

I would appreciate it if you could give me the assurance that your Government has the same understanding .

Sincerely yours

WINTHROP G. BROWN

WINTHROP G. BROWN

Acting Chairman

Mr. PIERRE BARADUC

The Delegation of France Palais des Nations

61 STAT.]

FRANCE-RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A Member of the French Delegation to the Acting Chairman of the United States Delegation

MINISTÈRE DES

LIBERTÉ-ÉGALITÉ-FRATERNITÉ

AFFAIRES ÉTRANGÈRES

RÉPUBLIQUE FRANÇAISE

PARIS, LE 30 octobre 1947.

DELEGATION FRANÇAISE A LA COMMISSION PRÉPARATOIRE DE LA CONFÉRENCE DU COMMERCE ET DE L'EMPLOI

CHER MONSIEUR BROWN , Je m'empresse de vous accuser réception de votre lettre du 30
octobre et de vous confirmer que je suis entièrement d'accord avec vous pour estimer que le texte de l'Accord Complémentaire ne mettrait pas obstacle à la notification de la dénonciation de l'Accord de 1936 au cours de la période pendant laquelle nos deux Gouvernements seront parties à l'Accord Général sur les Tarifs et le Commerce .
Sincèrement vôtre,
Miene Marady

3719



P. BARADUC
Monsieur WINTHROP G. BROWN, Président de la Délégation des Etats-Unis d'Amérique à la Commission Préparatoire de la Conférence du Commerce et de l'Emploi, Geneve.

Translation
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS FRENCH DELEGATION
TO THE PREPARATORY C F THE CONFERENCE ON TRADE AND EMPLOYMENT
DEAR MR. BROWN:

LIBERTY-EQUALITY-FRATERNITY FRENCH REPUBLIC
PARIS, October 30, 1947.

I hasten to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of October 30 and to confirm to you that I am in complete agreement with you in

considering that the text of the Supplementary Agreement would

not prevent notification of the denunciation of the Agreement of 1936

during the period in which our two Governments will be parties to

the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Sincerely yours,
Mr. WINTHROP G. BROWN,

PIERRE BARADUC P. BARADUC

President ofthe United States Delegation to the Preparatory Committee ofthe Conference on Trade and Employment, Geneva .

53 Stat. 2236. 61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6.

61 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS-RECIPROCAL TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

3721

Agreement and accompanying letters between the United States of America and the Netherlands rendering inoperative the Trade Agreement of December 20, 1935, and supplementing the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of October 30, 1947. Signed at Geneva October 30, 1947 ; effective January 1 , 1948.

October 30, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1705]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE NETHERLANDS AND
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE GENERAL AGREEMENT
ON TARIFFS AND TRADE

3722

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE NETHERLANDS AND THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE

The Governments of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the United States of America,

Having participated in the framing of a General Agreement on 61 Stat. , Pts . 5 and 6. Tariffs and Trade and a Protocol of Provisional Application , the

texts of which have been authenticated by the Final Act adopted at

50 Stat. 1504.

the conclusion of the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment, signed this day,
Hereby agree that the Trade Agreement between the Netherlands and the United States of America , signed December 20 , 1935 , with accompanying exchange of notes and protocol, shall be inoperative for such time as the Netherlands and the United States of America

61 Stat. , Pt. 5, p. 475.

are both contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade as defined in Article XXXII thereof ; Provided, that in the event that either the Netherlands or the United States of America

should withdraw its application of the General Agreement, and the

said Trade Agreement should thereupon again become operative, the

customs treatment accorded by the Netherlands to products of the

155540. Stat . 1526, 1552,

United States of America described in Schedule I ( Section A ) , Schedule III , and Schedule IV ( Section A ) of the said Trade Agreement shall be no less favorable than that provided for such products in

the Customs Tariff annexed to the Belgo-Luxemburg-Netherlands

Customs Convention concluded September 5, 1944, [ ¹ ] as amended by

the protocol signed March 14, 1947. [ ¹ ]

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the representatives of the Governments of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the United States of America, after

having exchanged their full powers, found to be in good and due form, have signed this Supplementary Agreement.

DONE in duplicate, at Geneva, this thirtieth day of October, one thousand nine hundred and forty- seven.

For the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands :

A B SPEEKENBRINK

For the Government of the United States of America : WINTHROP G. BROWN
¹ [ Staatsblad van het Koninkrijk Der Nederlanden, 1947. (No. H 282. ) ]

61 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS- RECIPROCAL TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

3723

The Acting Chairman of the United States Delegation to the Acting Chairman ofthe Netherlands Delegation

DEAR DR. SPEEKINBRINK :

OCTOBER 30, 1947

A point of legal detail has been brought to my attention in connec-

tion with the Agreement Supplementary to the General Agreement on

Tariffs and Trade which we propose to sign on behalf of our two

Governments on October 30 making the Reciprocal Trade Agreement of 1935 between the United States and the Netherlands inoperative so

50 Stat. 1504.

long as both the United States and the Netherlands are parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
As you know, Article XVII of the 1935 Agreement provides that it

61 Stat., Pts. 5 and 6. Right of termination.

may be terminated by either party after three years on six months' notice. The inclusion of such a provision in all our trade agreements

is required by the Trade Agreements Act. Our lawyers have sug-

gested that the very general terms of the proposed Supplementary

Agreement might possibly be interpreted as making it impossible for

either party to the 1935 Agreement to exercise this right of termination.

It is, of course, improbable that either of our Governments would

wish to exercise this right of termination , but under our law we must ,

nevertheless , retain it in force. To suggest a formal amendment to the

proposed Supplementary Agreement expressly excepting Article XVII of the 1935 Agreement at this late date would cause considerable in-

convenience and would give greater emphasis to this point than it deserves. I am therefore writing to make it clear that we would be

signing the Supplementary Agreement with the understanding that its general language would not prevent notice of termination of the 1935

Agreement given by either party while we were both parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade from effecting termination of the 1935 Agreement in six months.
I would appreciate it if you could give me the assurance that your

Government has the same understanding. Sincerely yours,

WINTHROP G. BROWN WINTHROP G. BROWN

Dr. A. B. SPEEKENBRINK,

Acting Chairman

Netherlands Delegation,

Palais des Nations.

50 Stat. 1524. 61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6.

The Acting Chairman of the Netherlands Delegation to the Acting Chairman of the United States Delegation

NETHERLANDS DELEGATION

GENEVA, October 30th, 1947

DEAR MR. BROWN,

Referring to your letter of October 30, 1947 , I have the honour to affirm that the contents thereof are agreeable to the Netherlands Government. On behalf of my Government I can therefore assure you

3724

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

that they are in perfect accord with the understanding, that the general

50 Stat. 1504.

language of the Supplementary Agreement, which we sign today, would not prevent notice of termination of the 1935 Agreement given

by either party, while both parties were parties to the General Agree-

61 Stat., Pts. 5 and 6. ment on Tariffs and Trade, from affecting termination of the 1935

Agreement in six months.

Yours sincerely,

Dr.A.B Speekenbrin At Chairman Netherlands Delegation
Mr. WINTHROP G. BROWN Acting Chairman United States Delegation Palais des Nations Geneva.

61 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM--RECIPROCAL TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

3725

Agreement and accompanying letters between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland rendering inoperative the Trade Agreement of November 17, 1938, and supplementing the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of October 30, 1947. Signed at Geneva October 30, 1947; effective January 1, 1948.

October 30, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1706]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND NORTHERN IRELAND SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE

95347-50---PT. IV- -25

3726

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE GEN. ERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE

The Governments of the United States of America and the United

Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,

Having participated in the framing of a General Agreement on 61 Stat. , Pts. 5 and 6. Tariffs and Trade and a Protocol of Provisional Application, the
texts of which have been authenticated by the Final Act adopted at the

conclusion of the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment, signed this

54 Stat. 1897. 19 U. S. C. § 1351 note.
61 Stat., Pt. 5, p. 475.

day, Hereby agree that the Trade Agreement between the United States
of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, signed November 17, 1938 , with accompanying exchanges of notes, shall be inoperative for such time as the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland are both contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade as defined in Article XXXII thereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the representatives of the Governments of the

United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, after having exchanged their full powers, found to be in good and due form, have signed this Supplementary Agreement.

DONE in duplicate, at Geneva, this thirtieth day of October, one thousand nine hundred and forty-seven.

For the Government of the United States of America : WINTHROP G. BROWN

For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland : T. M. SNOW

61 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM- RECIPROCAL TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

3727

The Acting Chairman of the United States Delegation to the Acting Head of the British Delegation

DEAR MR. HELMORE :

OCTOBER 30, 1947

A point of legal detail has been brought to my attention in con-

nection with the Agreement Supplementary to the General Agreement

on Tariffs and Trade which we propose to sign on behalf of our two

Governments on October 30 making the Reciprocal Trade Agreement of 1939 [1 ] between the United States and the United Kingdom in-

54 Stat. 1897. 19 U. S. O. § 1351

operative so long as both the United States and the United Kingdom note.

are parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. As you know, Article XXV of the 1939 Agreement provides that
it may be terminated by either party after three years on six months'

Right of termination.
54 Stat. 1906,

notice. The inclusion of such a provision in all our trade agreements is required by the Trade Agreements Act. Our lawyers have suggested that the very general terms of the proposed Supplementary Agreement

48 Stat. 943.
19 U. S. C. §§ 13511354.

might possibly be interpreted as making it impossible for either party

to the 1939 Agreement to exercise this right of termination. It is, of course, improbable that either of our Governments would

wish to exercise this right of termination, but under our law we must,

nevertheless, retain it in force. To suggest a formal amendment to

the proposed Supplementary Agreement expressly excepting Article XXV ofthe 1939 Agreement at this late date would cause considerable

54 Stat. 1906.

inconvenience and would give greater emphasis to this point than it deserves. I am therefore writing to make it clear that we would be

signing the Supplementary Agreement with the understanding that its general language would not prevent notice of termination of the

1939 Agreement given by either party while we were both parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade from effecting termination of the 1939 Agreement in six months.

61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6.

I would appreciate it if you could give me the assurance that your Government has the same understanding.

Sincerely yours,

WINTHROP G. BROWN

WINTHROP G. BROWN

Mr. J. R. C. HELMORE, C.M.G., United Kingdom Delegation, Palais des Nations.

Acting Chairman

1 [The agreement was signed Nov. 17, 1938 ; entered into force provisionally, with exception of article XI and Schedule III, Jan. 1, 1939, and definitively Dec. 24, 1939. ]

3728 54 Stat. 1904.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

The Acting Head of the British Delegation to the Acting Chairman of the United States Delegation

UNITED KINGDOM DELEGATION TO
PREPARATORY COMMITTEE

DEAR MR. BROWN,

PALAIS DES NATIONS, GENEVA,
30. October. 1947.

I have received your letter of today's date regarding the Supplementary Agreement to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and its effect on Article XVIII of the 1939 Agreement between the United States and the United Kingdom. I confirm that my Government has the same understanding on this matter as that set out in your letter.
Yours sincerely,

.J.R.C. Helune

Mr. WINTHROP BROWN, Acting Chairman, United States Delegation, Palais des Nations, Geneva.

(J.R.C. Helmore)

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-RESTITUTION OF MONETARY GOLD-DEC. 16, 1947 3729

Protocol between the United States of America, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and France and Italy respecting the restitution of monetary gold. Signed at London December 16, 1947; entered into force December 16, 1947.

December 16, 1947 [T. L. A. S. 1707]

3730

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT,

PROTOCOL

THE Governments of the United States of America, the United

Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and the French

Republic, hereinafter referred to as "the Allied Governments con-

cerned," on the one hand , and the Government of Italy, on the other,

have, through the undersigned duly empowered representatives, agreed as follows :-

Italian share.

1. The Allied Governments concerned agree that Italy should

receive a proportional share of the gold distributed pursuant to Part

III of the Agreement on Reparations from Germany, on the establish-

ment of an Inter-Allied Reparations Agency and on the Restitution of

61 Stat. , Pt. 3, p.3180. Monetary Gold signed at Paris on 14th January, 1946 , on the same

basis as the countries signatory to the said Agreement to the extent

that Italy can establish that a definite amount of monetary gold

belonging to it was looted by Germany, or, at any time after 3rd September, 1943, was wrongfully removed into German territory.

2. Italy adheres to the arrangement for the restitution of monetary gold set forth in Part III of the afore-mentioned Agreement and declares that the portion of the monetary gold accruing to it under the Agreement is accepted in full satisfaction of all Italian claims against Germany for restitution of monetary gold .

3. Italy accepts the arrangements which have been or will be made

Claims deposit.

by the Allied Governments concerned for the implementation of the aforesaid arrangement.
4. (a) Pending the definitive settlement of such claims as may be

made pursuant to Article 75 , paragraph 8 , of the Peace Treaty with 61 Stat. , Pt. 2 , p . 1401. Italy within six months of the coming into force of the Treaty, the

Italian Government agrees to set aside out of its share as stipulated

above, as a guarantee for the execution of the said provisions of the

Treaty, and to leave on deposit with the Allied Governments con-

cerned , an amount of gold approximately equal to the claims which

it is now known will be made against Italy under the said provisions , viz. , 14,422 kilograms of fine gold in respect of the claim of France

and 8,857 kilograms of fine gold in respect of the claim of Yugoslavia.

(b) The amount provided for in sub -paragraph (a) shall be set aside in full out of any distribution made to Italy before any gold is withdrawn by Italy for its own use.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- RESTITUTION OF MONETARY GOLD- DEC. 16, 1947 3731
PROTOCOLE
LES Gouvernements des États-Unis d'Amérique, du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord , et de la République française, ci -après dénommés "Gouvernements alliés intéressés ," d'une part, et le Gouvernement italien, d'autre part, sont, par l'entremise de leurs représentants soussignés dûment munis des pouvoirs nécessaires , convenus de ce qui suit:
1. Les Gouvernements alliés intéressés sont d'accord pour que l'Italie reçoive une part proportionnelle de l'or à répartir en application de la Partie III de l'Accord concernant les Réparations à recevoir de l'Allemagne , l'institution d'une Agence interalliée des Réparations et la Restitution de l'Or monétaire , signé à Paris le 14 janvier 1946 , sur la même base que les pays signataires dudit accord , dans la mesure où l'Italie pourra établir qu'une quantité déterminée d'or monétaire lui appartenant a fait l'objet de spoliations par l'Allemagne , ou, à une date quelconque après le 3 septembre 1943 , de transferts illégitimes en territoire allemand .
2. L'Italie donne son adhésion à l'arrangement concernant la restitution de l'or monétaire figurant à la Partie III de l'accord mentionné ci-dessus et déclare que la quantité d'or monétaire lui revenant en vertu de l'accord est acceptée par elle en règlement complet de toutes les revendications italiennes contre l'Allemagne au titre des restitutions d'or monétaire.
3. L'Italie accepte les arrangements qui ont été ou seront faits par les Gouvernements alliés intéressés pour l'application dudit arrangement .
4. (a) En attendant le règlement définitif des réclamations qui pourront être présentées en application de l'article 75 , paragraphe 8, du Traité de Paix avec l'Italie dans le délai de six mois à partir de l'entrée en vigueur de ce traité , le Gouvernement italien est d'accord pour mettre de côté, sur sa part telle que stipulée ci-dessus , à titre de garantie pour l'application desdites dispositions du traité, et laisser en dépôt chez les Gouvernements alliés intéressés , une quantité d'or approximativement égale aux réclamations dont on sait actuellement qu'elles seront présentées contre l'Italie en vertu desdites dispositions , à savoir: 14,422 kilogrammes d'or fin , en ce qui concerne la réclamation de la France, et 8,857 kilogrammes d'or fin en ce qui concerne la réclamation de la Yougoslavie.
(b) La quantité stipulée à l'alinéa (a) sera mise intégralement de côté par prélèvement sur toute attribution qui sera faite à l'Italie avant qu'aucune quantité d'or ne soit retirée par l'Italie pour son propre usage.

3732

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

(c) The Allied Governments concerned will notify the Italian

Entry into force.

Government of the arrangements to be made for depositing the aforesaid amount of gold.
5. The present Protocol shall be deemed to have come into force

p.611245S.tat ., Pt . 2 , on the day of the coming into force of the Treaty of Peace.

Authentic texts.

Done in London this 16th day of December, 1947 , in the English

and French languages , of which both texts are equally authentic, in a single copy which shall be deposited in the archives of the Govern-

ment of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ,

by whom certified copies shall be transmitted to the other contracting Governments.

For the Government of the United States of America : L. W. DOUglas .

For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland : ERNEST BEVIN.
For the Government of the French Republic : R. MASSIGLI.

For the Government of Italy : T. GALLARATI SCOTTI .

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-RESTITUTION OF MONETARY GOLD-DEC . 16, 1947 3733
(c) Les Gouvernements alliés intéressés notifieront au Gouvernement italien les arrangements qui seront faits pour la constitution des dépôts de la quantité d'or indiquée ci-dessus.
5. Le présent protocole sera considéré comme étant entré en vigueur le jour de l'entrée en vigueur du Traité de Paix.
Fait à Londres en un seul exemplaire le 16 décembre 1947, en langues anglaise et française , les deux textes faisant également foi. Cet exemplaire sera conservé dans les archives du Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord , qui en remettra des copies certifiées aux autres parties contractantes.

Pour le Gouvernement des États-Unis d'Amérique: L. W. DOUGLAS.

Pour le Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni de GrandeBretagne et d'Irlande du Nord: ERNEST BEVIN.
Pour le Gouvernement de la République française: R. MASSIGLI.
Pour le Gouvernement italien: T. GALLARATI SCOTTI.
Certified a true copy.

[SEAL] LONDON 19 Dec 1947

H K GREY. Acting Librarian and Keeper of the Papersfor
the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.

3734

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

December 1 , 3, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1709]

Agreement between the United States of America and Greece respecting the transfer of United States naval vessels and equipment to the Greek Government. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington December 1 and 3, 1947; entered into force December 3, 1947.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Greek Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

EXCELLENCY :

December 1, 1947

I have the honor to refer to the Agreement between our two Govern61 Stat. , Pt. 3, p . 2907. ments on aid to Greece signed at Athens on June 20, 1947, and to
the proposed transfer thereunder to the Government of the Kingdom of Greece of certain United States naval vessels as listed in subpara-

graph 5 below. The Government of the United States of America,

in accordance with determinations made under Article 4 of the Agree-

61 Stat., Pt . 3, p. 2914. ment ofJune 20, 1947, proposes that the following terms and conditions

shall govern the transfer of such naval vessels.

Vessels, supplies, etc.

1. The Government of the United States will transfer to the

Government of Greece the vessels listed in subparagraph 5 below,

will provide materials and supplies for operation and maintenance

of such vessels together with six months ' supply of essential spare

parts, will furnish the technical advice and training of crews for

the operation of such vessels and will deliver such vessels at times

and places to be agreed. Such transfer of vessels and furnishing

of materials, supplies, technical advice, and the training of crews

Ownership of vessels.

shall be without cost or charge to the Government of Greece. 2. Ownership of the vessels transferred hereunder shall be
acquired by the Government of Greece at the time of delivery of

each vessel, which shall be evidenced by a delivery certificate ex-

Indemnification of
U. S. against claims, etc.

ecuted by the Government of Greece in the form prescribed by the Government of the United States.
3. The Government of Greece shall indemnify and hold harmless the Government of the United States, its officers, agents, servants,

Bofors 40 mm guns.

and employees against any and all claims, obligations, demands, losses, damages, expenses, and costs of every kind and nature in connection with the transfer of the vessels hereunder or the use and
operation thereof by the Government of Greece. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Government of Greece shall indemnify and hold harmless the Government of the United States,

its officers, agents, servants, and employees against any and all claims, obligations, demands , losses, damages, expenses, and costs arising or growing out of the transfer to the Government of Greece, or the use by such Government subsequent to such transfer, of Bofors

61 STAT. ] GREECE-TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS-DEC. 1, 3, 1947

3735

40mm guns or guns of similar type made or produced under or pursuant to an agreement dated June 21 , 1941 , [1 ] between the United

States of America and Aktiebolaget Bofors, a Swedish firm, which

guns may be or are part or parts of armament, equipment, or fittings of the vessels to be transferred under this agreement.
4. The Government of Greece shall not relinquish physical possession of, or transfer ownership of, any of the vessels or their armament, equipment, or fittings obtained under this agreement without the prior written consent of the Government of the United States. Naval equipment or information furnished under this agreement or otherwise, of any security classification whatsoever, shall be safe-

Non -relinquishment.
Safeguarding of equipment, etc.

guarded in accordance with the requirements of the appropriate security classifications of the United States Navy and no disclosure of such equipment or information shall be made by the Government of Greece to other governments or unauthorized persons without the prior written consent of the Government of the United States.
5. The following vessels are proposed to be transferred to the Government of Greece under the Agreement of June 20, 1947 in accordance with the provisions of Public Law No. 75 of the 80th

Vessels to be transferred .
61 Stat., Pt.3, p. 2907.
61 Stat., Pt. 1 , p. 103.

Congress.

PGM 16 PGM 21 PGM 22 PGM 25 PGM 28 PGM 29

The foregoing terms and conditions with respect to the transfer of naval vessels will be considered in effect upon their acceptance by the Government of Greece.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
ROBERT A. LOVETT

Acting Secretary of State

His Excellency VASSILI C. DENDRAMIS, Ambassador of Greece.

The Greek Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

No. 9123/6

ROYAL GREEK EMBASSY WASHINGTON December 3, 1947.

EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated De-
cember 1, 1947, which is as follows :
"I have the honor to refer to the Agreement between our two Governments on aid to Greece signed at Athens on June 20, 1947, and

Ante, p. 3734. 61 Stat., Pt.3, p. 2907.

1 [Not printed. ]

3736

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

to the proposed transfer thereunder to the Government of the Kingdom

of Greece of certain United States naval vessels as listed in subpara-

graph 5 below. The Government of the United States of America, in accordance with determinations made under Article 4 of the Agree-

61 Stat. , Pt . 3 , p. 2914.

ment of June 20, 1947 , proposes that the following terms and conditions shall govern the transfer of such naval vessels.
1. The Government of the United States will transfer to the

Government of Greece the vessels listed in subparagraph 5 below,

will provide materials and supplies for operation and maintenance of such vessels together with six months' supply of essential spare

parts, will furnish the technical advice and training of crews for the

operation of such vessels and will deliver such vessels at times and

places to be agreed. Such transfer of vessels and furnishing of

materials, supplies, technical advice, and the training of crews shall

be without cost or charge to the Government of Greece.

2. Ownership of the vessels transferred hereunder shall be ac-

quired by the Government of Greece at the time of delivery of each

vessel, which shall be evidenced by a delivery certificate executed

by the Government of Greece in the form prescribed by the Government of the United States.

3. The Government of Greece shall indemnify and hold harmless the Government of the United States, its officers, agents, servants,

and employees against any and all claims, obligations, demands, losses, damages, expenses, and costs of every kind and nature in connection with the transfer of the vessels hereunder or the use and

operation thereof by the Government of Greece. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Government of Greece shall indemnify and hold harmless the Government of the United States, its officers, agents, servants , and employees against any and all claims, obligations , demands , losses, damages, expenses, and costs arising or growing out of the transfer to the Government of Greece, or the use by such Government subsequent to such transfer, of Bofors 40mm guns or guns of similar type made or produced under or pursuant to an agreement dated June 21 , 1941 , between the United

States of America and Aktiebolaget Bofors, a Swedish firm , which guns may be or are part or parts of armament, equipment, or fittings of the vessels to be transferred under this agreement.
4. The Government of Greece shall not relinquish physical posses-

sion of, or transfer ownership of, any of the vessels or their armament, equipment, or fittings obtained under this agreement without the prior written consent of the Government of the United States. Naval equipment or information furnished under this agreement or otherwise, of any security classification whatsoever, shall be safe-

guarded in accordance with the requirements of the appropriate security classifications of the United States Navy and no disclosure of such equipment or information shall be made by the Government of Greece to other governments or unauthorized persons without the prior written consent of the Government of the United States.
5. The following vessels are proposed to be transferred to the

61 STAT. ] GREECE- TRANSFER OF U. S. VESSELS-DEC. 1 , 3, 1947

3737

Government of Greece under the Agreement of June 20, 1947 in accordance with the provisions of Public Law No. 75 of the 80th Congress.
PGM 16 PGM 21 PGM 22 PGM 25 PGM 28 PGM 29

61 Stat., Pt. 3, p. 2907. 61 Stat., Pt. 1 , p. 103.

The foregoing terms and conditions with respect to the transfer of

naval vessels will be considered in effect upon their acceptance by the Government of Greece. "
I am authorized by my Government to inform you in reply that it agrees with the contents of the letter and accepts the terms and

Acceptance of terms by Greek Govern-
ment .

conditions with respect to the transfer of the foregoing naval vessels .

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

VASSILI DENDRAMIS

Ambassador of Greece

His Excellency ROBERT A. LOVETT Acting Secretary of State

3738

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

March 25 and April 2, 1947 (T. I. A. S. 1710]

Agreement between the United States of America and Mexico respecting the temporary migration of Mexican agricultural workers, supplementing the agreement of August 4, 1942, as revised April 26, 1943. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Mexico City March 25 and April 2, 1947; entered into force April 2, 1947.

The American Ambassador to the Mexican Secretary of Foreign Relations

EMBASSY OF THE

No. 697 EXCELLENCY :

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Mexico, D.F., March 25, 1947.

I have the honor to refer to the recent negotiations which have taken

place between the Intersecretarial Committee of Your Excellency's

Government and Messrs. Wilson R. Buie and Durrell L. Lord, repre-

senting the United States Department of Agriculture, regarding the continued employment of Mexican agricultural workers in the United

visSiuopnpsl. ementary pro- States, and to request that Your Excellency be good enough to inform the Intersecretarial Committee that my Government agrees to the

following supplementary provisions in relation to the program being

56 Stat. 1759. 57 Stat. 1152.

carried out under the terms of the agreement between the United States of America and Mexico, which was signed on August 4, 1942, and revised April 26 , 1943 :

1. It is agreed that no change in the present wording of the Work Agreement form now in use need be made, but specific understandings hereinafter suggested are to be given effect by appropriate administrative action.
2. It is understood that workers who are to be employed any part of the time in work on the sugar beet crops will be informed of that fact and that much of such work is arduous.
3. It is agreed that when implementing Paragraph 2 of the Work Agreements, the location meant by the words "area" and "region " will be considered to be the County in which the Mexican worker is employed.
4. It is understood that in each worker's contract there will be
inserted, by rubber stamp and upon the dotted line, the name of the place where the worker was first interviewed in connection with his contract, and that place can be considered his "point of origin" for all purposes under his contract. 5. It is agreed that in the event it becomes necessary to repatriate Mexican workers before the expiration of their contracts as a result of a determination that their services are no longer necessary, the United States Department of Agriculture will use every means available to avoid terminating the contracts of

61 STAT. ] MEXICO-MIGRATION OF AGRICULTURAL WORKERS-Mar. 25, 1947 Apr. 2, 1947

3739

Mexican workers who have recently arrived in the United States, repatriating instead, if necessary, those Mexican workers who

have been employed in the United States over longer periods of time. 6. It is understood that, except for days in which the worker works more than four hours, and except for Sundays occurring before the worker's contract has been terminated, there shall be paid to any worker who is physically able to perform his work, the cost of feeding during the period of time in which he has not been utilized for reasons beyond his control. 7. It is agreed that the food provided on the farms or by the commissaries controlled by the farmers must be provided to the workers at cost, and must not exceed $1.50 U. S. Currency per day. 8. It is understood that farmers will be notified that the Consuls

of Mexico or the delegates which the Intersecretarial Committee assigns will have power to review the workers' contracts, study the sanitary system and the cost and class of food in those cases where they may consider it necessary. 9. It is agreed that it is to be recommended to the farmers that the balance amounts which remain due the workers from salaries

and savings-fund deductions be paid by one check payable to the

Banco Nacional de Credito Agricola, to which is attached a list

of the workers involved and their respective interests therein. 10. It is agreed that, particularly in view of the increased minimum

wage rates to be paid for work in connection with the 1947 sugar

beet crop by producers who apply for payments under the Sugar Act of 1937, as amended, the provision of 37 cents per hour minimum wage in provision 2 of the Work Agreements remain un-

50 Stat. 903. 7 U. S. C. § 1100 et seq.

changed, but that the United States Department of Agriculture

undertakes, exactly as the Work Agreements provide, that the

treatment in respect to salaries which is given Mexican workers ,

shall in no way be inferior to that accorded United States domestic labor.

11. It is agreed that if, at the termination of the contract, the worker is not returned to Mexico for reasons beyond his control,

commencing on the 15th day following the date of the termination of the contract, the worker will be paid by the United States Department of Agriculture, 50 cents U. S. Currency for each day up to the date of embarkation of the worker for Mexico, this sum being in addition to the subsistence and other benefits heretofore provided.

It is understood that this note, together with Your Excellency's reply in the same terms, shall constitute an agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Mexican States on the supplementary provisions cited above.

3740

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
WALTER THURSTON His Excellency
Señor Don JAIME TORRES BODET, Secretary ofForeign Relations, Mexico, D. F.

The Mexican Secretary of Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES ESTADOS UNIDOS MEXICANOS MEXICO

EXCELENCIA :

MÉXICO, D.F. 2 de abril de 1947.

Me es grato dar respuesta a la muy atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia, número 697, fechada el 25 de marzo próximo pasado, que a continuación transcribo :

"Tengo el honor de referirme a las recientes negociaciones que se llevaron a cabo entre la Comisión Intersecretarial nombrada por el Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia y los señores Wilson R. Buie y Durrell L. Lord, representantes del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos, relacionadas con el deseo de seguir utilizando los servicios de trabajadores agrícolas mexicanos en los Estados Unidos, para solicitar a Vuestra Excelencia que tenga a bien informar a la Comisión Intersecretarial aludida, que mi Gobierno está de acuerdo con las siguientes cláusulas suplementarias, relativas al programa que se está llevando a cabo dentro de los términos del Convenio vigente entre los Estados Unidos de América y México, que fué firmado el 4 de agosto de 1942 y rectificado el 26 de abril de 1943 .
1.- Estamos de acuerdo en que no hay necesidad de hacer cambio alguno en la redacción del nuevo Contrato de trabajo, pero que en lo sucesivo los acuerdos expresos que tengan lugar sean formalizados mediante intercambio de notas.
2.- Estamos entendidos en que los trabajadores que serán empleados en la cosecha del betabel serán motivo de selección con objeto de utilizar solamente a los experimentados, por tratarse de un trabajo pesado.
3.- Damos nuestra conformidad para que las palabras "area" y "región" que se mencionan en el párrafo 20. del Contrato de Trabajo, cuando se refieren al lugar de empleo, se consideren como el lugar del Condado en donde el trabajador preste sus servicios.
4.- Se toma nota de que en el Contrato de cada trabajador se anotará por medio de un sello y sobre una línea, el nombre del lugar donde el trabajador fué contratado originalmente, y que ese lugar

61 STAT.] MEXICO- MIGRATION OF AGRICULTURAL WORKERS- Mar. 25, 1947 Apr. 2, 1947
será considerado como su "punto de orígen" para todos los fines del citado Contrato .
5.- Estamos de acuerdo en que, en el caso de que sea necesario repatriar a trabajadores mexicanos antes de la terminación de sus Contratos, como resultado del hecho de que sus servicios no sean ya necesarios, el Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos hará todo lo que esté de su parte para evitar que tal desocupación afecte a los trabajadores mexicanos de reciente arribo a los Estados Unidos, repatriándose en su lugar, cuando sea necesario, a aquellos que hayan prestado sus servicios por períodos más largos.
6.- Se entiende que con excepción de los días en los cuales el trabajador no sea utilizado por más de cuatro horas, ( excluyéndose los domingos) , que transcurran antes de que termine su contrato, se le proporcionarán los gastos de alimentación por el tiempo en que no presta sus servicios, por causas ajenas a su voluntad, siempre que esté físicamente capacitado para desempeñar sus funciones.
7.- Se acepta que los alimentos proporcionados en los ranchos o por las "comisarías" controladas por los patrones serán al precio de costo, no debiendo exceder de la cantidad de Dls. 1.50 por día.
8.- Se acepta que se dé aviso a los patrones en el sentido de que los Cónsules de México y los Delegados designados por la Comisión Intersecretarial tendrán el derecho de revisar el cumplimiento de
los contratos de los trabajadores, estudiar el sistema sanitario, así como la clase y costo de los alimentos, cuando ellos lo consideren. necesario.
9.- Se manifiesta conformidad en recomendar a los patrones que el saldo que se quede a deber a los trabajadores, por concepto de sueldos o descuentos, sea pagado en un cheque expedido a favor del "Banco Nacional de Crédito Agrícola ", al cual se le agregará la lista de los trabajadores beneficiados , así como la de las cantidades individuales que se les adeudan.
10. Se manifiesta, particularmente, que en vista del aumento de las cuotas por concepto de salario mínimo, que serán pagadas por trabajos relacionados con la cosecha del betabel por el año de 1947, por patrones que soliciten pagos amparados por la "Ley del Azúcar" de 1937, modificada, la cuota de salario mínimo de 37 centavos por hora, prevista en la Cláusula 2a . del Contrato de Trabajo , quedará intacta, pero que el Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos se comprometerá, de acuerdo con las condiciones del Contrato de Trabajo , a que el tratamiento que se dé a los trabajadores mexicanos en cuestión de salarios, de ninguna manera sea inferior al que disfruten los trabajadores agrícolas norteamericanos.
11.- Estamos de acuerdo en que, si al terminarse el Contrato de Trabajo el trabajador no es regresado a México , por causas ajenas a su voluntad , se le pague por parte del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos la cantidad de 50 centavos diarios, moneda
americana, a partir del 15° día hasta la fecha de su embarque a México, suma que deberá considerarse suplementaria de la que
95347°-50- PT. IV- 26

3741

3742

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
recibirá por concepto de subsistencia y otros beneficios establecidos en los Contratos. "
Queda entendido que la presente nota, unida a la contestación aprobatoria que Vuestra Excelencia se sirva darle, constituirá un Convenio entre el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América y el de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos sobre las Cláusulas Suplementarias arriba citadas".
En debida respuesta me es grato participar a Vuestra Excelencia, que reconociendo la buena voluntad de los Representantes del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos para coordinar sus puntos de vista con los de la Comisión Intersecretarial Mexicana, mì Gobierno manifiesta su conformidad con los términos de la nota preinserta , considerándolos como complementarios del acuerdo del 26 de abril de 1943 , en la inteligencia de que, si en la práctica , se encontrasen divergencias de interpretación respecto a si debe aplicarse el convenio antes aludido de 1943, o las cláusulas adicionales arriba citadas, mi Gobierno espera que se aplicará el texto que resulte más favorable al trabajador.
Me es grato reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia el testimonio de mi más alta consideración.
Jaime Torres Bodet .

Ante, p. 3738.

A su Excelencia Señor WALTER THURSTON Embajador de los Estados Unidos de América México, D. F.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS UNITED MEXICAN STATES MEXICO

EXCELLENCY :

MEXICO, D. F. , April 2, 1947.

I take pleasure in replying to Your Excellency's very courteous note No. 697, dated March 25 last, which I transcribe as follows :

"I have the honor to refer to the recent negotiations which have taken place between the Interdepartmental Committee appointed by Your Excellency's Government and Messrs. Wilson R. Buie and Durrell L. Lord , representing the United States Department of Agriculture, regarding the desire to continue to employ Mexican agricultural workers in the United States, and to request that Your Excellency be good enough to inform the above-mentioned Interdepartmental Committee that my Government agrees to the following supplemen-

61 STAT. ] MEXICO-MIGRATION OF AGRICULTURAL WORKERS- Mar. 25, 1947 Apr. 2, 1947

3743

tary clauses relative to the program being carried out under the terms of the Agreement in force between the United States of America and Mexico, which was signed on August 4, 1942, and revised April 26, 1943 :

56 Stat. 1759; 57 Stat. 1152.

1. It is agreed that there is no change in the wording of the new Work Contract need be made, but that, in the future, the understandings mentioned which are made shall be formalized by means of an exchange of notes.
2. It is understood that the workers who are to be employed in

the harvesting of sugar beets shall be subjected to a process of selection for the purpose of employing experienced workers only, since the work involved is arduous.

3. It is agreed that the words "area" and "region" which are mentioned in Paragraph 2 of the Work Contract shall, when they refer to the place of employment, be considered as meaning the place in the County where the worker is employed.
4. It is noted that in each worker's contract there will be inserted, by means of a stamp and on a line, the name of the place where the

worker signed the contract originally, and that that place shall be considered as his "point of origin" for all the purposes of the abovementioned Contract.

5. It is agreed that, in the event it becomes necessary to repatriate Mexican workers before the expiration of their contracts as a result of the fact that their services are no longer necessary, the United

States Department of Agriculture will use every means available to prevent such unemployment from affecting the Mexican workers who

have recently arrived in the United States, repatriating instead, when necessary, those who have been employed over longer periods of time.
6. It is understood that, except for those days (excluding Sundays) when the worker is not used for more than four hours, which occur before his contract terminates, he shall be given the cost of his food for the time in which he does not work, for reasons beyond his control, provided he is physically able to perform his work.
7. It is agreed that the food provided on the farms or by the commissaries controlled by the farmers shall be provided at cost , and must not exceed 1.50 dollars per day.
8. It is understood that the farmers will be notified that the Consuls

of Mexico and the Delegates assigned by the Interdepartmental Committee will have the right to examine the fulfillment of the workers' contracts, to study the sanitary system, as well as the class and cost of the food, when they may consider it necessary.
9. It is agreed that it be recommended to the farmers that the balance which remains due to the workers from wages or deductions be paid by one check payable to the "Banco Nacional de Crédito Agrícola", to which shall be attached a list of the workers to receive payment, as well as one of the individual amounts owed to them.

10. It is agreed, particularly, that in view of the increase in minimum wage rates to be paid for work in connection with the 1947 beet

3744

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

sugar crop by farmers who apply for payments under the Sugar Act of

50 Stat. 903.

1937, as amended , the minimum wage rate of 37 cents per hour pro-

7 U. S. C. § 1100 et

seq.

vided for in the second clause of the Work Contract will remain un-

changed, but that the United States Department of Agriculture will

undertake, in accordance with the condition of the Work Contract, to

provide that the treatment given to the Mexican workers with respect to wages shall in no way be inferior to that enjoyed by United States

farm labor.

11. It is agreed that if, at the termination of the Work Contract , the worker is not returned to Mexico for reasons beyond his control , com-

mencing on the 15th day he will be paid by the United States Department of Agriculture the sum of 50 cents U. S. currency for each day up to the date of his embarkation for Mexico , and that this sum must be considered as being in addition to that which he will receive in the form of subsistence and other benefits provided for in the contracts.
"It is understood that this note, together with the reply in accept-

ance which Your Excellency may be so good as to make thereto, shall constitute an Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Mexican States on the supplementary clauses cited above. "
In due reply, I am pleased to inform Your Excellency that, recognizing the friendly desire on the part of representatives of the United States Department of Agriculture to co-ordinate their points of view with those of the Mexican Interdepartmental Committee, my Government expresses its agreement with the terms of the above-inserted note,

57 Stat. 1152.

considering those terms as supplementary to the Agreement of April 26, 1943, with the understanding that if, in practice , differences of interpretation should be encountered as to whether the above-mentioned Agreement of 1943 or the above-cited additional clauses should be applied, my Government hopes that the text which is more favorable to the worker will be applied.

I take pleasure in renewing to Your Excellency the assurance of my

highest consideration .

JT BODET.

JAIME TORRES BODET.

His Excellency WALTER THURSTON

Ambassador of the United States of America Mexico, D. F.

61 STAT.] SWEDEN-RECIPROCAL TRADE- JUNE 24, 1947

3745

Agreement between the United States of America and Sweden respecting quantitative import restrictions , modifying temporarily the agreement of May 25, 1935. Effected by an exchange of aide-mémoire dated at Washington June 24, 1947; entered into force June 24 , 1947. And an exchange of letters .

June 24, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1711]

The Swedish Legation to the Department of State LEGATION OF SWEDEN
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
AIDE-MEMOIRE

The Government of Sweden wishes to refer to the discussions which have recently taken place between its representatives and representatives of the Government of the United States of America, concerning the problems, in relation to the Commercial Agreement between the United States of America and Sweden of May 25, 1935 , which have arisen as a result of the imposition of quantitative import restrictions by the Swedish Government on March 15, 1947.

49 Stat. 3755.

1. During the course of these discussions the Swedish representatives have presented extensive information setting forth the serious reduction in Sweden's reserves of gold and foreign exchange, and the resulting necessity of imposing measures of control for the purpose of correcting this situation .
2. With respect to goods en route or on order at the time of the imposition of quantitative import restrictions on March 15, 1947, the Government of Sweden , after consultation with the United States Government, has announced that licenses will be granted for the import of all commodities which were placed under import restrictions on that date, provided that the Swedish importer when applying for an import license establishes the following facts :
a. that a bona fide contract contemplating delivery prior to October 1 , 1947 had been entered into, on or before March 15, 1947 , and

b. that the delivery in Sweden of the goods mentioned in the contract will be effected before October 1 , 1947.

3. The Government of Sweden brings to the notice of the United States Government the statement of its support of the principle of unrestricted , multilateral trade on the basis of free competition and of those policies which have for their purpose the encouragement of this principle, recently made in the official communique of May 12 , 1947 , regarding discussions between the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and other representatives of the Governments of Denmark, Norway and Sweden . The Swedish Government has

3746 49 Stat. 3768.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
officially announced its desire that the quantitative restrictions upon imports, imposed by it on March 15 , 1947 , shall be of as short duration as possible . The Swedish Government also brings to the notice of the United States Government the Government Bill of May 30 , 1947 , in which it indicated its desire, due consideration being given to existing trade agreements, to see an expansion of the volume and a development of the direction of Swedish exports serving to redress Sweden's international balance of payments at the earliest possible date. The Swedish Government has not at present any undertaking, and does not propose to enter into undertakings, that specific commodities will be delivered to specific countries unless such a policy should form part of a fair allocation among all importing countries of essential commodities in short supply.
4. During the period while the quantitative import restrictions remain in force, the Government of Sweden, which has taken note of the fact that the Government of the United States of America does not in relation to Sweden restrict the free disposition of dollar earnings or assets, except as provided for in the exchange of letters of March 18 and 25, 1947 ['] establishing the procedure for unblocking of Swedish assets in the United States, will continue to authorize all current payments, including payments for imports and the transfer of earnings and remittances, and will limit such control of foreign exchange as it may become necessary to maintain to the control of international capital movements .
5. During the period while the quantitative restrictions upon imports remain in force the Government of Sweden when administering the controls will observe the following principles : a. Commodities will be licensed without regard to the country of origin, except as stated below.
b. In those instances where, during the period covered by the present arrangements , the above licensing principle would exert a restrictive influence on the overall volume of international trade by reducing imports from areas experiencing a serious shortage of gold and/or convertible currencies in a way which would not improve Sweden's multilateral payments possibilities, Sweden in granting import licenses may take into consideration the special payments possibilities which may exist between Sweden and the country of origin.
c. Licenses will, unless otherwise agreed, be granted permitting the importation of commodities from the United States listed in Schedule I of the Commercial Agreement between the United States of America and Sweden of 1935 , and not on the unrestricted list, to an amount, for the period from January 1 , 1947 to June 30, 1948 , equivalent to not less than 150 % of the volume of like imports from the United States during 1946.
1 [Not printed.]

61 STAT.] SWEDEN-RECIPROCAL TRADE-JUNE 24, 1947

d. No commodity or class of commodities imported from the United States during the operation of the Commercial Agreement between the United States of America and Sweden of 1935 shall be entirely excluded .
e. No commodity now on the unrestricted list and imported from the United States during the operation of the Commercial Agreement between the United States of America and Sweden of 1935 shall be removed from that list without
equitable transitional arrangements having been provided .
6. The Government of Sweden will place in operation as of July 1 , 1947 the system of administering the import controls envisaged in this aide-memoire.

7. The Government of Sweden recognizes that the Commercial Agreement between the United States of America and Sweden of 1935 remains in full force and effect, save for those temporary modifications in its operation provided for in this exchange of memoranda.

8. If unforeseen developments require a temporary modification in the terms of the understanding embodied in this exchange of memoranda, and in any event before the expiration of this understanding on June 30 , 1948 , the Government of Sweden agrees to review the situation with the Government of the United States of America for the purpose of considering such action as the circumstances may demand .

WASHINGTON, D.C. , June 24 , 1947.

H. E.

3747

The Department of State to the Swedish Legation AIDE-MEMOIRE

The Government of the United States of America refers to the aidememoire of the Government of Sweden, dated June 24, 1947, concerning the problems , in relation to the Commercial Agreement between the United States of America and Sweden of May 25 , 1935 , which have arisen as a result of the imposition of quantitative import restrictions by the Swedish Government on March 15, 1947. The Government of the United States of America :

49 Stat. 3755.

1. Takes note of the entensive information presented by the representatives of the Swedish Government with respect to the serious reduction in Sweden's reserves of gold and convertible exchange indicating the necessity of imposing measures to correct this situation ;
2. Acknowledges the declaration made by the Government of Sweden of its adherence to the principle of unrestricted , multilateral trade on the basis of free competition, and takes note of the desire of the Swedish Government that the quantitative restrictions upon imports imposed by it on March 15 , 1947 shall be of as short duration as possible ;

3748 49 Stat. 3757, 3760.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
3. Takes note of the statements of the Government of Sweden with respect to the administration of the quantitative import restrictions ;
4. Agrees for the duration of the present arrangement not to invoke the provisions of Articles II and VII of the Commercial Agreement between the United States of America and Sweden of 1935 , in respect of the measures taken or to be taken by the Government of Sweden as set forth in its aide-memoire;
5. Recognizes that the Commercial Agreement between the United States of America and Sweden of 1935 remains in full force and effect , save for those temporary modifications in its operation provided for in this exchange of memoranda ;
6. Agrees to review the situation with the Government of Sweden prior to July 1 , 1948 for the purpose of considering such action as the circumstances may demand.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE, Washington, June 24, 1947.

The Swedish Minister to the Assistant Secretary for Economic Affairs

LEGATION OF SWEDEN WASHINGTON 8, D. C.

JUNE 24, 1947.

MY DEAR MR. SECRETARY :

In connection with the discussions which have recently taken place between representatives of the Government of Sweden and of the Government of the United States concerning the problems arising as a result of the imposition of quantitative import restrictions by the Swedish Government on March 15, 1947 , the Government of Sweden transmitted a memorandum to the Government of the United States

on June 24, 1947, which stated in part :

"The Government of Sweden . . . will continue to authorize all

current payments , including payments for imports and the transfer

of earnings and remittances and will limit such control of foreign

exchange as it may become necessary to maintain to the control

Conditions respect-
ing foreign exchange, etc.

of international capital movements ." In applying the principles set forth in this memorandum the Swedish Government agrees to make the registration and control of foreign

exchange and the restriction of capital movements subject to the following conditions :

a. The Swedish Government will not impose restrictions on current transactions additional to those now in use and thus will continue
to authorize current payments of a customary nature from Sweden to the United States (payment of profits, dividends, interest, royalties, payments for commercial purposes and other payments relating to current business provided that the underlying transactions, wherever necessary, have been duly authorized (including balances accrued from the same sources in the

61 STAT. ] SWEDEN-RECIPROCAL TRADE-JUNE 24, 1947

past)) . With regard to balances accumulated from the same sources in the past, transfer will be authorized unless the funds in question have been voluntarily invested in Sweden. The appropriate agencies of the Swedish Government, moreover , will examine carefully with due regard to the Swedish exchange position requests for transfers of capital from Sweden to the United States when transfers of that type might serve a useful commercial and economic purpose, and where transfers of small amounts are of substantial importance to the interested parties. They will examine in the same spirit requests for transfers of funds to the United States filed by American nationals residing in Sweden.
b. The Swedish Government or the appropriate agencies thereof will likewise continue to authorize persons residing in Sweden who without having violated Swedish law owe bona fide dollar obligations to any governmental agency, individual or firm in the United States, to discharge such obligations when they are due, and if necessary, it will authorize such persons to purchase dollars for that purpose.

If unforeseen circumstances require temporary modification of the

principles set forth above, the Government of Sweden, in accordance

with the provisions of its memorandum of June 24, 1947, will review the situation with the Government of the United States.

Sincerely,

HERMAN ERIKSSON

Mr. WILLARD L. THORP, Assistant Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of State, Washington, D.C.

The Assistant Secretary for Economic Affairs to the Swedish Minister

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

MY DEAR MR. MINISTER:

June 24, 1947

I am pleased to have received your letter of June 24, 1947 , setting forth the policies which the Swedish Government will follow in accomplishing the registration and control of foreign exchange and the restriction of capital movements .

I take pleasure in stating that the provisions of this letter are acceptable to the Government of the United States.
Sincerely yours, WILLARD L THORP

The Honorable HERMAN ERIKSSON, Minister of Sweden.

3749

3750

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

September 13, 24 , 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1713]

Agreement between the United States of America and Italy respecting American dead in World War II. Effected by exchange of notes verbales dated at Rome September 13 and 24, 1946; entered into force
September 24, 1946.

The American Embassy to the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs

F. O. No. 654

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

NOTE VERBALE

Deceased members of U. S. Armed Forces The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compli-

buried in Italy.

ments to the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has the honor to

refer to the Embassy's Note Verbale no . 561 of July 3, 1946 , [ '] and the

Ministry's Note Verbale no. 19/27869/160 of August 20, 1946 , [ '] as well as to the subsequent informal conversations between Minister

Zoppi representing the Ministry and Mr. Henderson representing the Embassy, all in connection with the desire of the Government of the

United States to conclude a bilateral agreement with the Government

of the Italian Republic with respect to the disposition and care of the remains of deceased members of the United States Armed Forces who

are now buried in Italy.

The Embassy takes pleasure in advising the Ministry that the Department of State is agreeable to amending the original draft of the proposed agreement as follows, in accordance with the informal re-

quests made by Minister Zoppi on September 3:

Post, p. 3751.

Introductory paragraph, Article I: "The United States, through its duly designated representatives, shall have the following facilities: "

Post, p. 3752.

Subparagraph E, Article I : "The Government of the United States shall have the unrestricted right, in cooperation with Italian authorities, to examine and open all records, military or civilian, which may be of assistance in locating the graves or identifying the remains of its deceased military or civilian personnel."
The final sentence of Article III is also amended to read: "The provisions of Article I, Subparagraphs A, B and C will apply in the construction and maintenance of such permanent cemeteries and memorials as may be desired ."
In order to formalize the proposed bilateral agreement, the full amended text is incorporated in this note as an attachment to it . If, pursuant to the oral agreement already reached over the amended text, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will likewise incorporate the said text into its reply to the present note , the Government of the United

1 [Not printed .]

61 STAT. ] ITALY- AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II- SEPT. 13, 24, 1946

States will consider the bilateral agreement concluded and will take appropriate steps for its application by delegates designated by the United States in agreement with the proper Italian authorities.

ROME, September 13, 1946.
Attachment : Amended text of bilateral agreement.

DK

To the

Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Rome.

Attachment

3751

The following shall govern relative to the disposal of the remains of deceased persons who were citizens of the United States and/or who served or who accompanied the Armed Forces of the United States and are now buried in Italy or any possession or territory now or hereafter subject to the control of the Italian Government.

Article I

The United States, through its duly designated representatives , shall have the following facilities :

U. S. facilities.

A. The Government of the United States shall have the right to

Temporary ceme. teries .

establish and maintain such temporary cemeteries as are necessary for

the burial of deceased persons subject to its control and to make exhumations therefrom for repatriation or concentration into their ceme-

teries abroad, and may move bodies from other countries into and/or

through Italy and its territories and possessions for interment and/or

trans-shipment.

B. The Government of the United States shall be exempted from all

Exemption from certain laws and/or

national, local or other laws and/or regulations relating to the permits regulations.

for disinterments , sanitation, upon an assurance that such work will be conducted in a manner not detrimental to public health , and from the payment of any duties, taxes or fees of any kind whatsoever for the

burial, disinterment for reburial or movement of bodies or the maintenance of graves .
C. The Government of the United States shall have the right of free entrance and exit for all personnel, supplies, transportation (air,

Free entrance and exit, etc.

rail , animal and/or water) serving or belonging to the United States, and the use of airfields, port facilities, warehousing, living quarters,

office space, rail and water transportation and the right to employ

labor in Italy, its territories and possessions essential to the accomplishment of its mission, upon payment of just compensation thereof.
D. The Government of the United States shall have the unrestricted

Right to search.

right to search for the remains of members of its armed forces and/or its citizens .

E. The Government of the United States shall have the unrestricted

right, in cooperation with Italian authorities, to examine and open all

records, military or civilian , which may be of assistance in locating the

3752

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

graves or identifying the remains of its deceased military or civilian personnel.
F. The Government of the United States shall have the right to question and examine citizens of Italy and to take affidavits in furtherance of its search for and identification of remains of members of its armed forces and/or its citizens.

Article II

Assistance from Ital-

ian Government.

The Government of Italy will render all possible assistance in

locating and securing the effects of deceased military and civilian

personnel of the United States and upon demand and the furnishing of

a proper receipt, will turn over to representatives of the United States

all effects so located and secured.

Article III
If in the future the Government of the United States wishes to establish permanent cemeteries or erect memorials in Italy , the Italian Government will exercise its power of Eminent Domain to acquire title to such sites and grant to the United States the right of use therein in perpetuity upon payment by the United States of cost compensation therefor. Any sites acquired, including improvements thereto and buildings constructed thereon, shall be exempt from any and all form of taxation, direct or indirect. The provisions of Article I , Subparagraphs A, B and C will apply in the construction and maintenance of such permanent cemeteries and memorials as may be desired .

The Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy
MINISTERO DEGLI AFFARI ESTERI D. G. A. POL. VIII°
NOTA VERBALE
Il Ministero degli Affari Esteri ha l'onore di accusare ricevuta all'Ambasciata degli Stati Uniti d'America della Nota Verbale n. 654 del 13 settembre 1946 , alla quale é allegato il progetto d'accordo bilaterale italo-americano , relativo alla sistemazione dei Cimiteri di guerra americani in Italia, il cui testo é il seguente:
The following shall govern relative to the disposal of the remains of deceased persons who were citizens of the United States and/or who served or who accompanied the Armed Forces of the United States and are now buried in Italy or any possession or territory now or hereafter subject to the control of the Italian Government .
Article I
The United States, through its duly designated representatives shall have the following facilities :
A. The Government of the United States shall have the right to establish and maintain such temporary cemeteries as are necessary for

61 STAT. ] ITALY-AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II--SEPT. 13, 24, 1946
the burial of deceased persons subject to its control and to make exhumations therefrom for repatriation or concentration into their cemeteries abroad, and may move bodies from other countries into and/or through Italy and its territories and possessions for interment and/or trans-shipment.
B. The Government of the United States shall be exempted from all national, local or other laws and/or regulations relating to the permits for disinterments , sanitation, upon an assurance that such work will be conducted in a manner not detrimental to public health, and from the payment of any duties, taxes or fees of any kind whatsoever for the burial, disinterment for reburial or movement of bodies or the maintenance of graves.
C. The Governement of the United States shall have the right of free entrance and exit for all personnel, supplies, transportation (air , rail , animal and/or water) serving or belonging to the United States, and the use of airfields, port facilities , warehousing, living quarters , office space, rail and water transportation and the right to employ labor in Italy, its territoires and possessions essential to the accomplishment of its mission, upon payment of just compensation thereof.
D. The Government of the United States shall have the unrestricted right to search for the remains of members of its armed forces and/or its citizens.
E. The Government of the United Stated shall have the unrestricted right, in cooperation with Italian authorities, to examine and open all records, military or civilian, which may be of assistance in locating the graves or identifying the remains of its deceased military or civilian personnel.
F. The Government of the United States shall have the right to question and examine citizens of Italy and to take affidavits in furtherance of its search for and identification of remains of members of its armed forces and/or its citizens.
Article II
The Government of Italy will render all possible assistance il locating and securing the effects of deceased military and civilian personnel of the United States and upon demand and the furnishing of a proper receipt , will turn over to representatives of the United States all effects so located and secured.
Article III
If in the future the Government of the United States wishes to establish permanent cemeteries or erect memorials in Italy, the Italian Government will exercise its power of Eminent Domain to acquire title to such sites and grant to the United States the right of use therein in perpetuity upon payment by the United States of cost compensation therefor. Any sites acquired , including improvements thereto and buildings constructed thereon , shall be exempt from any and all form of taxation, direct or indirect . The provisions of Article I , Subparagraphs A, B and C will apply in the construction and maintenance of such permanent cemeteries and memorials as may be desired.

3753

3754

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Il Ministero degli Affari Esteri, nel comunicare che il Governo Italiano approva il testo sopra riportato, dichiara pertanto di considerare concluso l'Accordo italo -americano per i Cimiteri di guerra americani in Italia e coglie l'occasione per rinnovare all'Ambasciata degli Stati Uniti d'America i sensi della sua alta considerazione.
ZOPPI . ROMA, li 24 Set. 1946 A S.E. L'Ambasciatore
degli Stati Uniti d'America Roma

Translation
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS D. G. A. POL. VIII

NOTE VERBALE

Ante, p. 3750.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the honor to acknowledge to the Embassy of the United States of America receipt of Note Verbale No. 654 of September 13 , 1946 , to which is attached the proposed Italo-American bilateral Agreement relating to arrangement of American war cemeteries in Italy, the text of which is the following :

[For the English language text of the agreement, see pp. 3752 , 3753.]

Approval by Italian

Government.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs , in announcing that the Italian

Government approves the text cited above, states consequently that

it considers as concluded the Italo-American Agreement for American

war cemeteries in Italy, and avails itself of this opportunity to renew

to the Embassy of the United States of America the assurances of its highest consideration .
ZOPPI.

Rome, September 24, 1946

His Excellency the Ambassador of the United States of America, Rome

61 STAT.]

Aug. 29, 1947 CHINA- U. S. ARMED FORCES-
Sept. 3, 1947

3755

Agreement between the United States of America and China respecting United States armed forces in China. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Nanking August 29 and September 3, 1947; entered into force September 3, 1947.

August 29, September 3, 1947
(T. I. A. S. 1715]

The American Ambassador to the Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 1109 EXCELLENCY :

AMERICAN EMBASSY Nanking, August 29, 1947

I have the honor to refer to paragraph 7 of a resolution [ ¹ ] adopted

by the United Nations General Assembly on December 14, 1946 which reads in part as follows :

"It (General Assembly) recommends the members to under-
take ... the withdrawal without delay of armed forces stationed
in the territories of members without their consent freely and pub-
licly expressed in treaties or agreements consistent with the charter ""
and not contradicting international agreements.'

My Government, desiring to fulfill the requirements of this resolution, would appreciate receiving from the Chinese Government a formal statement to the effect that all armed forces of the United States
of America stationed on Chinese territory are so stationed with the consent of the Chinese Government.

It is contemplated that this note and Your Excellency's reply thereto will constitute an agreement within the meaning of the resolution quoted above and that this agreement will be registered in due course with the United Nations.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
For the Ambassador :
WILLIAM T. TURNER
First Secretary of Embassy
1 ¹ [United Nations. Resolutions adopted by the General Assembly during the Second Part of its First Session from 23 October to 15 December 1946 , p . 66. Lake Success, 1947. ]

   

;   

     

3756

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Translation [1]  

 

 





 

 





 



       



1 [This translation was made in the American Embassy and delivered to the
Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs. ]

   

61 STAT.]

CHINA- U. S. ARMED FORCES- ASuegpt..29, 1947 3, 1947





    

 
 
   

3757

95347 °--------50-PT.IV- -27

   

    

3758

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

The Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador  
 

  : 

+  



 

   

 

( )   ... 

         

   

 

 36
18287

3759

CHINA--U.S. ARMED FORCES ASuegpt..29, 1947 3, 1947

 ·   ·.

   

  :

   EN
  

·   !            ·  ·  ·

61 STAT. ]

     ,       

3760

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

 

  
 
  


  



    ·  


61 STAT. ]

CHINA----U. S. ARMED FORCES- Aug. 29, 1947 Sept. 3. 1947

3761



 









 

3762 Ante, p. 3755.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Translation[ ¹]

No. Tiao-36 / 18287 EXCELLENCY :

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, Nanking, September 3, 1947.

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the note dated August 29, # 1109, and signed on Your Excellency's behalf, by Mr. Turner, First Secretary of the Embassy , the original text of which reads as follows :

"I have the honor to refer to paragraph 7 of a resolution adopted by the United Nations General Assembly, on December 14, 1946 which reads in part as follows :

'It (the General Assembly) recommends that the members undertake ... the withdrawal without delay of armed forces stationed in the territories of members without their consent freely and publicly expressed in treaties or agreements consistent with the charter and not contradicting international agreements. '

"My Government , desiring to fulfill the requirements of this resolution, would appreciate receiving from the Chinese Government a formal statement to the effect that all armed forces of the United
States of America stationed on Chinese territory are so stationed with the consent of the Chinese Government.
"It is contemplated that this note and Your Excellency's reply thereto will constitute an agreement within the meaning of the resolution quoted above and that this agreement will be registered in due course with the United Nations."

In reply I have the honor to make the following statement on behalf of my Government : The armed forces of the United States of America now stationed on Chinese territory are so stationed through the consent of the Chinese Government ; it is mutually understood that when either the Chinese Government or the Government of the United States considers that these armed forces of the United States of America should
be withdrawn, the armed forces must be withdrawn forthwith. Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consid-
eration . For the Minister : LIU SHIH-SHUN
His Excellency Dr. J. LEIGHTON STUART,
Ambassador of the United States of America, Nanking.
1 ' [This translation was made in the Department of State. ]

61 STAT.] UNITED KINGDOM-AID TO GREECE- July 25, 1947 Oct. 9, 1947

3763

Arrangement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting the procurement of military equipment and supplies for aid to Greece. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington July 25 and October 9, 1947; entered into force October 9, 1947.

July 25, October 9, 1947
[T. I. A. S. 1718]

The Secretary of State to the British Chargé d'Affaires ad interim DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON July 25, 1947
SIR : Due to the lapse of time between the approval of the Act to Provide
for Assistance to Greece and Turkey, effective May 22 , 1947, and the actual arrival of American military equipment and supplies in Greece, the Government of the United States wishes to establish an arrangement with the Government of the United Kingdom which would :

61 Stat., Pt. 1 , p. 103.

(1) provide for the continuation of the furnishing of such supplies and equipment by the United Kingdom as are necessary for the Greek military program until United States supplies arrive in Greece ;
(2) provide for the continued procurement by the Government of the United Kingdom of certain supplies required by the Greek Armed Forces which the Government of the United States is not now in a
position to provide from its own resources.
Pending further arrangements, the Government of the United States hereby undertakes to the extent provided in this note to pay the Government of the United Kingdom for supplies and equipment issued , and for services incident to the procurement and delivery of such supplies and equipment provided by the Government of the United Kingdom to the Government of Greece for the Greek Armed Forces after May 22, 1947. Such issues shall be deemed to include all arrivals in Greece of such supplies and equipment after May 22, 1947. Such supplies, equipment, and services shall be deemed to exclude items which the Government of the United Kingdom has agreed to provide free of charge , including

Free items.

(a ) certain initial equipment and supplies for the Greek Army provided against demands submitted before May 22, 1947 (estimated to be approximately £2,000,000 in value) ;
(b) any supplies for the Greek Air Force which were included subject to availabilities in the Order of Battle agreed with the British Air Ministry in 1946 and certain special items added thereto in 1947 ;

3764

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

(c) any other items which the Government of the United Kingdom has agreed to provide free of charge in accordance with arrangements previously made by the Government of the United Kingdom with the Greek Government or against payment by the Greek Government from funds made available by the Government of the United Kingdom for that purpose.

Pending the establishment of military and naval supply programs

in accordance with the fourth paragraph hereof, it is the understanding of the Government of the United States that the British authori-

ties concerned will issue within reasonable limits necessary supplies

and equipment based on their past experience and upon the essential

needs of the Greek Government for the maintenance of its military

forces. The Government of the United States, however, does not

undertake financial responsibility for any issues beyond such reason-

able limits. In order to assure that continuing requirements of the

Greek Armed Forces are met with respect to certain limited and vital

equipment and supplies which the Government of the United States is not now in a position to provide from its own resources, it is spe-

cifically requested that the Government of the United Kingdom continue procurement of ( 1 ) food requirements of the Greek Armed

Forces through August 31 , 1947 for 176,000 men, or such other num-

ber as may be agreed , on the same scale as now used , and ( 2 ) necessary ammunition and maintenance supplies, in quantities agreed between

American Mission for Aid to Greece.

representatives of the two Governments, for equipment of British origin now held by the Greek Armed Forces.
Personnel of the military and naval sections of the American Mission for Aid to Greece will have arrived in Greece shortly after the effective date of the Act. These representatives will cooperate with

the British military, naval, and air missions in Greece in the estima-

tion of military supply requirements which might be met from British

sources and will ordinarily request the Government of the United King-

dom through appropriate channels to supply such categories of supplies

and equipment as the War or Navy Department may deem appropriate. The Government of the United States will be financially responsible

for, but only for, all issues made by the Government of the United Kingdom against such requests. Representatives of the Government

of the United States will review with representatives of the Govern-

ment of the United Kingdom questions relating to the establishment of

the basis for prices. This note, of course, in no way affects the status

of lend - lease articles which are subject to the United States-United

60 Stat . 1525, 1539. Kingdom Military Holdings Agreement of March 27, 1946, any

transfers of which will be made without charge to the Government of quCeasntceedliltateimosn. of re- the United States. In the event that the Government of the United
States requests changes in procurement which require the cancellation

by the Government of the United Kingdom of any items previously

requested by the Government of the United States for which procurement action has been initiated, the Government of the United States

will be responsible for any financial loss to the Government of the

United Kingdom in connection therewith.

July 25, 1947

61 STAT. ]

UNITED KINGDOM-AID TO GREECEOct. 9, 1947

3765

The Government of the United States will wish to conclude more

U. K. accounts and records.

detailed understandings with respect to the pricing, methods of ac-

counting, and of payment for the equipment and supplies provided by

the Government of the United Kingdom to the Greek Government in

accordance with the paragraphs above. Pending such detailed arrangements, it is requested that the Government of the United Kingdom keep detailed accounts and records to facilitate the settlement of

accounts between the Government of the United States and the Gov-

ernment of the United Kingdom . Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration. G. C. MARSHALL
The Honorable

J. BALFOUR, K.C.M.G. , Minister Plenipotentiary, British Charge d'Affaires ad interim.

The British Ambassador to the Secretary of State

No. 548 (80/212/47)
SIR :

BRITISH EMBASSY, WASHINGTON, D.C. 9th October, 1947.

With reference to your note of the 25th July, addressed to Mr. Balfour, concerning the provision of supplies to Greece, I have the honour to inform you that the arrangements therein set out are acceptable to His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom , subject to the following considerations which are presented by His Majesty's Government for the sake of clarification only.

With regard to sub-paragraph ( a ) of the second paragraph of your note, His Majesty's Government confirm that they have undertaken to provide to the Greek Government after the 31st March, 1947 , free

military equipment and supplies to the approximate value of £2 million. A considerable proportion of the equipment and supplies forming part of this gift was delivered to the Greek Government before the 22nd May, 1947, but it is confirmed that, insofar as deliveries of initial equipment and supplies forming the balance of the gift are made after the 22nd May, 1947, against demands submitted before that date, they will be provided free by His Majesty's Government.
His Majesty's Government confirm further that they have undertaken to provide the equipment and supplies covered in the second paragraph of your note and that the aforementioned equipment and supplies constitute the total amount of assistance which His Majesty's Government have agreed to supply free of charge.
His Majesty's Government assume that the third paragraph of your note will apply to all issues made within reasonable limits against any demands submitted by the Greek authorities before the arrival of the United States Mission , excluding those covered by sub-paragraphs (a) , (b) and (c) of the second paragraph of your note, and , therefore, that

Ante, p. 3763.

3766

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

the United States Government accept liability to pay for items issued within such limits from British sources to the Greek armed forces out-

side the agreed programmes in respect of Greek demands submitted after the 22nd May but before the arrival of the United States Mission and before the agreed programmes were drawn up.
With reference to the fourth paragraph of your note, His Majesty's Government confirm that your note in no way affects the status of Lend-Lease articles which are subject to the United States-United

60 Stat. 1525, 1539.

Kingdom Military Holdings Agreement of the 27th March, 1946 , which sets out the procedure to be followed when either the re-transfer or the re-capture of such articles is to be carried out.

It is assumed that any supplies sent by His Majesty's Government to

the Greek Government for the use of the Greek civil police will be dealt

with in the same way as supplies to the Greek Army and Gendarmerie.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you the assurance of my

highest consideration.

INVERCHAPEL

The Honourable

GEORGE C. MARSHALL,

Secretary of State of the United States, Washington, D.C.

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II-OCT. 1, 1947

3767

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting American dead in World War II. Signed at Paris October 1, 1947; entered into force October 1 , 1947.

October 1, 1947 (T. I. A. 8. 1720]

AGREEMENT
CONCERNING THE INTERMENT IN FRANCE AND IN TERRITORIES OF THE
FRENCH UNION OR THE REMOVAL TO THE UNITED STATES OF THE BODIES OF AMERICAN SOLDIERS KILLED IN THE WAR OF 1939-1945
The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the French Republic, having resolved to facilitate the burial in French territory or the removal to their own country of the bodies of American soldiers killed in the war of 1939-1945, the undersigned, duly authorized for this purpose, have agreed on the following provisions:

3768

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SECTION I

Creation of permanent cemeteries and commemorative momuments called " Fields of Honor".

Article 1. The French Government grants to the Government of the United States of America, gratis , and for unlimited duration , the free disposition of the terrains situated in France and in territories of
the French Union , chosen and utilized either as permanent cemeteries for the burial of American victims of the war of 1939-1945 , or for the
construction of monuments commemorative of the exploits of the Armed Forces of the United States in the course of this same war.

However, by the terms of the decree of October 14 , 1946 , [' ] these terrains shall remain the property of the French State .
Article 2. - The location of the cemeteries and monuments shall be subject to the prior approval of the French Government.
Article 3. The free disposition specified in Article 1 allows to the Government of the United States the right to proceed with all arrange-

ments deemed necessary for the permanent cemeteries, as well as with the construction of the monuments, and of all necessary buildings and approach roads. However, the Government of the United States

shall see that the appropriated installations maintain good sanitary conditions. These arrangements and constructions shall be free of all taxation.

Article 4. The Government of the United States takes responsi-

bility for the supervision and maintenance of the cemeteries and

Cemeteries ofWorld War I.

monuments as well as for the payment of salaries and other expenses
resulting therefrom . -
Article 5. The provisions of the present Agreement relative to the
supervision , maintenance, and administration of the permanent

cemeteries and monuments are applicable to those of the war of 1914-1918 as well as to those of the war of 1939-1945 .

SECTION II

Procedure relative to the interment and exhumation

of the remains , their reinterment in France or removal to the United States.

Provisional ceme-

teries.

Article 6. - The Government of the United States may establish

and maintain, in France and in the territories of the French Union ,

provisional cemeteries and may possess the equipment necessary for

the assembling, the identification , and the provisional burial of the

remains. It may likewise proceed with the exhumation of the remains

1 [Journal Officiel de la République Française, no . 241, Oct. 14 and 15, 1946, p . 8687. ]

61 STAT.] FRANCE-AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II-OCT. 1, 1947

3769

and with their removal to permanent cemeteries for the purpose

of burial or to ports for the purpose of repatriation to the United States. These provisions may also be applicable in the case of remains brought from other countries. They will be exempt from all taxation as well as from all customs formalities or dues.
Article 7. - The Government of the United States shall not be

Permits for burial, etc.

subject to the existing laws and regulations regarding permits for

burial, exhumation and removal of the remains, but it agrees to

execute these operations in such a manner that they will not constitute

a danger to the public health and to make all necessary sanitary
arrangements toward this end .
Article 8. The French Government shall grant all facilities for

Transportation, labor, etc.

transportation, lodging of personnel , installation of offices and ware-

houses , as well as for labor to be employed in the execution of the

proposed works , provided that the previous agreement of the com-

petent French authorities be obtained and that all expenses incurred

be settled in conformity with the rates in force.

SECTION III

General Provisions

U. S. importation of Article 9. The Government of the United States may import into supplies.
France or territories of the French Union, from any country, the

material and supplies which are necessary for the execution of all

operations mentioned in the present agreement.

These materials and supplies will be admitted temporarily free of

duty under the following conditions :
a) "Materials and vehicles for transport by air, road or water imported will be placed , upon their entry into France, under Customs certificates without deposits , of two years' duration and renewable. These certificates will be returned to the Customs Service and turned

Customs cates, etc.

certifi-

in at the time of re-exportation of the material and vehicles.

b) "All consumable materials destined for the construction, the

decoration or the maintenance of tombs, cemeteries or monuments

will be subjected , at the time of their importation, to a Customs

receipt without deposit, which will be returned to the issuing officer

after having received endorsement either from the responsible director

of the American Depot for storing and sorting such material (the name of this person shall previously have been communicated to the French

customs administration) or from the municipal authority of the locality of destination or by the responsible director of the cemetery con-

cerned indicating that the material or other consumable products in

question have been put to the use for which intended.

The products included in this second category, which would no

longer be used in France, shall be re-exported or become subject to tax .

-

Freedom of entry or

Article 10. The French Government is prepared , within the departure.

framework of existing regulations, to grant complete freedom of

3770

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

movement to American personnel designated by the Government of

the United States for entrance into or departure from the territories of

Certificate ployment .

of em-

France and the French Union. Motor vehicles belonging to American personnel shall have the
privilege, upon their entry into France , of being admitted temporarily

free of duty, under customs receipts without deposit issued by the

French customs administration upon presentation of a certificate of employment signed by a duly authorized official of the American

Graves Registration Command, whose name shall previously have

been communicated to the French customs administration.

Recruitment of French laborers.

The Government of the United States may recruit and employ

locally French laborers , provided they are paid in conformance with

Foreign laborers.

the tariffs and regulations in force. Foreign laborers coming from the American Zone of Occupation in

Germany shall be employed only in the territory of metropolitan

France. They must have military status ; they must wear a uniform

and shall be subject to American military discipline as well as to

American legislation, according to conditions specified by the agreements regulating the sojourn of the American Armed Forces in France. The Government of the United States will assume entire

responsibility for these foreign workers and will take in this respect such measures as the French Government will deem indispensable ,

before their entry into French territory as well as during the course

of the period in which they are stationed on said territory. The Government of the United States agrees to assure the payment

of salaries, indemnities and costs of social security for the labor it will employ.

SECTION IV

Final Provisions

Effective date; termination.

Article 11. - The present agreement , which replaces that of August

29, 1927 , ['] shall become effective upon signature. It shall remain

in force until the two Contracting Parties terminate it by common

consent, but it can be terminated at any time, upon the desire of one

of the parties, provided that notice be given to the other party a year

in advance . Such termination shall not apply to the use of the ter-

rains utilized for permanent cemeteries and memorials , including

buildings constructed on said terrains .

Done at Paris, in duplicate, in the English and French languages, this first of October 1947 .

For the Government of the French Republic
P.-H. TEITGEN

For the Government of the United States of America
JEFFERSON CAFFERY

1 [Treaty Series 757.]

61 STAT.] FRANCE- AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II-OCT. 1, 1947

3771

ACCORD CONCERNANT L'INHUMATION EN FRANCE
ET DANS LES TERRITOIRES DE L'UNION FRANCAISE OU LE TRANSFERT AUX
ETATS-UNIS DES CORPS DES RESSORTISSANTS AMERICAINS VICTIMES DE LA GUERRE DE 1939-1945
Le Gouvernement de la République Française et le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, ayant résolu de faciliter l'inhumation en territoire français ou le transfert dans leur pays des corps des ressortissants américains victimes de la guerre de 1939-1945 , les soussignés , dûment autorisés à cet effet , sont convenus des dispositions suivantes :

3772

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

TITRE 1er.
Création de cimetières permanents ou de monuments commémoratifs dits "Champs d'Honneur" .
Article 1er.- Le Gouvernement Français accorde au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, gratuitement et sans limitation de durée, la libre disposition des terrains situés en France et dans les territoires de l'Union Française, choisis et utilisés , soit comme cimetières permanents pour la sépulture des ressortissants américains victimes de la guerre de 1939-1945 , soit pour la construction de monuments commémoratifs des hauts faits des Forces Armées des Etats-Unis au cours de cette même guerre. Toutefois, conformément aux dispositions de la Loi du 14 octobre 1946 , ces terrains demeureront la propriété de l'Etat Français.
Article 2. - L'emplacement des cimetières et monuments commémoratifs devra être soumis à l'agrément préalable du Gouvernement français .
Article 3.- La libre disposition visée à l'article 1er comporte , pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis , la faculté de procéder à tous aménagements jugés nécessaires des cimetières permanents ainsi qu'à la construction des monuments commémoratifs et de tous bâtiments et voies d'accès utiles . Toutefois, le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis veillera à ce que des installations appropriées maintiennent de bonnes conditions sanitaires.
Ces aménagements ou constructions seront exonérées de tous impôts ou taxes .
Article 4.- Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis prend à sa charge le gardiennage et l'entretien des cimetières et monuments ainsi que le paiement des salaires et autres dépenses en résultant.
Article 5.- Les dispositions du présent accord relatives à l'aménagement, à l'entretien et à l'administration des cimetières permanents et des monuments commémoratifs sont applicables à ceux de la guerre de 1914-1918 comme à ceux de la guerre de 1939-1945.

61 STAT.] FRANCE-AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II-OCT. 1, 1947
TITRE II.
Opérations relatives à l'inhumation et à l'exhumation des dépouilles, à leur réinhumation en France ou à leur transfert
aux Etats-Unis.
Article 6.- Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis pourra créer et entretenir, en France et dans les territoires de l'Union Française, des cimetières provisoires et posséder l'équipement nécessaire au rassemblement, à l'identification et à l'inhumation provisoire des dépouilles et à leur transfert dans des cimetières permanents aux fins d'inhumation ou dans des ports aux fins de rapatriement aux Etats-Unis . Ces opérations pourront s'appliquer à des dépouilles en provenance d'autres pays . Elles seront exonérées de tous impôts ou taxes ainsi que de toutes formalités ou perceptions douanières .
Article 7. Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis ne sera pas soumis aux lois et règlements applicables en matière de permis d'inhumation, d'exhumation et de transfert des dépouilles, mais il s'engage à exécuter ces opérations de telle manière qu'elles ne puissent constituer un danger pour la santé publique et à prendre toutes dispositions d'ordre sanitaire nécessaires à cette fin .
Article 8.- Le Gouvernement français accordera toutes facilités de transport, de logement du personnel, d'installations de bureaux, d'entrepôts du matériel et de main d'oeuvre pour l'exécution des travaux envisagés , sous réserve que l'accord préalable des autorités françaises compétentes soit obtenu et que tous les frais encourus soient réglés conformément aux tarifs en vigueur.
TITRE III.-
Dispositions Générales. Article 9. - Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis pourra importer en France ou dans les territoires de l'Union Française, en provenance d'un pays quelconque, le matériel et les fournitures qui sont nécessaires pour l'exécution de toutes opérations mentionnées dans le présent accord. Ces matériels et fournitures seront admis en franchise temporaire aux conditions ci-après:
a)- Le matériel et les moyens de transports aériens, routiers ou fluviaux importés seront placés , à leur entrée en France, sous le lien d'acquits de douane dispensés de caution , valables deux ans et renouvelables. Ces acquits seront remis au Service des Douanes et déchargés lors de la réexportation des matériels et véhicules.

3773

95347°-50- PT. IV- -28

3774

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

b) Toutes les matières consomptibles destinées à la construction , à la décoration ou à l'entretien des tombes, monuments ou cimetières

feront l'objet, lors de leur importation, d'un acquit de douane dispensé de caution qui sera renvoyé au bureau d'émission après avoir été revêtu , soit par le Directeur responsable du Centre américain de stockage et de répartition du matériel (le nom de cette personnalité devra avoir été préalablement communiqué à l'Administration des Douanes Françaises) , soit par l'autorité municipale de la localité de destination ou par l'autorité responsable du cimetière, d'une mention indiquant que les objets et produits en question ont bien reçu leur affectation .

Les produits rentrant dans cette deuxième catégorie, qui ne seraient

plus utilisés en France, devront être réexportés ou soumis aux droits .

Article 10.

Le Gouvernement français est disposé, dans le cadre

de la règlementation en vigueur, à accorder toutes facilités de circulation au personnel américain désigné par le Gouvernement des Etats-

Unis pour l'entrée en France et dans les territoires de l'Union Française et la sortie desdits territoires.

Les voitures automobiles appartenant en propre au personnel

américain bénéficieront, à leur entrée en France, du régime de l'impor-

tation temporaire, sous la garantie d'un acquit-à-caution délivré par l'Administration des Douanes Françaises sur simple production d'un

certificat d'emploi, établi par une autorité compétente du Service des

Sépultures américaines, dont le nom devra avoir été préalablement communiqué à l'Administration des Douanes Françaises.
Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis pourra recruter et employer sur

place de la main d'oeuvre française sous réserve de la rétribuer conformément aux tarifs et règlements en vigueur.
La main d'oeuvre étrangère en provenance de la zone américaine

d'occupation en Allemagne ne pourra être employée que sur le territoire de la France Métropolitaine . Elle devra avoir le statut militaire,

être assujettie au port de l'uniforme et être soumise à la discipline militaire américaine, ainsi qu'à la législation américaine dans les con-

ditions prévues par les accords réglant le séjour des Forces Armées américaines en France. Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis assumera

l'entière responsabilité de ces travailleurs étrangers et prendra à leur égard toutes les mesures que le Gouvernement français jugera indispensables tant avant leur entrée en territoire français qu'au cours de la période où ils seront stationnés sur ledit territoire .

Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis s'engage à assurer le paiement des

salaires, indemnités et charges de sécurité sociale concernant la main d'oeuvre qu'il emploiera.

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II-OCT. 1, 1947

TITRE IV.-

Dispositions finales.

Article 11.- Le présent accord , qui remplace celui du 29 août 1927 , entrera en vigueur dès sa signature. Il restera en vigueur, jusqu'à ce que les deux Hautes Parties Contractantes y mettent fin d'un commun accord, mais il pourra être dénoncé en tout temps sur le désir de l'une d'elles, moyennant avis donné à l'autre un an à l'avance. Cette dénonciation ne portera pas sur l'usage des terrains utilisés pour les cimetières permanents et monuments commémoratifs, y compris les bâtiments construits sur lesdits terrains.
Fait en double exemplaire, l'un en français l'autre en anglais./.

Pour le Gouvernement des d'Amérigne

is, le ler

1947

oroctobre:

Pour le Gouvernement

de la République Française.



Copie certifiée conforme à l'original conserve u Archives dú Ministère
de Affaires Etrangères .

Paris , le 14 Février 1948 . MINISTRE PLÈ '{ POTENTIAIRE EF DU SERVICE DES ARCHIVES 

DE S

AFFAIRES Frisy

ETRANGS

amcitieomnicy AMÉDÉE OUTREY( ¹)

¹ [ Translation : Copy certified in conformity with the original kept in the Archives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs .
PARIS, February 14, 1948. Minister Plenipotentiary Chief of Archives Service
Amédée Outrey AMÉDÉE OUTREY]

3775

3776

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Aubgeurst4, 159, , 16S,e1p9t4e7m[T. I. A. S. 1721]

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting passport visa fees , replacing the agreement of December 10, 1946. Effected by exchanges of notes dated at Washington August 19 and September 4, 5, and 16, 1947; entered into force September 16, 1947.

The French Embassy to the Department of State

JS/DH

AMBASSADE DE FRANCE AUX ETATS-UNIS

No. 340 SCA 4-1

WASHINGTON, le

L'Ambassade de France présente ses compliments au Département d'Etat et a l'honneur de lui exposer ce qui suit:

Le Gouvernement Français ayant revisé son tarif général des actes de chancellerie souhaite conclure avec le Gouvernement des Etats-
Unis un nouvel accord de réciprocité, remplaçant l'accord du 10 Décembre 1946 et dont les stipulations seraient en harmonie avec les nouvelles dispositions édictées en France.

Le nouveau tarif prévoit trois catégories de visas:
- d'un jour à trois mois -- d'un an, valable pour plusieurs séjours n'excédant pas trois mois
chacun

- de plus de trois mois , permettant en fait un séjour permanent , les étrangers séjournant plus de trois mois en France devant se faire délivrer une carte d'identité valable trois ans et renouvelable.

Dans ces conditions le Gouvernement Français propose un accord sur les bases suivantes:

Visa de court séjour valable d'un jour à trois mois 325 francs ($2.75)

Visa valable un an, pour plusieurs voyages, chaque séjour n'ex-

cédant pas trois mois

500 francs ($4.20)

Visa d'établissement de plus de trois mois

1200 francs ($ 10.08)

L'Ambassade serait reconnaissante au Département d'Etat de bien vouloir lui faire savoir s'il est d'accord avec ces propositions . Si celles-ci sont acceptées , elles pourront faire l'objet d'un échange de notes à une date très prochaine de manière à ce que le nouvel accord puisse entrer en vigueur à la date du 1er Octobre 1947./.

L'Ambassade saisit l'occasion de la présente pour renouveler au Département d'Etat les assurances de sa très hautes considération.
J. S. Washington, le 19 aout 1947. DÉPARTEMENT D'ETAT Washington, D.C.

61 STAT.] FRANCE-PASSPORT VISA FEES- Aug. 19, 1947 Sept. 4, 5, 16, 1947

3777

JS/DH EMBASSY OF FRANCE IN THE UNITED STATES No. 340 SCA 4-1

Translation

WASHINGTON

The Embassy of France presents its compliments to the Department of State and has the honor to inform it of the following :

The French Government, having revised its schedule of rates for chancelry services, is desirous of concluding with the Government of the United States a new reciprocal agreement replacing the Agreement of December 10 , 1946 , the stipulations of the new agreement to be in harmony with the new provisions decreed in France.

61 Stat., Pt. 3, p. 2795.

The new schedule of rates provides for three categories of visas:

For from one day to three months
For one year, valid for any number of stays, each stay not to exceed three months
For more than three months, allowing, in fact, a permanent stay, it being required that foreigners staying in France more than three months present an identification card which is valid for three years and which is renewable .

Subject to those conditions , the French Government proposes an agreement on the following bases :

Visa for a short stay valid for from one day to three months 325 francs ($2.75)

Visa valid for one year, for several trips , each stay not to exceed

three months

500 francs ($4.20)

Visa for establishing residence for more than three months 1,200 francs ($ 10.08)

The Embassy would be very grateful if the Department of State would be good enough to inform the Embassy whether it is in agreement with these proposals . If the latter are accepted , they may constitute the subject of an exchange of notes at a date in the very near future, with the result that the new agreement may come into effect on October 1 , 1947.
The Embassy avails itself of the occasion of the present note to renew to the Department of State the assurances of its very high consideration .
J. S.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, August 19, 1947.

Washington, D.C.

3778

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Acting Secretary of State to the French Ambassador

The Acting Secretary of State presents his compliments to His

Excellency the Ambassador of France and has the honor to refer to the

Embassy's note no . 340 SCA 4-1 dated August 19 , 1947 suggesting a

61 Stat. , Pt . 3, p. 2795. revision of the agreement dated December 10 , 1946 relating to visa

fees for nonimmigrants .

Fees for visa of

American passport.

The note referred to suggests that on and after October 1 , 1947 the

following visa fees be prescribed for the visa of a valid American

passport covering the persons included therein proceeding to France or any of its possessions:

A visa valid for one entry during a period of one year permitting a stay of from one day to three months , 325 francs (equivalent to $2.75) ;
A visa valid for any number of entries during a period of one year permitting a stay, on each entry , not to exceed three months, 500 francs (equivalent to $4.20) ;
A visa valid for any number of entries during a period of one year permitting a stay, on each entry , of over three months, 1200 francs (equivalent to $ 10.08) .

Fees for French nationals.

The proposal referred to is agreeable to the United States Government.
It is contemplated that on and after October 1 , 1947 the following visa fees will be prescribed for collection in the case of French nationals

holding valid passports proceeding to the United States or any of its

possessions :

A transit visa valid for one entry during a period of one year from the date of issuance , $2.75 ;
A nonimmigrant passport visa valid for one or more entries during the period of one year permitting a stay in the United States upon each entry for such period as may be indicated by the immigration authorities, $4.25 ;
An immigration visa, $ 10.00.

It will be appreciated if the Department may be informed whether the proposal referred to is agreeable to the French Government in order that appropriate notification may be sent to American missions and consular offices regarding the fees to be collected on and after October 1 , 1947 in the cases of French nationals proceeding to the United States and its possessions.
GJH

DEPARTMENT OF STATE, Washington, September 4, 1947.

61 STAT. ]

FRANCE-PASSPORT VISA FEES- Aug. 19, 1947 Sept. 4, 5, 16, 1947

3779

The French Embassy to the Department of State
MC/DH AMBASSADE DE FRANCE
AUX ETATS-UNIS

No. 366 SCA 4-1

WASHINGTON, le

L'Ambassade de France présente ses compliments au Département d'Etat et a l'honneur, comme suite à sa note No. 340 du 19 Août dernier, de faire savoir au Département d'Etat qu'à la demande de l'Ambassade des Etats-Unis à Paris le Gouvernement français est prêt à prévoir une catégorie supplémentaire de visa, valable deux ans pour plusieurs voyages, chacun n'excédant pas trois mois. Ce visa com-
porterait un droit double et serait par conséquent de 1000 francs ($8.40). Dans ces conditions l'accord que le Gouvernement français proposait par la note précitée serait sur les bases suivantes:

Visa de court séjour valable d'un jour à trois mois 325 francs ($2.75)

Visa valable un an, pour plusieurs voyages, chaque séjour n'excédant

pas trois mois

500 francs ($4.20)

Visa pour deux ans pour plusieurs voyages, chaque séjour n'excé-

dant pas trois mois

1000 francs ($8.40)

Visa d'établissement de plus de trois mois

1200 francs ($ 10.08 )

L'Ambassade serait reconnaissante au Département d'Etat de bien vouloir lui faire savoir s'il est d'accord avec ces propositions./.
MC

L'Ambassade saisit l'occasion de la présente note pour renouveler au Département d'Etat les assurances de sa très haute considération.

DÉPARTEMENT D'ETAT Washington, D.C.

Washington, le 5 septembre 1947.

MC/DH EMBASSY OF FRANCE IN THE UNITED STATES
No. 366 SCA 4-1

Translation

WASHINGTON

The Embassy of France presents its compliments to the Department of State and, in reference to its note No. 340 of August 19 last , has the honor to inform the Department of State that at the request of the Embassy of the United States at Paris the French Government is prepared to provide a supplementary category for a visa valid for two years for any number of entries , each stay not to exceed three months. Such visa would call for a double fee and, consequently,

Ante, p. 3776.

3780

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

would cost 1,000 francs ($ 8.40) . Under such conditions , the agreement which the French Government proposed by the above-mentioned note would be on the following bases :

Visa for a short stay valid for from one day to three months 325 francs ($2.75)

Visa valid for one year, for any number of entries , each stay not to

exceed three months

500 francs ($4.20)

Visa for two years for any number of entries , each stay not to ex-

ceed three months

1,000 francs ($ 8.40)

Visa for a stay of more than three months 1,200 francs ($ 10.08)

The Embassy would be grateful if the Department of State would be good enough to inform the Embassy whether it is in agreement with these proposals .
MC

The Embassy avails itself of the occasion of the present note to renew to the Department of State the assurances of its very high consideration.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, September 5, 1947.

Washington, D.C.

The Secretary of State to the French Ambassador

The Secretary of State presents his compliments to His Excellency

Ante, p. 3778. Ante, p. 3779.

the Ambassador of France and has the honor to refer to the Department's note of September 4 , 1947, and to the Embassy's note no. 366 SCA 4-1 dated September 5, 1947 , relating to visa fees for nonim-

U. S. acceptance of proposal.

migrants . The Government of the United States of America accepts the
proposal referred to in the Embassy's note of September 5, 1947 upon

a reciprocal basis and , accordingly, American consular officers have

daVties. a fees; effective been informed that effective October 1 , 1947 the following visa fees

have been prescribed for the visa of a valid American or French

passport :

Holders of American passports.

For holders of American passports entering France or any of its possessions -

1. Visa valid for one entry during a period of one year permitting a stay of from one day to three months, 325 francs ;
2. Visa valid for any number of entries during a period of one year permitting a stay, on each entry, not to exceed three months, 500 francs ;

3. Visa valid for any number of entries during a period of two years permitting a stay, on each entry, not to exceed three months, 1,000 francs;

4. Visa valid for any number of entries during a period of two years permitting a stay, on each entry, of over three months, 1,200 francs ;

61 STAT. ]

FRANCE-PASSPORT VISA FEES- Aug. 19, 1947 Sept. 4, 5, 16, 1947

3781

For holders

of French

passports

entering the

United

States or

Holders passports.

of

French

any of its possessions -

1. Transit visa valid for one application for entry during a period of one year from the date of issuance, $ 2.75 ;

2. Nonimmigrant passport visa valid for one or more applications for entry during a period of one year ; the stay in the United States upon each entry will be for such period as may be fixed by the immigration authorities, $4.25 ;

3. Nonimmigrant passport visa valid for one or more applications for entry during a period of two years ; the stay in the United States upon each entry will be for such period as may be fixed by the immigration authorities , $ 8.50 .

The immigration visa fee remains unchanged.

GJH

DEPARTMENT OF STATE, Washington, September 16, 1947.

The French Embassy to the Department of State

AMBASSADE DE FRANCE AUX ETATS-UNIS

MC/DH No. 387 SCA 4-1

WASHINGTON, le

L'Ambassade de France présente ses compliments au Département d'Etat et a l'honneur de se référer à la note du Département d'Etat du 16 Septembre 1947 concernant un nouvel accord de réciprocité pour le tarif des visas de passeport remplaçant celui du 10 Décembre 1946 .
L'Ambassade de France a l'honneur de faire savoir au Département
d'Etat que le Gouvernement français accepte les propositions contenues dans la note précitée et que le tarif suivant sera appliqué, aussitôt que les autorités consulaires françaises auront pu recevoir les instructions nécessaires, pour les visas de passeport valables de citoyens américains entrant en France ou dans les possessions française -

1. Visa valable pour une entrée pendant une période d'un an

permettant un séjour d'un jour à trois mois

325 francs

2. Visa valable pour un nombre non limité d'entrées pendant une

période d'un an permettant un séjour, à chaque entrée, n'ex-

cédant pas trois mois

500 francs

3. Visa valable pour un nombre non limité d'entrées pendant une

période de deux ans permettant un séjour, à chaque entrée,

n'excédant pas trois mois

1000 francs

4. Visa valable pour plusieurs entrées pendant une période de

deux ans permettant un séjour, à chaque entrée, de plus de

trois mois

1,200 francs

3782

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Les porteurs de passeports français entrant aux Etats-Unis ou dans les possessions américaines, acquitteront les droits suivants:

1. Visa de transit valable pour une entrée pendant une période

d'un an à partir de la date de délivrance

$2.75

2. Visa de passeport pour non-immigrant valable une ou plusieurs

fois pour l'entrée pendant une période d'un an ; le séjour aux

Etats-Unis à chaque entrée sera pour telle période que fixerait

les autorités d'immigration,

$4.25

3. Visa de passeport pour non-immigrant valable une ou plusieurs

fois pour l'entrée pendant une période de deux ans ; le séjour

aux Etats-Unis à chaque entrée sera pour telle période que

fixerait les autorités d'immigration,

$8.50

Le visa d'immigrant reste inchangé./.

L'Ambassade de France saisit l'occasion de la présente note pour
renouveler au Département d'Etat les assurances de sa très haute considération.

DÉPARTEMENT D'ETAT

Washington, le 16 Septembre 1947. FL

Washington, D.C.

EMBASSY OF FRANCE IN THE UNITED STATES MC/DH No. 387 SCA 4-1

Translation WASHINGTON

Ante, p. 3780.

The Embassy of France presents its compliments to the Department of State and has the honor to refer to the note of the Department of State dated September 16 , 1947 concerning a new reciprocal agree-

ment relating to passport visa fees , replacing that of December 10 , 61 Stat., Pt. 3, p.2795. 1946 .

The Embassy of France has the honor to inform the Department of State that the French Government accepts the proposals contained in the above-mentioned note and that the following fees will be prescribed as soon as the French consular authorities can receive the necessary instructions for valid passport visas of American citizens entering France or the French possessions.

1. Visa valid for one entry during a period of one year permitting

a stay of from one day to three months

325 francs

2. Visa valid for any number of entries during a period of one

year permitting a stay, on each entry, not to exceed three

months

500 francs

3. Visa valid for any number of entries during a period of two

years permitting a stay, on each entry, not to exceed three

months

1,000 francs

4. Visa valid for any number of entries during a period of two years permitting a stay, on each entry, of over three months 1,200 francs

61 STAT. ]

FRANCE-PASSPORT VISA FEES- Aug. 19 , 1947 Sept. 4, 5, 16, 1947

For holders of French passports entering the United States or any of its possessions :

1. Transit visa valid for one application for entry during a period

of one year from the date of issuance

$2.75

2. Nonimmigrant passport visa valid for one or more applications for entry during a period of one year ; the stay in the United

States upon each entry will be for such period as may be fixed

by the immigration authorities

$4.75

3. Nonimmigrant passport visa valid for one or more applications

for entry during a period of two years ; the stay in the United

States upon such entry will be for such period as may be fixed

by the immigration authorities

$8.50

The immigration visa fee remains unchanged.

The Embassy of France avails itself of the occasion of the present note to renew to the Department of State the assurances of its very high consideration .
Washington, September 16, 1947. FL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE , Washington, D.C.

3783

3784

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

August 5, 1944 [T. I. A. S. 1722]

Agreement between the United States of America and other governments respecting principles having reference to the continuance of co-ordinated control of shipping. Signed at London August 5, 1944 ; entered into force May 24, 1945.
AGREEMENT ON PRINCIPLES HAVING REFERENCE TO THE CONTINUANCE OF CO-ORDINATED CONTROL OF MERCHANT SHIPPING.

THE undersigned representatives , duly authorised by their respective Governments or Authorities, hereinafter referred to as contracting Governments, have agreed as follows :-

Common responsibility.

1. The contracting Governments declare that they accept as a com-

mon responsibility the provision of shipping for all military and other

tasks necessary for , and arising out of, the completion of the war in

Europe and the Far East and for the supplying of all the liberated

areas as well as of the United Nations generally and territories under

their authority.

Maintenance of powers of control.

2. The contracting Governments undertake to continue to maintain

such powers of control over all ships which are registered in their

territories or are otherwise under their authority as will enable them

effectively to direct each ship's employment in accordance with the

foregoing declaration . Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 3

and 9, this control shall continue to be exercised by each contracting

Government through the mechanism of requisitioning for use or title.

3. The contracting Governments agree not to release from control

any ships under their authority or permit them to be employed in any

non-essential services or for any non -essential cargo unless the total

overall tonnage is in excess of the total overall requirements, and then

only in accordance with a mutually acceptable formula which shall

not discriminate against the commercial shipping interests of any

nation and shall extend to all contracting Governments an equitable

opportunity for their respective tonnages to engage in commercial trades.

4. Neutral Governments having ships under their control in excess of the tonnage required to carry on their essential import requirements shall be invited to subscribe to obligations in respect of all their ships which shall ensure that their employment is in conformity with the general purposes of the United Nations.

5. The contracting Governments undertake to exercise control over the facilities for shipping available in their territories, by suitable measures on the lines of the United States and British Ship Warrant Schemes, and to take such other measures as may be necessary to secure

that ships under all flags are used in conformity with the purposes of

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL- SHIPPING-AUG. 5, 1944

3785

the United Nations. Other Governments acceding hereto shall give a similar undertaking.

6. Without prejudice to questions of disposition or title, the employment of such ships as may at any time be permitted to operate under enemy flag or authority shall be determined to serve the requirements of the United Nations.

7.- (a) In order that the allocation of all ships under United Nations control may continue to be effectively determined to meet the requirements of the United Nations, a central authority shall be established , to come into operation upon the general suspension of hostilities with Germany. The central authority shall be organised in accordance with the plan agreed in the Annex.

Central authority.

(b) The central authority shall determine the employment of ships for the purpose of giving effect to the responsibilities assumed by each contracting Government in paragraph 1 to provide the tonnage required from time to time to meet

current requirements for ships for the military and other purposes of the United Nations, and ships shall be allocated for those purposes by those Governments in accordance with the decisions of the central authority. So far as is consistent with the efficient overall use of shipping as deter-

mined by the central authority for those purposes, and with

the provisions of paragraph 7 ( c ) , each contracting Gov-

ernment may allocate ships under its own authority, wholly

or partly to cover the essential import requirements of

territories for which it has special shipping responsibilities. (c) In general, ships under the flag of one of the contracting
Governments shall be under the control of the Government

Ships under flag of contracting Govern-
ment .

of that flag, or the Government to which they have been chartered.
In order to meet the special case of military requirements Ships assigned to military requirements.
those ships which have been taken up, under agreements made by the United States Government and/or United Kingdom Government with the other Governments having authority for those ships, for use as troopships, hospital ships, and for other purposes in the service of the armed forces, shall remain on charter as at present to the War Shipping Administration and/or the Ministry of War Transport as the case may be, under arrangements to be agreed between the Governments severally concerned. (Any further ships required for such purposes shall be dealt with in a like manner.)
The fact that these ships are assigned to military requirements shall not prejudice the right of the Governments concerned to discuss with the central authority the measures to be taken to provide shipping for their essential requirements within the scope of paragraph 1.

3786

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Information.
Terms of remuneration .

(d) The contracting Governments shall supply to one another, through the central authority, all information necessary to the effective working of the arrangements, e.g., regarding programmes, employment of tonnage, and projected programmes, subject to the requirement of military secrecy.
(e ) The central authority shall also initiate the action to be taken to give effect to paragraph 5 and shall direct action under paragraph 6.
(f) The terms of remuneration to be paid by the users (Government or private ) of ships shall be determined by the central authority on a fair and reasonable basis in such manner as to give effect to the following two basic principles :-

(i ) Ships of all flags performing the same or similar services should charge the same freights.

(ii ) Ships must be employed as required without regard to financial considerations.

Applicability of

principles.

8. The principles herein agreed shall apply to all types of merchant

ships, irrespective of size, including passenger ships, tankers and whale

factories when not used for whaling (but paragraph 7 ( 6 ) will not be

applicable to ships engaged in coastal trades and short trades between

nearby countries, the arrangements for control of which shall be ap-

Entry into force.

propriate to meet the requirements prevailing in each particular area) . The principles shall also be applied to the extent necessary, through
suitable machinery, to fishing vessels, whale catchers, and other similar craft in those areas where special measures in respect of such craft are agreed to be necessary. A special authority shall be set up capable of apportioning between naval and commercial services such craft as are available in those areas.
9. The foregoing principles shall take effect on the coming into operation of the central authority, and shall remain in effect for a period not extending beyond six months after the general suspension of hostilities in Europe or the Far East, whichever may be the later, unless it is unanimously agreed among the Governments represented on the duly authorised body of the central authority that any or all of the agreed principles may be terminated or modified earlier. [ ¹]

Done in London on the 5th day of August, 1944.

For the Government of Belgium : A. BALTHAZAR

For the Government of Canada :
VINCENT MASSEY A. L MACCALLUM
1 ¹ [Entered into force May 24, 1945 ; terminated Mar. 2, 1946. ]

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL- SHIPPING-AUG. 5, 1944

For the Royal Hellenic Government : G VASSILIADIS

For the Government of the Netherlands: JM DE BOOY

For the Government of Norway : ARNE SUNDE.

For the Government of the Republic of Poland : J. KWAPINSKI.

For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland : LEATHERS

For the Government of the United States of America : PHILIP D. REED HUNTINGTON T. MORSE WALTER A RADIUS JOHN M. ALLISON
For the French Committee of National Liberation :

ANNEX .
Organisation of the Central Authority.
1. The central authority shall consist of(a) A Council ( United Maritime Council ) . (b ) An Executive Board ( United Maritime Executive Board) .
(a) The United Maritime Council.
2. Each contracting Government shall be represented on the Council. Membership of the Council shall also be open to all other Governments, whether of the United Nations or of neutral countries, which desire to accede and are prepared to accept the obligations of contracting Governments. [¹]
3. The Council shall meet when deemed necessary and at least twice a year at such places as may be convenient. Meetings shall be arranged by the Executive Board. The Council shall elect its own Chairman and determine its own procedure. The meetings of the Council are intended to provide the opportunity for informing the contracting Governments as to the overall shipping situation and to make possible the interchange of views between the contracting Governments on
1 [The Governments of Australia, Brazil, Chile, Denmark, France, India, New Zealand, Sweden, Union of South Africa, and Yugoslavia acceded to the agree ment. ]

3787

3788

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
general questions of policy arising out of the working of the Executive Board.
(b) The United Maritime Executive Board.
4. The Executive Board shall be established with Branches in Wash-ington and London under War Shipping Administration and Ministry of War Transport chairmanship respectively.
5. The Executive Board shall exercise through its Branches the executive functions of the central authority. Appropriate machinery under the two Branches shall be established for the purpose of enabling them to discharge the functions described in paragraph 7 of the Agreement on Principles. Machinery to carry out the arrangements under paragraph 8 of that Agreement as regards ships engaged in coasting and short sea trades, and as regards small craft shall be set up under the Executive Board.
6. The division of day-to-day responsibility between the two Branches of the Executive Board shall be established as convenient from time to time. So that the two Branches of the Executive Board may work in unison, meetings of the Executive Board as a whole shall be arranged at the instance of the two chairmen, as often as may be necessary, and at such place as may be convenient from time to time.
7. The membership of the Executive Board shall be restricted in numbers. By reason of their large experience in shipping normally engaged in international trade, and their large contribution of ships for the common purpose, the following Governments shall be represented on the Executive Board :-
Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ;
Government of the United States of America ; Government of the Netherlands ; Government of Norway.
It shall be open to the members of the Executive Board to recommend to contracting Governments additions to the membership of the Executive Board as circumstances may require in order to promote the effective working of the central authority.
8. Each contracting Government not represented on the Executive Board shall be represented by an associate member who shall be consulted by, and entitled to attend meetings of, the Executive Board or its Branches on matters affecting ships under the authority of that Government, or on matters affecting the supply of ships for the territories under the authority of that Government.
9. The Executive Board and its Branches shall proceed by agreement among the members. There shall be no voting.
10. The decisions of the Executive Board affecting the ships under the authority of any contracting Government shall be reached with the consent of that Government, acting through its representative on the Executive Board or through its associate member, as the case may be.

61 STAT.]

MULTILATERAL- SHIPPING-AUG. 5, 1944

3789

11. The Executive Board shall be the duly authorised body for the

purpose of paragraph 9 of the Agreement on Principles, but it is understood that no decision reached under that paragraph by the

Ante, p. 3786.

Governments represented on the Executive Board shall impose any

new or greater obligation on any other contracting Government without its express consent.
12. A Planning Committee shall be set up to begin work in London as soon as possible after the signature of the Agreement on Principles

Planning Committee.

for the purpose of working out on a basis satisfactory to the contract-

ing Governments the details of the machinery required to enable the

Executive Board to discharge its functions, including the functions under paragraph 7 (f) . Any contracting Government may be repre-

Ante, p. 3786.

sented on the Planning Committee.

13. The Executive Board shall have the full use of the machinery

and procedure of the War Shipping Administration and Ministry of

War Transport in order to avoid duplication.

14. The contracting Governments shall nominate their representa-

tives on the Planning Committee to the Governments of the United

States and the United Kingdom, as soon as practicable. They shall

also so nominate their representatives as members or as associate mem-

bers of the Executive Board as the case may be. The Governments of

the United States and the United Kingdom shall be responsible, in

consultation with the other contracting Governments concerned , for

determining the date of coming into operation of the central authority in accordance with paragraph 7 ( a) of the Agreement on Principles.

Ante, p. 3785.

95347-50-PT. IV- 29

61 STAT.]

MULTILATERAL- SHIPPING- FEB. 11, 1946

3791

Agreement between the United States of America and other governments respecting shipping arrangements and recommendations ofthe United Maritime Executive Board. Dated at London February 11, 1946; entered into force March 3, 1946.

February 11, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1723]

U.M.E.B. 4/16.
UNITED MARITIME EXECUTIVE BOARD Fourth Session
RECOMMENDATIONS TO CONTRACTING GOVERNMENTS Note by the Secretariat
1. Appended is a copy of the Recommendations as approved by the Board at its final meeting on 11th February.
2. Delegates are asked to draw the attention of their Governments to the desirability of notifying their acceptance at the earliest possible date.
11th February, 1946.

3792

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

RECOMMENDATIONS

Ante, p. 3784.

The United Maritime Executive Board during its Fourth and final Session being unanimously of the opinion that the return to normal processes of international shipping should not be retarded nevertheless recognizes that certain difficulties and problems might arise in the shipping situation after the termination on March 2nd next of the Agreement on Principles of August, 1944, and believes that it would be desirable for Governments to take measures during a limited transitional period to the end that such problems might be resolved and difficulties minimised. Accordingly they have agreed upon the following Recommendations for the consideration of contracting Governments :-
PART "A"

1. That all nations who have regularly contributed tonnage to the common tasks shall continue to provide shipping for the common tasks of relief and rehabilitation.

Arrangements for dry cargo from U.S. and Canadian Loading Areas.

tioCnosntCroimbmuittotreye. Na 2. That a Contributory Nations Committee consisting of representatives of nations contributing tonnage to provide shipping space for relief and rehabilitation programmes from the United States and Canada shall be established in Washington.

Post, p. 3793.

3. That UNRRA [ ¹ ] and liberated nations requiring assistance from the Contributory Pool referred to in (4) below, shall programme their shipping requirements and submit them to the Washington Committee established in (2) above. The procedure to be followed is set out in the Appendix.

Contributory Pool. 4. That at the outset of the agreement each contributory nation shall declare to the Washington Committee the maximum and minimum monthly sailings or tonnage it will contribute for the period of the agreement. The tonnage thus contributed is referred to herein as the Contributory Pool.

Arrangements for dry cargo from other Loading Areas.
ReCvoi-eowrdCionamtmiintgteaen. d 5. That a Co-ordinating and Review Committee representative of Nations accepting Part "A" of this agreement shall be set up in London. 1 ¹ [United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration. ]

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL- SHIPPING-FEB. 11, 1946

This Committee :

( a) shall consider U.N.R.R.A.'s requirements for loading in areas other than the United States and Canada. The nations ac-
cepting Part "A" of this agreement recognise the necessity for meeting such requirements to the best of their ability and through their representatives on the Committee shall co-ordinate the provision of tonnage they are able to make available for these programmes.

(b) shall keep the tonnage situation in loading areas other than the United States and Canada constantly under review. Recognising the necessity for an adequate supply of tonnage for loading in these areas the nations represented shall authorise the Committee to consider and recommend the measures that should be taken to assist the fulfilment of the programmes affected in the event that normal commercial channels are failing to ensure an adequate supply of tonnage.

3793

General
Procurement ofton6. That nations needing shipping assistance other than that secured nage. from the Contributory Pool , shall make suitable arrangements for the procurement of tonnage through commercial channels or may request it from other nations. The nations from whom tonnage is requested shall make all reasonable efforts to make available the requested ship-
ping space at fair, reasonable and compensatory rates, subject to the reservation that they need not supply such tonnage if it is to be used in a manner contrary to the interests of the nation upon whom the request has been made.

APPENDIX TO PART 'A'

1. To maintain without interruption the maximum flow of relief and rehabilitation cargoes from the United States and Canada, a Contrib-

utory Nations' Committee shall be established in Washington as provided in (2 ) of Part "A".
2. With respect to loadings from Canadian ports, the Washington Committee shall collaborate with a Canadian Sub-Committee to be established in Montreal.

Collaboration with Canadian Sub- Com-
mittee.

3. U.N.R.R.A. and each liberated Nation requiring shipping assistance for the carriage of such cargoes, shall submit to this Committee by the 1st of each month, its total programme of cargo loadings in the

Program of cargo loadings.

United States and Canada showing the number of coal, grain or other

full, bulk cargoes, and the number of general cargoes programmed

for loading during the following month, and estimates in the same

form for the next two months. The programme for the specific month

should also show the number, nationality, and total cargo capacity

of vessels already available to the programming claimant for loading

during that month.

3794

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Notice of available 4. By the 10th of each month each contributing Nation shall notify tonnage.
the Committee as to the amount of tonnage that it expects to have

Ante, p. 3792.

available, such tonnage to be within the maxima and minima as agreed in accordance with (4) of Part "A", and by the 15th of each month

shall confirm the actual tonnage to be supplied against the following

month's requirements , such tonnage to be stated separately in liner

sailings and in tramps.

5. In arranging and determining the amount of tonnage to be provided under 4 of this Appendix, individual members of the Committee shall at all times communicate direct with their respective Nations , who shall, in considering requests for tonnage to load in the United States and Canada, make every effort to avoid causing a deficiency in the supply of tonnage required for other loading areas.

6. To meet each month's berthing requirements in the United States, the Committee shall allocate all of the agreed available tonnage through the established machinery of the War Shipping Administration , so that appropriate co-ordination with respect to loading facilities, inland transportation and availability of cargoes may be secured and the maximum flow of cargo for the month achieved , together with the most efficient use of the shipping available.

PART "B"

7. That : -

United Maritime Consultative Council.

(A) accepting Governments should meet periodically for discus-

sions in a United Maritime Consultative Council for the purpose of

exchanging information to the end that individual governments may be enabled to frame their own policies in the post-UMA period in the light of the knowledge of the policies of other governments.
(B) the Council may undertake the consideration and study, for the purpose of making appropriate recommendations to member governments, of any problems in the international shipping field, which may be referred to it and which do not come within the terms of reference of other established governmental conferences or associations active in the field.

Meetings.

(C) it is the intention that the shipping industry should collaborate and assist in devising ways and means to implement the common objectives stated in (A) and ( B ) .
(D) meetings of the Council should be held at such times and places as the Council may determine. A chairman for each meeting should be designated by the Government of the nation where such meeting is to be held. The Council should determine its own procedure.
(E ) the United Maritime Consultative Council should have no executive powers.

Ante, p. 3792.

( F) this part of the agreement should be open for acceptance by governments whether or not they accept Part "A".

61 STAT.]

MULTILATERAL- SHIPPING-FEB. 11, 1946 PART "C"

3795

8. That the arrangements in Parts "A" and "B" shall remain in effect from 3rd March until 31st October, 1946, unless by unanimous consent of the Governments accepting the respective Parts it is decided to terminate them at an earlier date.
Notification of ac9. That Governments accepting the recommendations in Part "A " ceptance. and/or Part "B" shall notify their acceptance to the U. S. and U. K. Governments at the earliest possible date and that, as between the Governments notifying their acceptance, the relevant recommendations shall be regarded as an agreement for the period stated in recommendation 8. [¹]
10. That other Governments requesting information should be informed of these recommendations to the end that they may participate,
if they so desire, by notifying their acceptance of Part "A" and/or part "B", in accordance with recommendation 9.

The Secretary of State to the British Ambassador

The Secretary of State presents his compliments to His Excellency the Ambassador of Great Britain and has the honor to inform the

Government of the United Kingdom that the United States of America has accepted Parts "A" and "B" of the recommendations to contracting Governments appended to a document entitled "U.M.E.B. 4/16 United Maritime Executive Board, Fourth Session, Recommendations to Contracting Governments, Note by the Secretariat ", which recommendations were adopted by the United Maritime Executive Board on February 11 , 1946 at its Fourth Session in London.
The Secretary of State understands that in accordance with paragraph 9 of Part "C" of the recommendations referred to above, the relevant recommendations shall be regarded as agreed to from March 3, 1946 until October 31 , 1946 , unless by unanimous consent of the Governments accepting the respective Parts it is decided to terminate them at an earlier date.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, March 5, 1946.

JES

1 ¹ [ The Governments of the following countries accepted the recommendations : Australia, Belgium ( with reservation ) , Brazil, Canada, Chile, Denmark, France,
Greece, India, Netherlands, New Zealand , Norway, Poland, Sweden ( with reserva-
tion ) , Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, and the United States. ]

U. S. acceptance. Ante, pp. 3792, 3794. Ante, p. 3791.

3796

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

October 30, 1946 [T. I. A. 8. 1724]

Agreement and accompanying notes between the United States of America and other governments respecting a provisional maritime consultative council. Dated at Washington October 30, 1946 : open for acceptance at London, acceptance deposited in behalf of the United States of America November 20 , 1946 ; entered into force April 23, 1947.
Revision of UMCO 2/35
Final Document October 30, 1946
UNITED MARITIME CONSULTATIVE COUNCIL · WASHINGTON, D.C.

AGREEMENT FOR PROVISIONAL
MARITIME CONSULTATIVE COUNCIL
ARTICLE I - Scope and Purposes
The Provisional Maritime Consultative Council shall be established as a temporary organization pending the establishment of a permanent inter-governmental agency in the maritime field.
i. to provide machinery for cooperation among Governments in the field of Governmental regulation and practices relating to technical matters of all kinds affecting shipping engaged in international trade, and to encourage the general adoption of the highest practicable standards in matters concerning maritime safety and efficiency of navigation ;
ii. to encourage the removal of all forms of discriminatory action and unnecessary restrictions by Governments affecting shipping engaged in international trade so as to promote the availability of shipping services to the commerce of the world without discrimination ;
iii. to provide for the consideration by the Council of any shipping problems of an international character involving matters of general principle that may be referred to the Council by the United Nations. Matters which are suitable for settlement through the normal processes of international shipping business are not within the scope of the Council.
iv. to provide for the exchange of information among Governments on matters under consideration by the Council.
ARTICLE II-Functions
The functions of the Provisional Maritime Consultative Council, which shall be consultative and advisory, shall be
(a) To consider and make recommendations on any matter within its scope as set forth in Sections ( i) and (ii ) of ARTICLE I.

61 STAT.]

MULTILATERAL- SHIPPING-OCT. 30, 1946

3797

(b) To consider and make recommendations on matters within its scope upon the request of any organ of the United Nations or other inter-governmental specialized agency.
(c) To advise on matters relating to the draft constitution for a permanent inter-governmental maritime organization.
ARTICLE III-Membership
Membership in the Council shall consist of those governments which notify the Government of the United Kingdom of their acceptance of this Agreement, being either governments members of the UMCC [¹ ] or governments members of the United Nations.

Ante, p. 3794.

ARTICLE IV-Organization

(1 ) The Council shall consist of all Member Governments.

(2) The Council may elect an Executive Committee consisting of twelve member governments which shall exercise such functions as may be delegated to it by the Council. The Executive Committee shall not be established by the Council until at least twenty governments have accepted this agreement.

(3) The Council shall at each session determine the host Government

and the time for its next meeting. Upon the request of not less

than four of the members the Chairman shall summon the Coun-

cil for an earlier date. The Government of

shall

convene the first meeting of the Council at any time after March 1, 1947.

(4) The host Government arranged for each session shall designate a Chairman who shall hold office until the host Government for the next following session has been decided, and shall provide the necessary secretariat for meetings held within its territory.

(5) Decisions of the Council shall be taken by a majority of those present and voting. Ten Members shall constitute a quorum. The Council shall otherwise determine its own rules of procedure.

ARTICLE V-Entry into Force (1) This agreement shall remain open for acceptance in the archives of the Government of the United Kingdom and shall enter into force when twelve Governments, of which five shall each have a total tonnage of not less than 1,000,000 g. t. of shipping have accepted it. [2]

¹ [United Maritime Consultative Council.] 2 [Entered into force Apr. 23, 1947 , acceptances having been deposited in behalf of: the United States, Nov. 20, 1946 ; Australia, Apr. 23, 1947 ; Belgium, Dec. 3, 1946 ; Canada, Dec. 5, 1946 ; Chile, Dec. 12, 1946 ; Denmark, Feb. 4, 1947 ; France, Dec. 18, 1946 ; Greece, Jan. 29, 1947 ; Netherlands, Jan. 1, 1947 ; Norway, Jan. 14, 1947 ; Poland, Feb. 27, 1947 ; and the United Kingdom, Dec. 1, 1946. The agreement was subsequently accepted by Brazil, India ( subject to a reservation whereby India retained full liberty " (i ) to take whatever measures may be necessary
in pursuit of their declared policy of assisting the rapid development of the Mercantile Marine, and ( ii ) to promote suitable amendments to the Agreement" ) , and New Zealand. ]

3798 59 Stat. 1052.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
(2 ) As soon as this agreement has come into force, a copy of the agreement together with the names of the Governments who have accepted it shall be sent by the Government of the United Kingdom to the Secretary-General of the United Nations for registration in accordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations.
ARTICLE VI-Termination
This agreement shall cease to have effect upon the entry into force of a constitution for a permanent inter- government maritime organization or if the membership falls below twelve. A member government may withdraw at any time upon six months notice to the Government of the United Kingdom.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the British Prime Minister

U. S. acceptance. Ante, p. 3796.

AMERICAN EMBASSY 1 Grosvenor Square London, W.1. November 19, 1946
DEAR MR. ATTLEE : The United Maritime Consultative Council, at its Second Session
held in Washington from October 24 to October 30, recommended that there be established a provisional council as an interim measure pending the setting up of the permanent Intergovernmental Maritime Organization.
Inasmuch as membership of the provisional council consists of governments, members of the United Maritime Consultative Council or of the United Nations, which notify the Government of the United Kingdom of their acceptance, I desire hereby to notify you that the United States accepts the agreement for the Provisional Maritime Consultative Council as incorporated in the final document ( UMCC 2/35) of October 30 , 1946.
Sincerely, W. J. GALLMAN
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
The Right Honorable C. R. ATTLEE, C.H., M.P., The Foreign Office, S.W.1.

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL- SHIPPING- OCT. 30, 1946

The British Prime Minister to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

No. W11209/39/58

FOREIGN OFFICE, S.W.1.
12th December, 1946.

SIR, I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
November 19th in which, with reference to the recommendations of the United Maritime Consultative Council at its Second Session in Washington from October 24th to October 30th, 1946, you are good enough to notify me that the United States accepts the agreement for the Provisional Maritime Consultative Council in the text of which was annexed to that of these Recommendations.
2. His Majesty's Government are taking steps to inform other Governments, formerly members of the United Maritime Consultative Council , of the acceptance of this Agreement by the Government of the United States.
I have the honour to be, with high consideration, Sir, Your obedient Servant,
(For Mr. Attlee) H. W. A. FREESE-PENNEFATHER

Mr. WALDEMAR J. GALLMAN, etc. , etc. , etc., 1 Grosvenor Square, W.1.

3799

3800

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

January 8, October 15, 1947
[T. I. A. S. 1726]

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting the allocation of FM channels in radio broadcasting. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington January 8 and October 15, 1947; entered into force October 15, 1947.

The Canadian Ambassador to the Secretary of State

No. 7

CANADIAN EMBASSY AMBASSADE DU CANADA

JANUARY 8, 1947 .

SIR, With reference to recent discussions between representatives of the
Government of Canada and the Government of the United States con-

cerning the use of the 88 to 108 megacycle frequency band for frequency modulation broadcasting, I have the honour to propose an exchange of notes concerning the allocation of channels with particular

Post, pp. 3802, 3819. Post, p. 3822.

reference to assignments in those areas adjacent to the border of Canada and the United States in order to prevent undue interference between stations in the respective countries .
Allocation plans for United States Frequency Modulation Broadcasting Stations and for Canadian Frequency Modulation Broadcasting Stations are described in Appendices I and II. The channel number system used in these appendices is in accordance with Appendix III .

Assignments will normally be made on the basis of omni-directional

antennae but it is recognized that directional antennae may advantageously be used in certain instances to reduce interference between stations .

Assignments made at points which are more than 250 miles from the nearest point on the border of Canada and the United States will normally have no international significance and need not be notified except in cases of unusual powers and unusual antenna heights .
Where distances less than 250 miles are involved, all assignments shall be notified in the following manner :

(1 ) Notification shall be made by an exchange of documents between the Federal Communications Commission and the
Department of Transport . (2) Notifications shall include full information on transmitting
antenna locations by geographical coordinates, antenna height above average terrain, antenna height above mean sea level, and effective radiated power. In the event an antenna, directional in the horizontal plane, is proposed , the directional pattern and other pertinent information shall be submitted . (3) Each country shall have 15 days from the date of notification in which to protest the proposed assignment.

61 STAT.]

Jan. 8, 1947 CANADA- RADIO BROADCASTING- Oct. 15, 1947

3801

(4) If, within the 15 day period prescribed in (3) above, no objection is raised, a notified assignment shall be considered final.

Wherever possible assignments made within 250 miles of the border should be in accordance with Appendices I and II .
No allocation plans have been adopted as yet for assignment of stations in the 88 to 92 megacycle portion of the band , which has been designated for use by non-commercial, educational broadcasting in both countries. When such a plan has been formulated , the procedure specified above shall apply.
I have the honour to suggest that, if an agreement in the sense of the foregoing paragraphs is acceptable to the Government of the United States, this note and your reply thereto in similar terms shall be regarded as placing on record the understanding arrived at between the two Governments, it being agreed that the present allocation plan shall not prejudice any subsequent agreement regarding Frequency Modulation channels which may be accepted by both Governments at future international telecommunications conferences.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . HH WRONG

Post, pp. 3802, 3819.

The Honourable JAMES F. BYRNES, Secretary of State, Washington, D. C.

3802

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

GENERAL AREA Anniston Bessemer Birmingham (includes Bessemer) Decatur Dothan Gadsden Huntsville Lanett Mobile
Montgomery Muscle Shoals Opelika (see also Columbus, Ga.) Selma Sylacauga (see also Talladega) Talladega (see also Sylacauga) Tuscaloosa
Globe Lowell Phoenix Prescott Safford Tucson Yuma
Blytheville (see also Jonesboro) El Dorado Fort Smith Helena Hot Springs & Hot Springs N. P. Jonesboro (see also Blytheville) Little Rock Pine Bluff Siloam Springs

APPENDIX I
ALABAMA CHANNEL NO.
263 See Birmingham 229, 250, 258, 273, 284, 295 223 225, 290 279 236 275 225, 235, 248 260, 271 , 300 233, 277, 298 275, 287 243
239, 293 270
246
255, 267
ARIZONA
226, 262 241, 279 238, 245, 253, 275, 295 229, 284 247, 299 234, 258, 270, 289 236, 267
ARKANSAS
241, 286
236, 287 223, 235, 271 , 281, 299 229, 262 227, 238, 258
270, 300
231, 245, 266, 278, 297 222 243, 289

61 STAT.]

CANADA- RADIO BROADCASTING- Jan. 8, 1947 Oct. 15, 1947

GENERAL AREA

CALIFORNIA

CHANNEL NO.

Bakersfield Chico El Centro Eureka Fresno Los Angeles (Metropolitan District)
Marysville Merced Modesto
Monterey Palm Springs Redding Riverside Sacramento Salinas (including Monterey, Santa Cruz &
Watsonville) San Bernardino San Diego San Francisco-Oakland (Metropolitan District)
San Jose San Luis Obispo Santa Barbara Santa Maria Santa Rosa Stockton Visalia Tulare Watsonville

223, 231, 243 266, 278 227, 275 234, 242 229, 238, 250, 258, 270, 274, 284 222, 226, 230, 234, 238, 242, 246, 250, 254, 258, 262, 266, 270, 274, 278, 282, 286, 290, 294, 298 254, 260, 268, 284 236, 248 277, 281 , 289, See Salinas 264 230, 248 248, 256 233, 241 , 245, 293, 300 233, 241 , 245, 293, 299
236, 260 223, 231 , 243, 268, 284, 300 227, 231 , 235, 239, 243, 247, 251, 255, 259, 263, 267, 271 , 275, 279, 283, 287, 291, 295 222, 253 227, 260, 279 268, 284, 300 236, 256 229, 273 225, 297 254, 295 264, 286 See Salinas

COLORADO

Alamosa Colorado Springs Denver
Durango Grand Junction Greeley La Junta Pueblo Sterling

255, 260 222, 227, 243, 274 231 , 239, 247, 253, 258, 262, 270, 279,
286, 294 235, 278 226, 298 235, 290 282, 300 236, 251, 266, 291 245, 282

3803

3804

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

CONNECTICUT

GENERAL AREA

CHANNEL NO.

Bridgeport (includes Danbury) Danbury Hartford (also see Meriden) Meriden (also see Hartford) New Britain New Haven New London Waterbury

248, 260, 268
See Bridgeport 229, 243, 275, 291 , 295
239
279 236, 256, 264, 300 258, 266, 293 223, 273, 287

DELAWARE

Wilmington

229, 241 , 258, 297 DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

Washington

230, 242, 246, 254, 258, 262, 266, 278, 286, 290, 297
FLORIDA

Daytona Beach Fort Myers Fort Lauderdale Gainesville Jacksonville Key West Lakeland Miami
Ocala Orlando Palm Beach Panama City Pensacola St. Augustine St. Petersburg Sarasota Tallahassee Tampa West Palm Beach

233, 248 245, 256 278, 293 281, 297 229, 236, 241, 245, 259, 264, 270 238, 263 239, 295
226, 230, 235, 242, 247, 260, 268, 275, 286
256, 267 222, 243, 262, 287 250, 298 283, 299 223, 255, 266 225, 291 250, 273, 284 258, 279 246, 274 227, 264, 289, 300 254, 271

61 STAT. ]

Jan. 8, 1947 CANADA- RADIO BROADCASTING- Oct. 15, 1947

GENERAL AREA

GEORGIA

CHANNEL NO.

Albany Athens Atlanta
Augusta Brunswick Cedartown (includes Dalton) Columbus (see also Opelika, Ala.) Cordele Dalton Dublin Gainesville Griffin La Grange Macon Moultrie Newnan Rome Savannah Thomasville Toccoa Valdosta Waycross West Point

258, 266, 271 258, 273 225, 231, 238, 248, 253, 260, 277, 283 279, 289, 298 275, 289 241 , 289 227, 236, 300 230, 241 See Cedartown & Rome 234, 251 300 268 281 245, 256, 264, 291 278, 286 222 293, 297 238, 243, 247, 262 250, 294 275 223, 239 283, 299 287

IDAHO

Boise Idaho Falls Lewiston Nampa Pocatello Twin Falls Wallace

222, 251 , 291 229, 277 247, 283 235, 270 243, 266 226, 259, 294 238, 263

ILLINOIS

Alton Aurora (includes Joliet) Bloomington Cairo (see also Cape Girardeau, Mo.) Carbondale Carthage Champaign Chicago
Decatur East St. Louis Elgin Evanston

260 236, 256
268, 297 239
225 253, 295 See Urbana 226, 230, 234, 238, 242, 246, 250, 254, 258, 262, 266, 270, 274, 278, 282, 286, 290, 300, 254, 271 See St. Louis, Mo. See Chicago See Chicago

95347°-50- PT. IV- 30

3805

3806

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

ILLINOIS-Continued

GENERAL AREA

CHANNEL NO.

Freeport Galesburg Harrisburg Herrin Jacksonville Joliet Kankakee Mt. Vernon Peoria
Quincy Rockford Rock Island (see also Davenport, Iowa) Springfield Tuscola Urbana (includes Champaign) Waukegan

273 247, 281 260, 264 243, 253 263, 291 See Aurora 264 231, 277 223, 227, 231, 239, 243, 299 258, 286 248 255
275, 279, 283 245, 287 248, 277,284
294

INDIANA

Anderson Columbus Connersville Crawfordsville Elkhart Evansville ( includes Henderson &
Owensboro, Ky.) Fort Wayne Hammond
Indianapolis (includes Anderson) Kokomo
Lafayette Marion Muncie Richmond Shelbyville South Bend Terre Haute Vincennes West Lafayette

See Indianapolis 229 262 275 236, 264
223, 233, 241 , 258, 273, 281 , 297 241, 279, 287, 291 222 222, 226, 234, 238, 242, 246, 250, 254, 283 260, 299 236, 268 295 273, 281 258 267 267, 284 260, 266 289, 293 256

Ames Atlantic Boone Burlington Cedar Rapids Clinton
Davenport (See also Rock Island, Ill . )

IOWA
238 293 251, 295 225 245, 293 241 233, 279

61 STAT. ]

Jan. 8, 1947 CANADA-RADIO BROADCASTING-
Oct. 15, 1947
IOWA-Continued

GENERAL AREA

CHANNEL NO.

Decorah Des Moines Dubuque Fort Dodge Iowa City Keokuk Marshalltown Mason City Ottumwa Shenandoah Sioux City Spencer Waterloo

223, 230 222, 231 , 247, 253, 262, 283 236, 263, 277 274, 287 229, 259 274 270, 291 266, 281 242, 264 277, 289, 297 235, 256, 271 223, 259 254, 298
KANSAS

Atchison Coffeyville Dodge City Emporia Garden City Great Bend Hutchinson Kansas City Lawrence Manhattan McPherson Pittsburg Salina Topeka Wichita
Ashland Bowling Green Harlan Henderson Hopkinsville Lexington Louisville Owensboro Paducah Winchester

239, 255 236, 266 234, 293 223, 245 247, 270 242, 287 226, 289 See Kansas City, Mo. 243, 286 247, 267 277 256, 273 233, 238 231, 258, 273 250, 262, 271 , 284, 297
KENTUCKY
See Huntington, W. Va. 251, 266 238 See Evansville, Ind. 230, 254 225, 233 236, 248, 259, 264, 268, 284, 300 See Evansville, Ind. 227, 245, 262 241, 251

LOUISIANA

Alexandria Baton Rouge Lafayette Lake Charles Monroe New Orleans Shreveport

245, 259, 273 251, 266, 282 241, 268 248, 289 277, 281 , 295 222, 229, 239, 246, 262, 274, 287, 298 233, 243, 266, 275, 298

3807

3808

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

MAINE

GENERAL AREA

CHANNEL NO.

Augusta Bangor Lewiston Portland (see also Mt. Washington, N. H.) Presque Isle

222, 267, 287 226, 246, 281 , 295 230, 275 250, 270, 300
242, 290

MARYLAND

Baltimore
(includes Annapolis) Cumberland Frederick Hagerstown Salisbury

222, 226, 234, 238, 250, 256, 270, 274, 282, 294, 300 275, 295 268 284 248, 268

MASSACHUSETTS

Boston (includes Waltham) Fall River (includes New Bedford) Fitchburg Haverhill Holyoke (includes Springfield) Lawrence Lowell New Bedford North Adams Pittsfield
Springfield Waltham Worcester

225, 233, 241 , 245, 253, 273, 277, 281, 289, 294 247, 251, 279
284 223 226, 234, 246, 250, 254, 262, 270, 282
229 258 See Falls River 248 260, 268 See Holyoke See Boston 236, 256, 264
MICHIGAN

Ann Arbor Battle Creek

(includes Kalamazoo)

Bay City Benton Harbor

Cadillac Calumet

Detroit

(includes Pontiac, Wyandotte)
East Lansing

Royal

Escanaba

Flint

(includes Lapeer) Grand Rapids

Ironwood Jackson

Oak,

254, 274 271 , 289
See Saginaw 260 253 226, 268 226, 234, 238, 242, 246, 250, 258, 262, & 266, 270, 278, 282, 290, 298
See Lansing 234, 281 236, 260, 264, 300
223, 229, 245, 273, 278, 286 270, 290 222

61 STAT. ]

Jan. 8, 1947 CANADA-RADIO BROADCASTING-
Oct. 15, 1947
MICHIGAN- Continued

GENERAL AREA

CHANNEL NO.

Kalamazoo Lansing (includes E. Lansing) Lapeer Ludington Marquette Muskegon Pontiac Port Huron Royal Oak Saginaw (Includes Bay City) Sault Sainte Marie Traverse City Wyandotte

See Battle Creek 248, 256, 284
See Flint 226, 238 230, 256 293, 297 See Detroit 256, 284 See Detroit 233, 241 , 251
226, 295 243, 268 See Detroit
MINNESOTA

Albert Lea Duluth
(includes Superior, Wisc.) Fergus Falls Hibbing Mankato Minneapolis (includes St. Paul) Moorhead (see also Fargo, N. D.) Northfield Rochester St. Cloud St. Paul Virginia Willmar Winona

241 222, 250, 264
242, 297 279, 286 243, 278 229, 239, 246, 253, 258, 262, 267, 271 , 275, 281 , 290, 294 230, 236
251, 300 234, 286, 297 233, 284 See Minneapolis 230, 259 225, 255 248, 273
MISSISSIPPI

Clarksdale Columbus Corinth Greenville Greenwood Gulfport Hattiesburg Jackson Laurel McComb Macon Meridian Natchez Tupelo Vicksburg

248, 256 226, 245 268, 278 270, 283 235, 293 243, 268 250, 290 233, 247, 258, 275, 286 279, 295 226, 255 271, 281 241, 253 231, 264 233, 242 238, 297

3809

3810

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

MISSOURI

GENERAL AREA

CHANNEL NO.

Cape Girardeau (see also Cairo , Ill .) Clayton Columbia Hannibal Jefferson City Joplin Kansas City (includes Kansas City, Kans.) Poplar Bluff St. Joseph St. Louis (includes Clayton) Sedalia Springfield

267, 291
See St. Louis 233, 268 245, 300 253, 277 241, 287 227, 235, 251 , 263, 271 , 282, 290, 294, 299 233, 279 222, 284 229, 236, 241 , 247, 251 , 256 , 266 , 273,
281, 294, 298 259, 279 225, 234, 238, 284, 297
MONTANA

Billings Bozeman Butte Great Falls Helena Kalispell Miles City Missoula Sidney
Fremont (see also Omaha) Grand Island Hastings Kearney Lincoln Norfolk North Platte Omaha (See also Fremont) Scottsbluff
Boulder City Las Vegas Reno
Claremont Keene Laconia Manchester Mount Washington Portsmouth

230, 274 227, 270 235, 256 250, 260 241, 281 223, 278 238, 254 245, 286 233, 267
NEBRASKA
245
243, 291 271, 279 256, 294 229, 250, 275, 287 258, 273 238, 274 225, 241 , 254, 260, 266, 281, 300 241, 277
NEVADA
229, 270 250, 262, 289 226, 238, 262
NEW HAMPSHIRE 291 300 247 239, 266 235, 255, 263, 283 297

61 STAT.]

CANADA-RADIO BROADCASTING- Jan. 8, 1947 Oct. 15, 1947
NEW JERSEY

GENERAL AREA

CHANNEL NO.

Atlantic City Bridgeton Camden Ewing Township Greenbrook Twp . Trenton (includes Ewing Twp.)

253, 264 255 See Philadelphia See Trenton 256 248, 268, 284
NEW MEXICO

Albuquerque Carlsbad Clovis Gallup Hobbs Las Vegas Roswell Santa Fe Tucumcari

225, 242, 264, 287 226, 262 255, 291 222, 279 235, 266 230, 275 246 , 277 253, 295 239, 270
NEW YORK

Albany (includes Schenectady & Troy) Auburn Batavia Binghamton Buffalo (Includes Niagara Falls) Coram
Corning (see also Elmira) Dunkirk Elmira (see also Corning) Gloversville Hornell Ithaca Jamestown Kingston Massena New York (includes numerous adjacent cities)
Niagara Falls Ogdensburg Olean Oneonta Oswego Plattsburg Poughkeepsie Rochester Rome Saranac Lake Syracuse (includes Auburn)

222, 230, 238, 242, 258, 266, 274, 278, 286, 290, 294, 298 See Syracuse 235, 259 251, 263, 299 225, 229, 241 , 245, 253, 273, 277, 281 , 293, 297 See New York or possibly Connecticut
Channels 291
233 295
234 287 230, 247 227, 284 235 287, 295 222, 226, 230, 234 , 238, 242, 246, 250, 254, 258, 262, 266, 270, 274, 278, 282, 286, 290, 294, 298 See Buffalo 279, 291 238, 264 256, 282 284 275, 281 284
223, 243, 250, 255, 267, 279 239 225, 247 226, 233, 241 , 253, 273, 281 , 297

3811

3812

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

NEW YORK-Continued

GENERAL AREA

CHANNEL NO.

Troy Utica Watertown

See Albany 229, 245, 277, 289 251, 263

NORTH CAROLINA

Ahoskie

270

Asheville Burlington Charlotte (see also Gastonia) Concord

268, 273, 282, 291 266 260, 278, 284, 299
243

(see also Salisbury)

Durham

286

Elizabeth City Fayetteville Gastonia

231 , 266 251 270

(see also Charlotte)

Goldsboro

227

Greensboro (see also High Point & Winston-Salem) Greenville Henderson

222, 247, 254, 262
250, 256 297

Hickory

275, 295

High Point

238, 258

(See also Greensboro & Winston- Salem)

Kinston

236, 245

(See also New Bern)

New Bern

279

(See also Kinston) Jacksonville

225, 260

Raleigh Roanoke Rapids (See also Rocky Mount) Rocky Mount

233, 241 , 268, 273, 277 223, 253
264, 282

(See also Roanoke Rapids)

Reidsville

291

Salisbury

293

Statesville

289

Washington Wilmington Wilson Winston - Salem (See also Greensboro & High Point)

275 230, 242 290, 294, 300 226, 281

NORTH DAKOTA

Bismarck (includes Mandan) Devil's Lake Fargo (see also Moorhead, Minn.) Grand Forks Jamestown Mandan Minot
Valley City

229, 250, 273, 294
226, 266 222, 260
234, 254, 278, 299 239, 284 See Bismarck 243, 290 246, 270

61 STAT.]

Jan. 8, 1947 CANADA- RADIO BROADCASTING-
Oct. 15, 1947

GENERAL AREA Akron (includes Tallmadge) Alliance (includes Canton) Ashland Ashtabula Athens Bellaire Canton Cincinnati (includes Hamilton) Cleveland
(includes Lorain) Columbus
Dayton (includes Springfield) Findlay Fostoria Freemont Hamilton Lima Lorain Mansfield Marion Newark (includes Zanesville) Portsmouth Springfield Steubenville Tallmadge Toledo (includes Freemont) Warren (see also Sharon, Pa. Wooster
Youngstown Zanesville

 CHANNEL NO.
239, 243, 248
223, 231, 235
267, 273 See Erie, Pa. 297 See Wheeling, W. Va. See Alliance 266, 270, 274, 278, 282, 286, 290, 294, 298 253, 258, 264, 271, 277, 281 , 289, 293, 297 222, 226, 234, 238, 242, 246, 250, 254 236, 248, 256, 260, 264, 268, 284 263 275 See Toledo See Cincinnati 271, 277, 293 See Cleveland 279, 287, 291 295 262, 299
See Huntington, W. Va. See Dayton See Wheeling , W. Va. See Akron 260, 268, 284, 300
227, 300
260, 283 See Sharon, Pa. See Newark

OKLAHOMA

Ada Ardmore Bartlesville Clinton Durant Elk City Enid Lawton
Muskogee Norman Oklahoma City (includes Norman) Okmulgee Ponca City Shawnee Stillwater Tulsa

226, 284 229 291 298 297 239, 277 243, 274 251, 267 253, 268 See Oklahoma City 222, 234, 255, 263, 270, 282, 290 260, 275 293 241 , 248 300 238, 246, 251 , 258, 278, 286, 295

3813

3814

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

GENERAL AREA
Albany Astoria Baker Bend Corvallis Eugene Grants Pass Klamath Falls La Grande Marshfield Medford Pendleton Portland (See also Vancouver, Wash.) Roseburg Salem The Dalles

OREGON CHANNEL NO.
241 , 260 242, 268 250, 274 236, 275 250 256, 284 245, 260 233, 251 , 268 243, 260 239, 266 229, 286 226, 278 222, 226 , 238, 246, 254 , 262, 266, 278, 282, 290, 294, 298 234, 274 230, 286 251 , 287

PENNSYLVANIA

Allentown
(includes Bethlehem & Easton) Altoona Beaver Falls Bethlehem Bradford

236, 260, 264, 300
243, 279 See Pittsburgh See Allentown 248

(see also Jamestown & Olean, N. Y.) Butler Clearfield Du Bois

See Pittsburgh See DuBois 256, 271

(includes Clearfield)

Easton

See Allentown

Erie

246, 250, 260, 279

(includes Ashtabula, Ohio)

Glenside

See Philadelphia

Greensburg

297

Harrisburg Hazleton

235, 247, 255, 259, 293, 298 227

Johnstown

238, 287

Lancaster Lebanon

245 , 267 281

Lewistown

226, 250

Meadville

See Sharon

New Castle

See Sharon

New Kensington

See Pittsburgh

Oil City

290, 299

Philadelphia

223, 227, 231 , 239, 243 , 251 , 271 , 275,

(includes Glenside, Pa. & Camden, N. J.) 279, 287, 291 , 295

Pittsburgh

225, 229, 233, 241 , 245,

(includes New Kensington,

251, 259, 268

Beaver Falls & Butler)

Pottsville

258, 270

Reading Scranton

225, 233, 273 222, 229, 241 , 253, 267, 277, 289, 297

(includes Wilkes- Barre)

Shamokin

284

Sharon

255, 262, 266, 275, 286, 295

(includes Warren & Youngstown , Ohio,

Meadville & New Castle, Pa.)

61 STAT.]

Jan. 8, 1947 CANADA-RADIO BROADCASTING-
Oct. 15, 1947

PENNSYLVANIA-Continued

GENERAL AREA

CHANNEL NO.

State College Sunbury Uniontown Washington Wilkes-Barre

282 231, 275 289, 293 273, 282 See Scranton

Williamsport York

262, 286 253, 263, 277, 289

RHODE ISLAND

Pawtucket Providence

See Providence 222, 231, 238, 260, 268, 286, 299
SOUTH CAROLINA

Anderson Charleston Columbia (see also Sumter) Conway Florence Greenville (see also Spartanburg) Greenwood Lancaster Rock Hill Spartanburg (see also Greenville) Sumter (see also Columbia)

266, 287 236, 245, 271 226, 233, 250, 258
222 231, 291 223, 229, 236
239, 253 297 248 255, 263
267, 274
SOUTH DAKOTA

Aberdeen Pierre
Rapid City Sioux Falls Vermillion Watertown Yankton

264, 282 241, 258 234, 254, 278, 290 227, 247, 275, 286 264, 284 231 , 268 262, 295
TENNESSEE

Bristol (includes Johnson City & Kingsport) Chattanooga (includes Cleveland) Clarksville Cleveland Cookeville Jackson Johnson City (see also Bristol) Kingsport (see also Bristol) Knoxville
Memphis Nashville

223, 245
234, 243, 251 , 256, 266, 271
270, 294 See Chattanooga 283 264, 284 264
253
227, 247, 258, 262, 279, 286 238, 246, 250, 259, 274, 282, 290, 295 225, 238, 248, 277, 290, 298

3815

3816

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

TEXAS

GENERAL AREA

CHANNEL NO.

Abilene Amarillo Austin Beaumont Belton

245, 278 226, 262, 282 222, 267, 284 227, 258, 300 See Temple

Big Spring

239, 270

Brady Brownsville

236, 256 222, 229, 234, 247, 258, 277

(includes Harlingen & McAllen & Weslaco)

Brownwood

282, 290

College Station

231, 259

Corpus Christi Corsicana Dallas Denton

238, 255, 283, 293, 300 271, 279 223, 250, 266, 283, 295, 300 291

El Paso

234, 275

Fort Worth Galveston

227, 242, 258, 263, 287 254, 279

Harlingen Houston Huntsville Kilgore

See Brownsville 239, 243, 250, 266, 275, 286, 291 , 295 234, 262 229, 247, 290

(includes Longview & Tyler) Laredo

243, 267

Longview Lubbock Lufkin

See Kilgore 242, 258, 300 238, 281

Midland

222, 281

McAllen Odessa

See Brownsville 248

Palestine

225, 274

Pampa Paris Pecos

253, 289 255, 273 230, 294

Plainview Port Arthur San Angelo San Antonio

246, 297 270, 293 233, 274 225, 234, 242, 247, 251 , 258,

Sherman

263, 273, 281 , 289, 297 236

Sweetwater

226, 264

Temple

246, 298

(includes Belton) Texarkana
Tyler (see also Kilgore) Vernon Victoria

251 , 264, 293 268
254, 271 230, 270

Waco

254, 277

Waxahachie Weslaco

See Dallas & Fort Worth See Brownsville

Wichita Falls

231, 247, 260, 293

UTAH

Cedar City Logan

233, 297 250, 290

61 STAT.]

Jan. 8, 1947 CANADA-RADIO BROADCASTING- Oct. 15, 1947

GENERAL AREA
Ogden Price Provo Salt Lake City

UTAH-Continued CHANNEL NO.
234, 274 242, 262 226, 299 230, 238, 246, 254, 258, 262, 270, 278, 286, 295

VERMONT

Burlington Rutland St. Albans Waterbury

231 , 289 271 243, 267 227, 251
VIRGINIA

Alexandria Charlottesville (includes Staunton) Covington Danville Fredericksburg Front Royal Harrisonburg Lynchburg Martinsville Newport News Norfolk (includes Newport News, Portsmouth & Suffolk) Petersburg Portsmouth Richmond Roanoke Staunton Suffolk Winchester

See Washington, D. C. 273, 293
238, 286 230, 250 See Washington, D. C. 236 227, 264 248, 300 242, 271 See Norfolk 243, 247, 255, 259, 273, 277, 287, 291, 299
229, 239 See Norfolk 225, 233, 251 , 271 , 275, 281 , 295 235, 256, 279 See Charlottesville See Norfolk 223

WASHINGTON

Aberdeen Bellingham Centralia Everett Longview Olympia Port Angeles Pullman Pasco Seattle
Spokane Tacoma Vancouver (see also Portland, Ore.) Walla Walla Wenatchee Yakima

262, 293 225, 281 229, 284 241 , 245 234, 274 271, 279 233, 297 229, 270 253, 298 231, 235, 251 , 255, 260, 264,
268, 275, 287, 291 , 295, 300 225, 236, 243, 251 , 275, 287 223, 227, 239, 243, 247 258
234, 268 281, 293 241 , 248, 277

3817

3818

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

WEST VIRGINIA

GENERAL AREA

CHANNEL NO.

Beckley Bluefield

258, 267 227, 283, 298

(includes Welch) Charleston Clarksburg

225, 241 , 248, 253, 289 222, 236, 270, 287, 300

(includes Fairmont & Morgantown) Fairmont Huntington

See Clarksburg 229, 233, 263, 273, 281 , 291

(includes Ashland, Ky. & Portsmouth, Ohio)
Logan Morgantown Parkersburg

277, 294 See Clarksburg 293

Welch

See Bluefield

Wheeling-

247, 254, 263, 278

(includes Bellaire & Steubenville, Ohio)

Williamson

222, 236

WISCONSIN

Appleton (Includes Neenah) Ashland Beloit Eau Claire Fond du Lac Green Bay Greenfield Twp. Janesville La Crosse Madison (includes Greenfield Twp.) Manitowoc Marinette Medford Milwaukee
Neenah Oshkosh Poynette Racine Rice Lake Sheboygan Stevens Point Superior Wausau Wisconsin Rapids
Casper Cheyenne Powell Rock Springs Sheridan

222, 253
245, 254 297 231, 279 247, 258 266, 273, 289 See Madison 260 226, 233 255, 268, 290
233, 241 286, 298 260, 300 223, 227, 231 , 239, 243, 251 , 271 , 275, 279,
287, 291 , 299 See Appleton 225, 229 235 264, 284 236, 242 262, 282 245, 293 See Duluth, Minn. 238, 250, 264, 284 277
WYOMING
229, 264 226, 266, 298 234, 258 236, 248 262,283

61 STAT.]

CANADA-RADIO BROADCASTING- Jan. 8, 1947 Oct. 15, 1947
APPENDIX II

GENERAL AREAS
Sydney Halifax
Dartmouth Yarmouth Bridgewater Liverpool Windsor Kentville Truro
Charlottetown
St. John
Fredericton Edmunston Dalhousie Chatham

CHANNEL NUMBER GENERAL See Appen- AREAS
dix III
NOVA SCOTIA
235 Antigonish 293 Stellarton 222 New Glasgow 260 Pictou 291 Springhill 295 Amherst 251 Sydney Mines 221 North Sydney 226 New Waterford 231 Glace Bay 243 Dominion 266 Westville 283
PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND
288 Summerside 297
NEW BRUNSWICK
257 Sussex 263 Campbellton 269 Woodstock 273 St. Stephen 249 Newcastle 253 Bathurst 223 Moncton 227 300 Sackville 225

Montreal
Sherbrooke Quebec City

QUEBEC
223 Granby 228 St. Hyacinthe 232 St. Jean 236 Megantic 240 Thetford 245 Drummondville 249 Sorel 253 257 Three Rivers 264 293 Baie St. Paul 259 Matane 269 Rimouski 274 New Carlisle 278 Shawinigan Falls 231 247 Joliette 251 St. Jerome 256 Lachute 266 St. Agathe des Monts

CHANNEL NUMBER See Appen-
dix III
223 227 237 245 255 235 221 225 230 239 247 233
271
285 232 237 298 221 247 240 280 229
300 296 285 221 226 234 238 242 282 290 260 262 268 276 272 276 261 270 280 251

3819

3820

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

GENERAL AREAS
Donnaconna Val d'Or La Tuque Montmagny St. Anne de la Pocatiere Riviere du Loup Chicoutimi
Arvida

QUEBEC - Continued
CHANNEL GENERAL
NUMBER See Appen- AREAS
dix III
279 Kenogami 251 Jonquiere
284 Bagotville 286 St. Joseph d'Alma 292 Roberval
296 Port Alfred
221 Mont Joli
225 Rouyn 229 Amos

CHANNEL NUMBER See Appen-
dix III 234 239 244 248 252 258 272 243 247

ONTARIO

Toronto
Ottawa-Hull
Kitchener Sudbury Chatham Sarnia Stratford Brantford Welland Kingston Niagara Falls London-St. Thomas
Windsor
North Bay Orillia

221 Oshawa

228

251

298

256 Peterborough

268

260

294

264 Belleville

237

271

246

283 Brockville

266

287

271

221 Cornwall

283

226

299

230 Pembroke

224

269

297

273 Kirkland Lake

229

277

268

244 St. Catharines

249

291

285

223

289

249 Hamilton

231

288

266

236

275

264

300

248 Galt

247

268 Guelph

278

252 Woodstock

295

272 Wingham

238

226 Owen Sound

222

234

227

269 Barrie

236

242 Kapuskasing

245

258 Fort William-Port Arthur

232

237

274

262

278

224

282

228 Timmins

233

232

272

240 Sault Ste. Marie

263

221

283

230 Fort Frances

224

286 Kenora

228

294

269

235 New Liskeard

225

292 Sturgeon Falls

239

240

61 STAT.]

CANADA-RADIO BROADCASTING- Jan. 8, 11994477 Oct. 15,
MANITOBA

GENERAL AREAS
Winnipeg
St. Boniface Transcona

CHANNEL GENERAL
NUMBER See Appen- AREAS
dix III
221 Portage la Prairie 232 Dauphin 248 Brandon .. 252 272 Selkirk 276 The Pas 256 Flin Flon 262
SASKATCHEWAN

Regina Saskatoon Prince Albert

231 Swift Current 235 Yorkton 245 North Battleford 259 Moose Jaw 221
226 Weyburn 256 Melville 264 282

ALBERTA

Medicine Hat Lethbridge
Calgary

228 Edmonton 232 265 234 240 271 Red Deer 276 Grand Prairie 280

BRITISH COLUMBIA

Vancouver
Victoria
New Westminster North Vancouver Nanaimo Powel River

221 Prince Rupert 249 Port Alberni 257 Prince George 278 Dawson Creek 289 Chilliwack 293 Princeton 253 Vernon 273 Trail 285 Rossland 266 Nelson
228 Kamloops 237 Kelowna 240 Penticton

YUKON

Dawson City

221 Whitehorse

NORTH WEST TERRITORIES

Yellowknife

221

95347-50- PT. IV- 31

CHANNEL NUMBER See Appen-
dix III 268 225 241 280 285 289 222
253 292 268 239 249 300 296
224 251 258 262 290 244 255
260 244 264 269 270 283 222 289 294 285 252 246 298
223

3821

3822

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Frequency (mc.)
88. 1 88.3 88.5 88.7 88.9 89. 1 89.3 89.5 89.7 89.9 90. 1 90. 3 90. 5 90. 7 90.9 91. 1 91. 3 91. 5 91. 7 91.9 92. 1 92. 3 92. 5 92.7 92.9 93. 1 93. 3 93. 5 93. 7 93.9 94. 1 94. 3 94. 5 94.7

APPENDIX III

Channel Frequency

No.

(mc .)

Channel Frequency

No.

(mc . )

201 94.9 202 95. 1 203 95.3 204 95.5 205 95.7 206 95.9 207 96. 1 208 96. 3 209 96.5 210 96.7 211 96.9 212 97. 1 213 97.3 214 97.5 215 97.7 216 97.9 217 98. 1 218 98. 3 219 98. 5 220 98.7 221 98. 9 222 99.1 223 99.3 224 99.5 225 99.7 226 99.9 227 100. 1 228 100. 3 229 100. 5 230 100.7 231 100.9 232 101. 1 233 101.3 234

235 101.5 236 101.7 237 101.9 238 102. 1 239 102.3 240 102.5 241 102.7 242 102.9 243 103. 1 244 103. 3 245 103.5 246 103.7 247 103.9 248 104. 1 249 104. 3 250 104.5 251 104.7 252 104.9 253 105. 1 254 105. 3 255 105.5 256 105.7 257 105.9 258 106. 1 259 106.3 260 106.5 261 106.7 262 106.9 263 107. 1 264 107.3 265 107.5 266 107.7 267 107.9

Channel No.
268 269 270 271 272 273 274 275 276 277 278 279 280 281 282 283 284 285 286 287 288 289 290 291 292 293 294 295 296 297 298 299 300

61 STAT. ]

Jan. 8, 1947 CANADA- RADIO BROADCASTING- Oct. 15, 1947

3823

The Secretary of State to the Canadian Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON Oct. 15, 1947

EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to refer to your note No. 7 of January 8, 1947, in

Ante, p. 3800.

which you proposed an exchange of notes on the subject of the allocation of channels in the radio frequency band 88 to 108 megacycles , for

frequency modulation broadcasting. In this connection, particular importance is attributed in your note to channel assignments for operation in areas adjacent to the border of Canada and the United States, and to the need to prevent undue interference between stations in the respective countries .
Your note under reference states that allocation plans for United States frequency modulation broadcasting stations and for Canadian frequency modulation broadcasting stations are described in Appendices I and II to an Agreement between the two countries on the subject, and that the channel number system used in these Appendices is in accordance with Appendix III to the same Agreement. This note further states that assignments will normally be made on the basis of omnidirectional antennae but that it is recognized that directional antennae may advantageously be used in certain instances to reduce interference between stations .

Allocation plans. Ante, pp. 3802, 3819. Ante, p. 3822.

Moreover, assignments made at points which are more than 250

miles from the nearest point on the border of Canada and the United

States are normally to have no international significance and need not

be notified except in cases of unusual powers and unusual antenna

heights . Where distances less than 250 miles are involved, all assignments
shall be notified in the following manner :

Notifications of assignments.

(1) Notification shall be made by an exchange of documents between the Federal Communications Commission and the Department of Transport.

(2) Notifications shall include full information on transmitting antenna locations by geographical coordinates, antenna height above average terrain, antenna height above mean sea level, and effective radiated power . In the event an antenna, directional in the horizontal plane, is proposed , the directional pattern and other pertinent information shall be submitted .

(3) Each country shall have 15 days from the date of notification in which to protest the proposed assignment.

(4) If, within the 15 day period prescribed in (3) above, no objec-

tion is raised , a notified assignment shall be considered final.

Wherever possible assignments made within 250 miles of the

border should be in accordance with Appendices I and II.

Ante, pp. 3802, 3819.

Band for non-comFinally, the same note states that no allocation plans have been mercial educational
adopted as yet for assignment of stations in the band from 88 to 92 broadcasting.

megacycles, which has been designated for use by non-commercial

3824

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

educational broadcasting in both countries, and that when such a plan

has been formulated , the procedure specified above shall apply .

U. S. acceptance of agreement.

I have the honor to inform you that an agreement in the sense of the

foregoing paragraphs is acceptable to the Government of the United

Ante, p. 3800.

States, and that this Government agrees to consider the Embassy's note No. 7 of January 8 , 1947, together with the present reply thereto as placing on record the understanding arrived at by the two Governments on the above mentioned subject, it being agreed that the pres-

ent allocation plan should not prejudice any subsequent agreement

regarding frequency modulation channels which may be accepted by both Governments at future International Telecommunications

Conferences .

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

For the Secretary of State : GARRISON NORTON

His Excellency HUME WRONG, Ambassador of Canada.

61 STAT. ] EGYPT-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JUNE 15, 1946

3825

Agreement between the United States of America and Egypt respecting air transport services. Signed at Cairo June 15, 1946; operative from June 15, 1946; entered into force definitively August 8, 1947.
AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND EGYPT

June 15, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1727]

Having in mind the resolution signed under date of December 7, 1944, at the International Civil Aviation Conference [ 1 ] in Chicago, Illinois, for the adoption of a standard form of agreement for provisional air routes and services, and the desirability of mutually stimulating and promoting the sound economic development of air transportation between the United States and Egypt, the two Governments parties to this arrangement agree that the establishment and development of air transport services between their respective territories shall be governed by the following provisions :

ARTICLE 1

The Contracting Parties grant the rights specified in the Annex hereto necessary for establishing the international civil air routes and services therein described, whether such services be inaugurated immediately or at a later date at the option of the Contracting Party to whom the rights are granted.

Post, p. 3828.

ARTICLE 2

(a )

Each of the air services so described shall be placed in oper-

Inauguration of services.

ation as soon as the Contracting Party to whom the rights have been

granted by Article 1 to designate an airline or airlines for the route

concerned has authorized an airline for such route, and the Con-

tracting Party granting the rights shall , subject to Article 6 hereof,

be bound to give the appropriate operating permission to the airline

or airlines concerned ; provided that the airlines so designated may

be required to qualify before the competent aeronautical authorities

of the Contracting Party granting the rights under the laws and

regulations normally applied by these authorities before being per-

mitted to engage in the operations contemplated by this Agree-

ment ; and provided that in areas of hostilities or of military occupa-

tion , or in areas affected thereby, such inauguration shall be subject

to the approval of the competent military authorities.

(b) It is understood that either Contracting Party granted com-

mercial rights under this Agreement should exercise them at the

earliest practicable date except in the case of temporary inability to do so.

1 ¹ [International Civil Aviation Conference, Chicago, Illinois, November 1 to
December 7, 1944, Final Act and Related Documents. Department of State publication 2282.]

3826

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

ARTICLE 3

Prevention of discrimination, etc.

In order to prevent discriminatory practices and to assure equality

of treatment, both Contracting Parties agree that :

(a) Each of the Contracting Parties may impose or permit to be imposed just and reasonable charges for the use of public airports and other facilities under its control. Each of the Contracting Parties agrees, however, that these charges shall not be higher than
would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services.
(b) Fuel, lubricating oils and spare parts introduced into the territory of one Contracting Party by the other Contracting Party or its nationals, and intended solely for use by aircraft of such other Contracting Party shall be accorded national and most-favored- nation treatment with respect to the imposition of customs duties, inspection fees or other national duties or charges by the Contracting Party whose territory is entered.
(c) The fuel, lubricating oils, spare parts, regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board civil aircraft of the airlines of one

Post, p. 3828.

Contracting Party authorized to operate the routes and services described in the Annex shall, upon arriving in or leaving the territory of the other Contracting Party, be exempt from customs, inspection fees or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used or consumed by such aircraft on flights in that territory.

ARTICLE 4

Certificates of airworthiness, etc.

Certificates of airworthiness, certificates of competency and licenses

issued or rendered valid by one Contracting Party shall be recognized

Post, p. 3828.

as valid by the other Contracting Party for the purpose of operating the routes and services described in the Annex. Each Con-

tracting Party reserves the right , however, to refuse to recognize,

for the purpose of flight above its own territory, certificates of

competency and licenses granted to its own nationals by another state.

ARTICLE 5

Laws and regulations.

(a ) The laws and regulations of one Contracting Party relating to the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged in international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of such aircraft while within its territory, shall be applied to the aircraft of the other Contracting Party, and shall be complied

with by such aircraft upon entering or departing from or while within the territory of the first Party.

(b) The laws and regulations of one Contracting Party as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers, crew, or

cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance,

immigration, passports, customs, and quarantine shall be complied with by or on behalf of such passengers, crew or cargo of the other

Contracting Party upon entrance into or departure from, or while within the territory of the first party.

61 STAT.] EGYPT-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JUNE 15, 1946

3827

ARTICLE 6

Each Contracting Party reserves the right to withhold or revoke

Withholding or rev. ocation of certificate

a certificate or permit to an airline of the other Party in any case where or permit.

it is not satisfied that substantial ownership and effective control are

vested in nationals of either Party to this Agreement, or in case of

failure of an airline to comply with the laws of the State over which

it operates as described in Article 5 hereof, or to perform its obligations under this Agreement.

ARTICLE 7
This Agreement and all contracts connected therewith shall be registered with the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization.

Registration.

ARTICLE 8
Termination of Either Contracting Party may terminate the rights for services rights for services. granted by it under this Agreement by giving one year's notice to the other Contracting Party.
ARTICLE 9
Modification of In the event either of the Contracting Parties considers it desirable routes or conditions.
Post, p. 3828. to modify the routes or conditions set forth in the attached Annex, it may request consultation between the competent authorities of both
Contracting Parties, such consultation to begin within a period of
sixty days from the date of the request. When these authorities
mutually agree on new or revised conditions affecting the Annex, their
recommendations on the matter will come into effect after they have
been confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes.

ARTICLE 10

Any dispute between the Contracting Parties relating to the interpretation or application of this Agreement or its Annex, which cannot be settled through consultation, shall be referred for an advisory report to the Interim Council of the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization ( in accordance with the provisions of Article 3, Section 6 ( 8 ) of the Interim Agreement on Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7 , 1944 ) or its successors.

Disputes. Post, p. 3828.
59 Stat. 1521.

ARTICLE 11
The provisions of this Agreement shall become operative from the day it is signed. The Egyptian Government shall notify the Government of the United States of approval of the Agreement by the Egyptian Parliament, and the Government ofthe United States shall consider the Agreement as becoming definitive upon the date of such notification by the Egyptian Government. [1]

Effective date.

1 [The agreement entered into force definitively Aug. 8, 1947, the date of official notification of approval by the Egyptian Parliament. ]

3828

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Authentic languages.

Done at Cairo in duplicate in the English and Arabic languages, each of which shall be of equal authenticity, this 15th (15th ) day of June (ragab) , 1946 ( 1365 ) .

For the Government of the United States of America :

S. PINKNEY TUCK

For the Royal Egyptian Government : A. LOUTFY EL- SAYED

[SEAL]

ANNEX TO AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND EGYPT

SECTION 1

U.S. rights of transit and stop in Egyp-

Airlines of the United States of America authorized under the

tian territory.

present Agreement are accorded rights of transit and non-traffic

stop in Egyptian territory as well as the right to pick up and dis-

charge international traffic in passengers, cargo and mail at Cairo on the following routes in both directions :

United States to Egypt ( Cairo ) and thence to Palestine (Lydda) , Iraq ( Basra) , Saudi Arabia ( Dhahran) , and beyond, via :

(a ) Ireland, France, Switzerland , Italy, and Greece, (b) Portugal, Spain, Italy, and Greece, and (c) Portugal, Spain, and North African points.

SECTION 2

Egyptian rights of transit and stop in U. S. territory.

Airlines of Egypt authorized under the present Agreement are accorded rights of transit and non-traffic stop in United States territory as well as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers, cargo and mail in the United States on a route or

routes as may be determined at a later date from Egypt, via intermediate points to the United States in both directions.

SECTION 3

General principles. In the establishment and operation of air services covered by this

Agreement and its Annex, the following principle shall apply :

Encouragement of air travel.
Capacity.

(1) The two Governments desire to foster and encourage the widest possible distribution of the benefits of air travel for the general good of mankind at the cheapest rates consistent with sound economic principles ; and to stimulate international air travel as a means of promoting friendly understanding and good will among peoples and insuring as well the many indirect benefits of this new form of transportation to the common welfare of both countries.
(2 ) It is the understanding of both Governments that services

provided by a designated air carrier under the Agreement and its Annex shall retain as their primary objective the provision of ca-

pacity adequate to the traffic demands between the country of which

61 STAT. ] EGYPT--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- JUNE 15, 1946

3829

such air carrier is a national and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic. The right to embark or disembark on such services international traffic destined for and coming from third countries at a point or points on the routes specified in the Annex to the Agreement shall be applied in accordance with the general principles of orderly development to which both Governments subscribe and shall be subject to the general principle that capacity should be related :
(a) to traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination,
(b) to the requirements of through airline operation , and (c) to the traffic requirements of the area through which the airline passes after taking account of local and regional services.
SECTION 4
The Contracting Parties should undertake regular and frequent consultation between their respective aeronautical authorities so that there should be close collaboration in the observance of the principles and the implementation of the provisions outlined in the Agreement and its Annex, and in case of dispute the matter shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 of the Agreement.

Consultation. Ante, p. 3827.

:

        

·

                        .   
             

             :

)   )               .
 -                      .                                      

                         .                

             -             )   )
         .            
            (   )
    :             
 

             

           

       

 



Y

    

         

3830

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

-

            
(   )        .                                             
             (   )
                                
                      .   -                        
          -  (   )
             .                         
           )   )
                                           
                            .                    -     
            

·

61 STAT. ] EGYPT-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JUNE 15, 1946 (T )

3831

2
[S. Pinkney Tuck] 2 [A. Loutfy El- Sayed]

[ ]      

[1]

    

   

 

 (  









            

            

    

            )    )
                 

·

   

)      



)       ( )      





            (   )
       

·

                                      

             (   )
                    

(   )

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT. ( )

3832

-1 ! ·
14



· 

                        
             
               -     
            .                               -                                          
( )                 .                                      
( )                         :
               
                          
              
            -      .    (  )     :      (  )    (  )  (  )              :                          
 
         )

-

·

·

61 STAT.] EGYPT-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JUNE 15, 1946 (2)

3833

3834

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

J1a1n,uMaarryc2h1 , 5F, e1b3,r1u9a4r6y [T. I. A. 8. 1728]

Agreement between the United States of America and the Netherlands respecting passport visa fees. Effected by exchanges of notes dated at The Hague January 21 , February 11 , and March 5 and 13, 1946; entered into force March 13, 1946.

The American Embassy to the Royal Netherlands Ministry for

Foreign Affairs EMBASSY OF THE

No. 238

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Royal Netherlands Ministry for Foreign Affairs and, with reference to the Ministry's note No. 8149 of October 20, 1945, [ ¹] has the honor to state that the non-immigrant passport visa fees would be waived by the United States Government on a reciprocal basis for all Netherlands nationals wherever they may be resident.
It is hoped that in the light of the foregoing assurance the Ministry will be in a position to advise the Embassy at an early date regarding the willingness of the Netherlands Government to revive the reciprocal agreement between the Government of the United States and the Netherlands Government for the waiving of fees for passport visas to non-immigrants.

THE HAGUE, January 21, 1946.

JWB

1 [Not printed. ]

Jan. 21 , Feb. 11, 1946 61 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS-PASSPORT VISA FEES- Mar. 5, 13, 1946

3835

The Royal Netherlands Ministryfor Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy
NOTE . Division for Administrative Affairs . No. 6325 .
The Royal Netherlands Ministry for Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Embassy of the United States of America and , in reply to the Embassy's note No. 238 of January 21 , 1946 , has the honor to state that the Netherlands Government is quite willing to accept the proposal to waive fees for passports visas to nonimmigrants on a reciprocal basis for American citizens and Netherlands nationals wherever they may be resident .
The Ministry for Foreign Affairs would be glad to learn at as early a date as possible if the Government of the United States of America agrees to put this new understanding into force on the 15th of March next .
The Hague , February 11th 1946 . OR FO
F
To the Embassy of the United States of America .

MINISTRY

AFFAIRS

3836

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Effective date.

The American Embassy to the Royal Netherlands Ministry for Foreign Affairs

No. 273

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Royal Netherlands Ministry for Foreign Affairs, and has the honor to refer to the Ministry's note No. 6325 , of February 11, 1946, in regard to the reciprocal waiving of passport visa fees for American citizens and Netherlands nationals who are non-immigrants.
Under instructions, the Embassy proposes that April 15 , 1946, be adopted as the date upon which there shall become effective the waiving of passport visa fees for American citizens who are proceeding as non-immigrants to the Netherlands and overseas territories of the Netherlands and for Netherlands subjects who are proceeding as nonimmigrants to the territorial and insular possessions of the United States.
In order that there may be sufficient time for the notification of the appropriate authorities, it would be appreciated if the Ministry would be good enough to inform the Embassy at an early date of the Netherlands Government's acceptance of the foregoing.

THE HAGUE, March 5, 1946.

SKH

Jan. 21 , Feb. 11, 1946 61 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS PASSPORT VISA FEES- Mar. 5, 13, 1946

3837

The Royal Netherlands Ministry for Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy

Administrative and Legal Department No.19487
The Ministry for Foreign Affairs begs to acknowledge receipt of the note of March 5th 1946 No.273 of the Embassy of the United States of America and in reply has the honor to state that the Netherlands Government fully agree with the proposal that April 15th 1946 shall be adopted as the date upon which shall become effective the waiving of fees for passportvisas for American citizens who are proceeding as non-immigrants to the Netherlands and overseas territories of the Netherlands and for Netherlands subjects who are proceeding as nonimmigrants to the territorial and insular possessions of the United States .
Instructions in conformity with the foregoing have been forwarded to the Netherlands representatives abroad .
The Hague , March 13th 1946 OR FO
F
To the Embassy of the United States of America.

MINISTRY

AFFAIRS N TG

95347°-50-PT. IV- 32

3838

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

July 30, August 20, 1947
[T. I. A. S. 1729]

Agreement between the United States of America and the Netherlands respecting passport visas. Effected by exchange of notes dated at The Hague July 30 and August 20, 1947; entered into force August 20, 1947.
The Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy

MIN. VAN BUITENLANDSCHE ZAKEN

Administrative and Legal Department . No. 63638 .

Referring to the American Embassy's Memorandum of June 12th , 1947 , ' the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the honour to inform the Embassy that the Netherlands Government have decided to waive from the 15th of August next all visa requirements for American citizens who are the rightful bearers of valid American passports and who wish to proceed to the Netherlands either for a short stay or for transit .
The foregoing does not apply to the Netherlands Overseas territories .
It should be well understood that otherwise the
Netherlands legislation concerning sojourn , establishment and employment of foreigners in this country remains applicable to American citizens as before .
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has noted with pleasure that the American Government contemplate granting to Netherlands subjects who intend to pay a temporary visit to the United States non-immigrant visas which would
be valid for presentation at a port of entry at any time , or any number of times during a period of two years , provided that the passport of the applicant is valid for such period . Should the passport not be valid for the full period of two years at the time the visa is granted but later on be extended by the proper authorities for the full period of two years or more , the visa would be considered as valid for the full period of two years :
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs would appreciate very much if the necessary instructions to that effect
could be issued as soon as possible to all American representatives concerned abroad and to learn when those instructions will come into force .

To the American Embassy.

The Hague , 30th July , 1947. F FOREIGN
O

MINISTRY

AFFAIRS

1 ¹ [Not printed . ]

61 STAT.]

July 30, 1947 NETHERLANDS -PASSPORT VISAS- Aug. 20, 1947

The American Embassy to the Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs

No. 101

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compli-

ments to the Royal Netherlands Ministry for Foreign Affairs, and

has the honor to acknowledge with pleasure the Ministry's Note No.

63638 of July 30, 1947, regarding the decision of the Netherlands

Government to waive from the 15th of August, 1947, all visa require-

ments for American citizens who are the rightful bearers of valid

American passports and who wish to proceed to the Netherlands

either for a short stay or for transit.

It is understood that the waiver does not apply to the Netherlands

overseas territories and that Netherlands legislation concerning so-

journ, establishment and employment of foreigners remains applicable to American citizens as before.

Pursuant to instructions from the Department of State, the Embassy may now inform the Ministry that American Consular Officers are

being instructed , effective September 1 , 1947, to grant non-immigrant visas valid for twenty-four months to Netherlands subjects as long as visa requirements are waived for American citizens proceeding to the Netherlands for a visit or in transit. Visas issued to government

officials and members of international organizations under Sections 3 ( 1 ) and 3 ( 7) of the United States immigration laws will continue to be issued valid for twelve months. The waiver of passport visa

fees for non-immigrant temporary visitors is continued.

In considering the period of validity for two years it should be understood that the visas granted would be valid for presentation

at a port of entry at any time, or any number of times, during the

two year period. It would have no relation to the period of stay

in the country which may be granted to the bearer of such a visa if he is admitted into the country after inspection at the port of entry.

In accordance with existing procedure, the immigration officials at

the port of entry would continue to specify the authorized length of

stay of an alien for each visit. In general the passport of an alien

must be valid for a period of at least 60 days beyond the period of the alien's contemplated stay in the United States.

No visa granted for a period of two years would be valid for such period unless the passport or other acceptable travel document of the bearer is valid for such period. However, if the passport or travel

document is not valid for the full period of two years at the time

the visa is granted the passport or travel document may be extended by the issuing authority for the full period of two years or more, in

which event the visa would be considered as valid for the full period of two years.

THE HAGUE,

W. D. F.

August 20, 1947.

3839

3840

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

July 18, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1731

Understanding between the United States of America and France respecting the allocation of proceeds from the liquidation of German property in Sweden. Effected by exchange of notes dated at Washington July 18, 1946; entered into force July 18, 1946.

The Chief of the United States Delegation to the Chief of the French Delegation

DEAR MR. VALENSI :

WASHINGTON, D. C. July 18, 1946

On behalf of my Government, I may confirm to you the following understanding with respect to the allocation of the proceeds of the German assets to be received from Sweden as a result of the recent 61 Stat. , Pt. 3, p. 3191. Swedish-Allied negotiations in Washington:
1. The sums to be divided are 75 million kronor referred to in 61 Stat., Pt. 3, p. 3207. paragraph 2 of the letter of today dealing with the Swedish "con-
tributions " and 150 million kronor referred to in paragraph 2 of 61 Stat. , Pt. 3, p. 3191. the principal letter of today on German assets . The Swedish Gov-
ernment has indicated its preferences with regard to the use of these sums . Accordingly, applying the proportions agreed in the Paris 61 Stat. , Pt. 3, p. 3159. Reparation Agreement and having regard to the preferences of the Swedish Government, it is estimated that a sum of 12 million kronor will remain after the countries other than the U.S. , U.K. and France have been allotted their full shares out of this sum of 75 million kronor which alone is available to cover their shares.
2. It is agreed that this entire sum of 12 million kronor will be allocated to France. In return, the amount which the U.K. and the U.S. would be entitled to receive from this sum will be included in the shares which these two countries will receive from the 150 million 61 Stat. , Pt. 3, p.3191. kronor referred to in the principal letter. It is estimated that on the 61 Stat. , Pt. 3, p. 3159. basis of the proportions agreed in the Paris Reparation Agreement this will have the effect that, of those 150 million kronor, France will receive 24 million kronor and the U.K. and the U.S. will each receive 63 million kronor.
3. It is understood that the U.K. Representative is addressing a similar note to you , and that this understanding is to be notified to the Inter-Allied Reparation Agency.

Very truly yours ,

Seymour J. Rubin Chief of Delegation of United States M. CHRISTIAN VALENSI Chief of French Delegation

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946
The Chief of the French Delegation to the Chief of the United States Delegation
WASHINGTON, D.C. , 18 Juillet 1946. CHER MONSIEUR RUBIN,
J'ai l'honneur d'accuser reception de votre lettre de ce jour ainsi concue:
"Au nom de mon Gouvernement , je suis en mesure de vous confirmer l'accord suivant en ce qui concerne la repartition du produit des avoirs allemands a recevoir de la Suede comme suite aux negociations qui ont eu lieu recemment entre la Suede et les Allies :
1) Les sommes a repartir comprennent 75 millions de couronnes vises au paragraphe 2 de la lettre de ce jour relative a la ' contribution' suedoise et 150 millions de couronnes vises au paragraphe 2 de la lettre principale de ce jour sur les avoirs allemands . Le Gouvernement suedois a indique ses preferences en ce qui concerne l'emploi de ces sommes . En consequence, en appliquant les pourcentages convenus dans l'Accord de Paris sur les Reparations et en tenant compte des preferences du Gouvernement suedois, il est estime qu'il restera une somme de 12 millions de couronnes, apres qu'il ait ete attribue aux pays autres que les Etats-Unis , le Royaume-Uni et la France la totalite de leurs quote-parts sur cette somme de 75 millions de couronnes , laquelle peut seule etre affectee a ces quote-parts.
2) Il est convenu que la totalite de cette somme de 12 millions de couronnes sera allouee a la France. En contrepartie, la fraction de cette somme a laquelle les Etats-Unis et le Royaume-Uni auraient eu droit sera comprise dans les parts que ces deux pays recevront respectivement sur les 150 millions de couronnes vises dans la lettre principale. Il est estime que, sur la base des pourcentages convenus dans l'Accord de Paris sur les Reparations, cela aura pour effet que, de ces 150 millions de couronnes, la France recevra 24 millions, et le Royaume-Uni et les Etats-Unis recevront chacun 63 millions de couronnes.
3) Il est entendu que le representant du Royaume-Uni vous adresse une lettre semblable a celle-ci , et que cet accord doit etre notifie a l'Agence Interalliee des Reparations." Et de vous confirmer l'accord exprime dans cette lettre./.
J Veuillez agreer, cher Monsieur Rubin, l'assurance de ma haute consideration.
Christian babur
CHRISTIAN VALENSI REPRESENT ANT DU GOUVERNEMENT PROVISOIRE DE LA
REPUELIQUE FRANCAISE MONSIEUR SEYMOUR J. RUBIN,
Departement d'Etat, Washington, D.C.

3841

3842

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

DEAR MR. RUBIN:

WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946.

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today in the following terms:

61 Stat., Pt. 3, p . 3191. 61 Stat., Pt. 3, p. 3207. 61 Stat., Pt. 3, p. 3191. 61 Stat., Pt. 3, p. 3159.
61 Stat., Pt. 3, p . 3191. 61 Stat., Pt. 3, p. 3159.

"On behalf of my Government, I may confirm to you the following understanding with respect to the allocation of the proceeds of the German assets to be received from Sweden as a result of the recent Swedish-Allied negotiations in Washington:
1 ) The sums to be divided are 75 million kronor referred to in paragraph 2 of the letter of today dealing with the Swedish "contribution" and 150 million kronor referred to in paragraph 2 of the principal letter of today on German assets . The Swedish Government has indicated its preferences with regard to the use of the sums . Accordingly, applying the proportions agreed in the Paris Reparation Agreement and having regard to the preferences of the Swedish Government, it is estimated that a sum of 12 million kronor will remain after the countries other than the United States, the United Kingdom and France have been allotted their full shares out of this sum of 75 million kronor which alone is available to cover their shares .
2) It is agreed that this entire sum of 12 million kronor will be allocated to France. In return, the amount which the United Kingdom and the United States would be entitled to receive from this sum will be included in the shares which these two countries will receive from the 150 million kronor referred to in the principal letter. It is estimated that on the basis of the proportions agreed in the Paris Reparation Agreement this will have the effect that, of those 150 million kronor, France will receive 24 million kronor and the United Kingdom and the United States will each receive 63 million kronor.
3) It is understood that the United Kingdom Representative is addressing a similar note to you, and that this understanding is to be notified to the Inter-Allied Reparation Agency."

and to confirm to you the understanding expressed therein.

VERY TRULY YOURS ,

Mr. SEYMOUR J. RUBIN, Department of State, Washington, D. C.

Mr M
CHRISTIAN VALENSI CHIEF OF THE FRENCH DELEGATION

61 STAT.] AUSTRALIA-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES-MAR. 10, 1947

3843

Agreement between the United States of America and Australia respecting air servicefacilities at Eagle Farm and Amberley in Australia. Signed at Canberra March 10, 1947 ; entered into force March 10, 1947.

March 10, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1732]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE GOVERNMENT OF AUSTRALIA AND
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

3844

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF AUSTRALIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

Transfer of air facilities, etc.

The Government of Australia , in consideration of the transfer to

the Government of Australia by the Government of the United States

of America of certain air navigation, air communication and weather

facilities situated at Eagle Farm and Amberley in the State of

Queensland in Australia (in this Agreement referred to as "the

facilities") agrees with the Government of the United States of America as follows.

maOinpteernaantcieo. n and I. To operate and maintain the facilities continuously in a manner adequate for the air traffic operating to and away from the Eagle Farm aerodrome and along the recognised international air routes converging on that aerodrome, and , to ensure this standard of service , to abide by approved Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation standards of operation unless and until those standards are changed by any other international agreement to which the Government of Australia and the Government of the United States are both parties. II. To provide the full service of all facilities to all aircraft on a non-discriminatory basis with charges, if any, only for non-operational messages until an international agreement on charges has been promulgated by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation . III. To transmit weather reports as prescribed by the Weather Service of the United States to designated stations of the United States and to such other stations as are necessary to ensure an integrated meteorological network for international air-routes unless and until other provision is made by international agreement to which the Government of the United States is a party concerning civil and military meteorological requirements.
IV. To continue the operation of all types of facilities at their original locations or on new locations mutually agreed by the Government of Australia and the Government of the United States until new
facilities are installed in accordance with the standards promulgated by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation or until it is mutually agreed by the Government of Australia and the Government of the United States that there is no longer a need for the original facilities, it being understood that such of the original facilities as are devoted to the aeronautical communication service will be devoted
exclusively to that service and will not be diverted to the general communication service.

V. To provide English speaking operators at air-to-ground and control tower communication positions until regulations covering such

61 STAT. ] AUSTRALIA-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES-MAR. 10, 1947

3845

voice transmissions are promulgated by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation and further, until such regulations are promulgated, to grant permission to a representative of the United States air carriers authorised to serve an aerodrome to enter its control tower and, when in the opinion of the representative a case of necessity exists, to talk to the pilot of any United States aircraft flying in the vicinity of the aerodrome.
VI. To select radio frequencies for air-to-ground and control tower operations at an aerodrome only after co-ordination with the United
States air carriers using the aerodrome and with adjacent stations in the recognised international air routes converging on the aerodrome in order to minimise -

(a) radio interference ; and (b) the number of frequencies required to be operated by aircraft.
VII. To authorise and facilitate day-to -day adjustment in aeronautical communication service matters by direct communication between the operating agency of the Government of Australia and the service agency of the Government of the United States, United States air carriers or a communication company representing one or more of them. VIII. To authorise United States air carriers of the Civil Aeronautics Administration of the United States to designate a technical officer to advise and assist the agency designated by the Government of Australia to operate the facilities insofar as they relate to the safety and efficiency of the United States airline operations. This designation is to continue as long as it is useful to United States air carriers.
IN FAITH WHEREOF the Plenipotentiaries of the Government of Australia and the Government of the United States of America have hereunto signed their names.
DONE in duplicate at Canberra this tenth day of March, in the year of Our Lord, One thousand nine hundred and forty-seven.

Technical officer.

For the Government of Australia.

H EVATT

For the Government of the United States of America.

ROBERT BUTLER

3846

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

February 10, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1733]

Protocol between the United States of America, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and France respecting the establishment of a Four Power Naval Commission, the disposal of excess units of the Italian fleet, and the return by the Soviet Union of United States and British warships on loan. Signed at Paris February 10, 1947 ; entered into force February 10, 1947.

PROTOCOL

on the Establishment of a Four Power Naval Commission, the Disposal of Excess Units of the Italian Fleet, and the Return by the Soviet Union of warships on loan.
PART I.

61 Stat., Pt. 2, p. 1461.
Allocation of excess units of Italian fleet.
61 Stat., Pt. 2, p. 1461. Post, p. 3849.
Ownership.

WHEREAS the Treaty of Peace with Italy provides that all the excess units of the Italian Fleet, as listed in Annex XII B of the said Treaty, shall be placed at the disposal of the Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America, and of France ;
AND WHEREAS it is necessary to make provision for the final disposal among certain Allied and Associated Powers of the said excess units ;
The Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America, and of France have therefore agreed as follows: 1.- The excess units of the Italian Fleet as listed in Annex XII B of the Treaty of Peace with Italy, and as finally verified on 1st January 1947, shall be allocated as set out in the Annex of this Proto-
col. No modification of the list of ships in Annex XII B will be accepted, irrespective of the date of any damage to or loss of such ships, the Italian Government being held responsible for the security and maintenance of such excess units up to the time at which each transfer is completed.
2. Upon transfer by the Italian Government, the vessels concerned shall respectively vest in full ownership in the States hereby becoming entitled thereto , subject to the following exceptions:
(a) The Governments of the Soviet Union and of France take note: that the Governments of the United Kingdom and of the United States of America have undertaken to meet, at least in part, and out of the tonnage at their disposal, the claims of certain other Powers for Italian naval vessels ; furthermore, that in regard to any such Italian naval vessels as the Government of the United States

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-ITALIAN FLEET, ETC.-FEB. 10, 1947

3847

of America may elect to transfer to other Powers, the Government of the United States of America will accept temporary custody only, and, upon transfer of custody by the United States Government to any such Power, full ownership will pass from the Italian Government to that Power.

(b) None of the Governments concerned shall be obliged to accept any ship assigned to it under this Protocol if such Government

deems the ship unsuitable for its purpose, but in that case the Four

Powers shall ensure that such ship, unless it is an auxiliary naval vessel, be scrapped or sunk by the Italian Government within nine months from the coming into force of the Treaty. 3.- A Commission , to be known as the Four Power Naval Commis-

61 Stat., Pt. 2, p. 1245.
Four Power Naval Commission.

sion, shall be set up, to meet for the first time immediately after the signature both of the Treaty of Peace with Italy and of this Protocol. This Commission shall make all detailed arrangements necessary to effect the transfer of the excess units of the Italian

Fleet, together with their spare parts and armament stores , to the beneficiary Powers, in conformity with the naval clauses of the said Treaty.

4.- By invitation of the French Government, the Commission will

meet in Paris, where it will operate under the authority of the

Council of Foreign Ministers, and carry out all preliminary work practicable prior to the coming into force of the Treaty.

5. Upon the coming into force of the Treaty, the Commission will move to Rome, where it will operate under the authority of the Ambassadors of the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom , the United States of America and of France.

6.- All orders and instructions by the Commission shall be issued in the name of the Four Ambassadors , and shall be communicated by them to the Italian Government for execution.

7.- The Commission shall have the right to co-opt the services of representatives of Greece, Yugoslavia and Albania, when matters affecting these States are under discussion , and to call for such Italian representation as may be found necessary to the execution of the work of the Commission .
8.- The Annex to this Protocol will be published at a later date.

Post, p. 3849.

PART II.

AND WHEREAS , by agreement between the Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics , the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and the United States of America, certain warships of the Royal Navy and of the United States Navy were, in 1944, transferred on loan to the Government of the Soviet Union ;
AND WHEREAS it is necessary to make provision for the return to the Governments of the United Kingdom and of the United States of America of the aforementioned warships now on loan ;
The Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the

3848

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Return of vessels on loan to Soviet Union.

United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and the United States of America have further agreed as follows :
9. The representatives of the abovementioned three Governments on the Commission shall coordinate the arrangements for the return to the Governments of the United States of America and of

the United Kingdom of the vessels on loan to the Government of the Soviet Union , as listed in paragraph 10 below. The return of such vessels to United Kingdom and United States ports shall, as

far as possible, be effected simultaneously with the transfer to the Soviet Union of the excess units of the Italian Fleet allocated to her.

10. List of Vessels on Loan from the United Kingdom

Battleship Destroyers

British Name ROYAL SOVEREIGN ST ALBANS BRIGHTON RICHMOND CHELSEA LEAMINGTON ROXBURGH GEORGETOWN

Temporary Russian Name ARCHANGELSK
DOSTOINY ZHARKY ZHYVUCHY DERZKY ZHGUCHY DOBLESTNY ZHOSTKY

Submarines

UNBROKEN UNISON URSULA

B.2 B.3 B.4

Vessel on Loan from the United States

Effective date; authentic texts.

Cruiser

United States Name MILWAUKEE

Temporary Russian Name MURMANSK

In faith whereof the Undersigned Plenipotentiaries have signed the present Protocol, which will take effect immediately, the English, French and Russian texts ['] being equally authentic.
Done in Paris this 10th day of February 1947

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS :
A BOGOMOLOV.

[ SEAL]

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND :
DUFF COOPER

[SEAL]

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA :
JEFFERSON CAFFERY

[SEAL]

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF FRANCE :
G BIDAULT

[SEAL]

[French and Russian language texts are deposited with the Protocol in the archives of the Department of State.]

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- ITALIAN FLEET, ETC.-FEB. 10, 1947

Type

Uofnion Soocviiaeltist
Republics

KUofniintgeddom aGBrniedtaatin NIroerltahnedrn

ANNEX

UStnaitteesd oAPafmterica

France

Greece

SOAUTIFXBPW. IPTNFLERHINIEAILEAETNCLTOECAHEISYCTETXFAAYINTEIDON Yugoslavia Albania

Battleships Cruisers

GCIEUSLAIROE
EFIMLIA-NUELE BERTO
D'UACOASTA

Sloop Destroyers

ARTIGLIERE FUCILIERE
ARIUBGOUTSYTO

Tboartpsedo

ANIMOSO ARDIMENTOSO
FORTUNALE

Submarines MAREA NICHELIO

ALAGI ATROPO

.5,6tMNM312oooSrstpoedro

N7,.M.324oSs

boats

67, 5

MN5., 12oA960sS

521

51124

4M.N0oE.

NM.41oE.

Gunboat

Minesweepers

COLL

Vedettes

,2.VN4oA865sS

LCraanfdting 7N.,M87o1Z08s

,8.7MN308oZ104s

Tankers

STIGE

VITIEATNLTEIOTAROIO
DANDOLO PLATINO N.1,2M14oSs 31 5. 62 M.N38oE.
MN77,. 54oZ784s6.7 PROMETEO

CANO

ARTETGIOLLIOO

EUGENIO

PMOAMGPNEOIO

dSiAVOIA

ASFCRIIP-IONE

ERITREA

LEGIONARIO MITRAGLIERE AORLIFARNEIDO
VELITE

ALISEO ARIETE
INDOMITO

GIADA VORTICE

3N5,.M54oSs

M.N4,52341oA387045sS

2NV,.. 34oA710sS M.N7, 2oZ26s
7, 32879
URANO

TCARVISIO

2,.61RN16oDs 2, 8597
M.N7, 1oZ37s

ILLYRIA

3849

3850

CI.-oTnAtLinYued

AOXUTIFSABPWINPTFLEIRHNIEAILEATENCLTOECHAEISCTETFXAAYINTEIDON

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Type

Uofnion Socviiaeltist
Republics

KUofniintgeddom GBarniedtaatin NIroerltahnedrn

UStnaitteesd oAfmerica

France

Greece

Yugoslavia Albania

CWaartreierrs

BASENTO ISTRIA LIRI
POLCEVERA

METAURO TIMAVO

DALMAZIA IDRIA

 BISAGNO SPRUGOLA
TIRSO

DSheippot

ANTEO

TSrhaiipning

COR-ISTOFORO LOMBO

AMuixniel-iary

FASANA

layer

Transports

MONTECUCCO SINA

GMEISU-SEPPE

PANIGAGLIA

T(L) aurggse

Cd'AIPSOTRIA LAMPEDUSA
PAODRTIOANO RAPALLO
SAANNGELO TALAMONE TIFEO VIGOROSO

CARBONARA LISCANERA MESCO PROCIDA SALVORE
SAANNTIOCO

ARSACHENA ERCOLE

CEFALU

LIPARI

GAETA

NEREO

MARECHIARO

QPUOIRETTOO

PTORRTEOS

PTROIRCTAOSE

TEULADA

PROMONTORE

TAORMINA

VADO

8)T( muaglsl

3,89N. 7054.os

N,2M.34O.oVs BB:P1LLEANDE

FRE NOLI
VOLOSCA

GVLIEACNLAETRAALE 2,3N. 836.os

ATERNO

ISARCO
BASILUZZO MOLARA
PCORNTOE SRAENMO

61 STAT. ]

Sept. 26, 1946 DENMARK-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES- Oct. 1, 1946

3851

Arrangement between the United States of America and Denmark respecting air service facilities at Kastrup airport in Denmark. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Copenhagen September 26 and October 1 , 1946; entered into force October 1, 1946.

September 26, October 1, 1946
[T. I. A. S. 1734]

The American Minister to the Danish Minister for Foreign Affairs

AMERICAN LEGATION

No. 304

Copenhagen, Denmark September 26, 1946

EXCELLENCY :
U. S. facilities at I have the honor to refer to the Legation's Aide Memoire of April Kastrup airport.

30, 1946, [ ¹ ] with regard to the United States Army air navigation, air

communication and weather facilities located at Kastrup airport and

to the communication of July 9, 1946, [ ¹ ] from Direktøren for Luftfartsvaesenet on the same subject.

I am instructed by my Government to inform Your Excellency that

my Government is prepared to turn over to the Royal Danish Govern-

ment the facilities mentioned above, under the following arrangement :

"The Danish Government agree :

Operation and maintenance by Danish Government.

1. To operate and maintain the facilities in a manner adequate

for the air traffic in the airport at which the facilities are located

and along the recognized international air routes converging on

that airport and in pursuance of the rules for the time being in force within PICAO, of which Denmark is a member.

2. To provide on a non-discriminatory basis the service of the facilities to all aircraft under the rules of PICAO. All messages per-

mitted under PICAO shall be conveyed , and computation of charges,

if any, shall also be made in pursuance of the rules of PICAO.

3. To instruct the Danish Meteorological Aeronautical Service to

take care that the messages necessary for the air traffic and the

meteorological institutions are transmitted according to the rules laid

down by PICAO and OMI, and to transmit to aircraft over Danish

territory the messages necessary for the air traffic.

4. To keep and operate the facilities in the airport of Copen-

Airport of Copenhagen.

hagen until new facilities are supplied in pursuance of the rules

fixed by PICAO, or until it may be agreed upon between the Danish

and United States Governments that there is no longer a need for

the original facllities for complying with PICAO's rules. The Danish Government agree that the facilities will be devoted exclusively to the aeronautical service and will not be diverted to other communication service.

1 ¹

[Not

printed.

]

3852

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
5. To provide staff at the air, ground , and tower services in pursuance of the PICAO's rules . The Danish authorities will , if and when in their opinion it is of importance for the service, call in a representative of the owner of the aircraft concerned.
6. To use to the necessary extent the frequencies for air, ground, and control tower operations laid down by PICAO.
7. To permit direct contact between the Sections of the Civil Air Department in the airport of Copenhagen and the local representatives of USA airlines.
The United States Government agrees :
1. To include in the transfer of the facilities one year's consumption of maintenance parts and expendable supplies, wherever their stocks permit.
2. To do everything possible to assist the Government of Denmark or its representatives in purchasing through regular commercial channels maintenance parts and expendable supplies for the operation of the facilities."

Ante, p. 3851.

I should appreciate being advised by Your Excellency whether the Royal Danish Government is likewise agreeable to this arrangement

so that necessary documents of transfer may be completed by the competent authorities of our two Governments.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .

His Excellency GUSTAV RASMUSSEN

JOSIAH MARVEL, Jr.

Royal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Copenhagen

The Danish Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Minister

UDENRIGSMINISTERIET.

Ø. P. III. Journal Nr. 93 Dan. 1/3.

MONSIEUR LE MINISTRE,

COPENHAGEN, October 1, 1946.

I have the honour to acknowledge with thanks the receipt of your

note No. 304 of September 26, 1946 , in which you have been good enough to inform me of the terms of an arrangement between Denmark and the United States of America, under which the American Govern-

ment is prepared to transfer to the Danish Government the United States Army air navigation , air communication and weather facilities located at Kastrup airport.

In reply, I have the honour to inform you, that the Danish Government accept this arrangement, which reads as follows :

61 STAT. ] DENMARK-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES- Sept. 26, 1946 Oct. 1 , 1946
"The Danish Government agree :
1. To operate and maintain the facilities in a manner adequate for the air traffic in the airport at which the facilities are located and along the recognized international air routes converging on that airport and in pursuance of the rules for the time being in force within PICAO, of which Denmark is a member.
2. To provide on a non-discriminatory basis the service of the facilities to all aircraft under the rules of PICAO. All messages permitted under PICAO shall be conveyed, and computation of charges, if any, shall also be made in pursuance of the rules of PICAO.
3. To instruct the Danish Meteorological Aeronautical Service to take care that the messages necessary for the air traffic and the meteorological institutions are transmitted according to the rules laid down by PICAO and I, and to transmit to aircraft over Danish territory the messages necessary for the air traffic.
4. To keep and operate the facilities in the airport of Copenhagen until new facilities are supplied in pursuance of the rules fixed by PICAO, or until it may be agreed upon between the Danish and United States Governments that there is no longer a need for the original facilities for complying with PICAO's rules. The Danish Government agree that the facilities will be devoted exclusively to the aeronautical service and will not be diverted to other communication service.
5. To provide staff at the air, ground , and tower services in pursuance of the PICAO's rules. The Danish authorities will, if and when in their opinion it is of importance for the service, call in a representative of the owner of the aircraft concerned.
6. To use to the necessary extent the frequencies for air, ground, and control tower operations laid down by PICAO.
7. To permit direct contact between the Sections of the Civil Air Department in the airport of Copenhagen and the local representatives of USA airlines.
The United States Government agrees :
1. To include in the transfer of the facilities one year's consumption of maintenance parts and expendable supplies, wherever their stocks permit.
2. To do everything possible to assist the Government of Denmark or its representatives in purchasing through regular commercial channels maintenance parts and expendable supplies for the operation of the facilities. "
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you, Monsieur le Ministre, the assurances of my highest consideration.
GUSTAV RASMUSSEN.
Monsieur JOSIAH MARVEL, jr., Minister of the United States of America, Copenhagen.
95347°-50- PT. IV- -33

3853

61 STAT.] SIAM- AIR SERVICE FACILITIES-MAY 8, 1947

3855

Agreement between the United States of America and Siam respecting air service facilities at Don Muang airport and Bangkapi in Siam. Signed at Bangkok May 8, 1947; entered into force May 8, 1947.

May 8, 1947 [T. I. A. 8. 1735]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE GOVERNMENT OF SIAM AND
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

3856

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE GOVERNMENT OF SIAM AND
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Services by Government of Siam.

The Government of Siam, in consideration of the transfer to the

Government of Siam by the Government of the United States of

America of certain air navigation , air communication and weather facilities situated at Don Muang Airport in the District of Bangkhen

and also at Bangkapi in Siam (in this Agreement referred to as "the

facilities") agrees with the Government of the United States of America as follows.

teOnpaenrcaet. ionandmain- I. To operate and maintain the facilities continuously in a manner adequate for the air traffic operating to and away from the Don Muang aerodrome and along the recognised international air routes converging on that aerodrome, and , to ensure this standard of service, to abide by approved Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation standards of operation unless and until those standards are changed by any other international agreement to which the Government of Siam and the Government of the United States are both parties.
II. To provide the full service of all facilities to all aircraft on a non-discriminatory basis with charges, if any, only for nonoperational messages until an international agreement on charges has been promulgated by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation.
III. To transmit weather reports as prescribed by the Weather Service of the United States to designated stations of the United States and to such other stations as are necessary to ensure an integrated meteorological network for international air-routes unless and until other provision is made by international agreement to which the Government of the United States is a party concerning civil and military meteorological requirements.

IV. To continue the operation of all types of facilities at their original locations or on new locations mutually agreed by the Government of Siam and the Government of the United States until new facilities are installed in accordance with the standards promulgated by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation or until it is mutually agreed by the Government of Siam and the Government of the United States that there is no longer a need for the original facilities, it being understood that such of the original facilities as are

61 STAT.] SIAM-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES-MAY 8, 1947
devoted to the aeronautical communication service will be devoted exclusively to that service and will not be diverted to the general communication service.
V. To provide English speaking operators at air-to-ground and control tower communication positions until regulations covering such voice transmissions are promulgated by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation and further, until such regulations are promulgated, to grant permission to a representative of the United States air carriers authorised to serve an aerodrome to enter its control tower and, when in the opinion of the representative a case of necessity exists, to talk to the pilot of any United States aircraft flying in the vicinity of the aerodrome.
VI. To select radio frequencies for air-to-ground and control tower operations at an aerodrome only after coordination with the United States air carriers using the aerodrome and with adjacent stations in the recognised international air routes converging on the aerodrome in order to minimise -

3857

(a) radio interference ; and (b) the number of frequencies required to be operated by aircraft.
VII. To authorise and facilitate day-to-day adjustment in aeronautical communication service matters by direct communication between the operating agency of the Government of Siam and the service agency of the Government of the United States, United States air carriers or a communication company representing one or more of them .
VIII. To authorise United States air carriers of the Civil Aeronautics Administration of the United States to designate a technical officer to advise and assist the agency designated by the Government of Siam to operate the facilities insofar as they relate to the safety and efficiency of the United States airline operations. This designation is to continue as long as it is useful to United States air carriers.
IX. ( a) To furnish in sufficient number suitable personnel to be trained to operate and maintain all facilities transferred under this sale.
(b) To negotiate a supplemental agreement to be entered into by the agency of the Siamese Government which will eventually take over the operation of the facilities and the agency of the United States Government, or its representative, which undertakes the training and interim operation and maintenance of the facilities free of any charges or emolument, pending transfer of full operating responsibility to the agency of the Siamese Government. The supplemental agreement will define the responsibility, authority, and relations between the above mentioned agencies and their representatives during the period the United States agency remains in charge of the operation, maintenance, and training.

Technical officer.

3858

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

GoSveerrvnimceents. ofU. S. X. The United States Government, through either the Army, Navy, CAA or private agency agrees :

(a) To include in the sale of the basic installations, wherever Theater surplus stocks permit, one year's supply of maintenance parts and expendable supplies .
(b) To do everything possible to assist the Government of Siam or its representative in purchasing, through regular commercial channels, maintenance parts and expendable supplies for the operation of the facilities.
(c) To operate and maintain the facilities until such time when the Air Attache to the United States Embassy, Bangkok, is assured the Government of Siam is prepared to assume full responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the facilities as hereinabove provided .
(d) To train the personnel selected by the Government of Siam pursuant to paragraph IX above, as long as an agency of the United States operates and maintains the facilities in accordance with paragraph (c) above.
IN FAITH WHEREOF the Representatives of the Government of Siam and the Government of the United States of America have hereunto
signed their names. SIGNED in Bangkok, Siam , this eighth day of May nineteen hundred
and forty-seven.

For the Government of the United States of America.

Department of State
Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner
Central Field Commission China Pacific Area.

AleJaarnnnear
JA. Warner Director, Fixed Installation Division.

For the Government of Siam.

Ministry of Communications.

Witnesses :

Plum Surkhand Bidyckan
Phra Suvabhand Bidyakar. Director-General of the Department of Transport.

LangeNikonhang.

61 STAT. ] SWITZERLAND AIR SERVICE FACILITIES-APR. 30, 1947

3859

Agreement between the United States of America and Switzerland respecting SCS-51 equipment at Cointrin airport in Switzerland. Signed at Bern April 30, 1947; entered into force April 30, 1947.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE SWISS GOVERNMENT AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA REGARDING SCS-51 EQUIPMENT AT COINTRIN AIRPORT, GENEVA, SWITZERLAND

April 30, 1947 [T. I. 4. 8. 1736]

THE SWISS GOVERNMENT AGREES :
1. To operate and maintain the SCS- 51 equipment continuously in a manner adequate for the air traffic operating into and away from Cointrin Airport, Geneva, where this equipment is now located, and along the recognized international air routes converging on that airdrome ; and, in order to insure the standard of service, the Swiss Government agrees to abide by approved International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standards of operation unless changed by other international agreement to which the Governments ofthe United States and Switzerland are parties. Allowance is to be made, of course, for possible unavoidable interruption of the continuous operation which may result from breakdown in the equipment ; but every effort will be made to repair any electrical or mechanical defects of the equipment as soon as may be possible.
2. To install and place into operation parts of the SCS- 51 equipment not yet installed as soon as the necessary special parts already ordered will have been delivered and assembled . It is understood that in the interest of safety of air traffic every possible step will be taken to hasten the putting into operation of the whole equipment.
3. To provide the full service of the SCS -51 to all aircraft on a nondiscriminatory basis.
4. To continue the operation of SCS-51 equipment in its original location at Cointrin Airport, Geneva, or at a new location mutually agreed upon between the Governments of the United States and Switzerland until this equipment may be replaced in accordance with standards promulgated by the International Civil Aviation Organization or until it is determined by the Governments of Switzerland and the United States that there is no longer need for the original equipment.
5. To authorize the United States air carrier or the Civil Aeronautics Administration of the United States to designate a technical advisor to assist and advise the agency designated by the Swiss Government to operate the SCS-51 so far as it relates to the safety and efficiency of the operation of United States aircraft, and in conformity with approved International Civil Aviation Organization standards of operation. This designation is to continue as long as it is useful to the United States air carrier. The Swiss agency will not, however,

3860

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
be bound to act on the advice given should it be found contrary to Swiss interests.

THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA THROUGH EITHER THE UNITED STATES ARMY OR THE CIVIL AERONAUTICS ADMINISTRATION OR A DESIGNATED PRIVATE AGENCY AGREES :

1. To include in the sale of the basic installation one year's supply of maintenance parts and expendable supplies to the extent that the Theater's surplus stocks permit.
2. To do everything possible to assist the Swiss Government or its representative in purchasing through regular commercial channels maintenance parts and expendable supplies for the operation of the SCS-51.
Done at Bern in duplicate this 30th day of April, 1947.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF SWITZERLAND

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Clex
Louis Clerc , Chief Federal Air Office

Leland Harrison American Minister

61 STAT. ] NORWAY-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES-NOV. 12, 1946

3861

Agreement between the United States of America and Norway respecting air service facilities at Gardermoen airfield in Norway. Signed at Oslo November 12, 1946; entered into force November 12, 1946.

November 12, 1946 [T. I. A. 8. 1737]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE ROYAL NORWEGIAN GOV . ERNMENT AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA REGARDING AIR COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES AT GARDERMOEN AIRFIELD , NORWAY.

The Government of Norway agrees :

Services of Government of Norway.

1. To operate and maintain all facilities continuously in a manner adequate for the air traffic operating into and away from the airdrome at which the facilities are located and along the recognized international air routes converging on that airdrome, and , in order to insure this standard of service, the Norwegian Government agrees to abide by approved Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization (PICAO) standards of operations unless changed by other international agreement to which the Government of the United States and the Norwegian Government are parties. (Allowance is to be made, of course, for possible unavoidable interruptions of the continuous operation which may result from break-downs in the equipment ; in the case of any facilities which have not yet been placed in operation because they have not been properly calibrated , or of other facilities temporarily out of commission because of electrical or mechanical defects, every effort will be made to bring them into operation as soon as may be possible. )
2. To provide the full service of all facilities to all aircraft on a non-discriminatory basis with charges, if any, only for non-operational messages until an international agreement on charges has been promulgated by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization.
3. To continue the operation of all types of facilities in their original location or at new locations mutually agreed upon by the Government of the United States and the Norwegian Government until new facilities are installed in accordance with standards promulgated by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization , or until it is determined by the Government of Norway and the United States Government that there is no longer a need for the original facilities : it being understood that the aeronautical communication service facilities will be devoted exclusively to that service and will not be diverted to the general communication service.
4. To provide English-speaking operators at air-to-ground and control tower communication positions until regulations covering such voice transmissions are promulgated by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization and further, until such regulations are promulgated, to grant permission to a representative of

3862

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

the United States air carriers authorized to serve an airdrome to enter its control tower and, when in the opinion of the representative a case of necessity exists, to talk to the pilot of any United States aircraft flying in the vicinity of the airdrome, it being understood that the representative will in each instance obtain permission to enter the tower from the officer in charge.
5. To select radio frequencies for air-to-ground and control tower operations only after coordination with the using United States carriers and with adjacent stations on the recognized international air routes converging on the airdrome in order to minimize :

(a ) radio interference, and

(b) the number of frequencies required to be operated by aircraft.

6. To authorize and facilitate day-to-day adjustments in air communication service matters relating to the equipment covered under

Technical adviser.

this agreement, by direct communication between the operating agency of Norway and the service agency of the United States Government, United States carriers, or a communication company representing one or more of them.
7. To authorize United States air carriers or the Civil Aeronautics

Administration of the United States to designate a technical adviser to advise and assist the agency designated by the Norwegian Government to operate the facilities so far as they relate to the safety and

efficiency of United States airline operations. This designation is to continue as long as it is useful to United States air carriers. The Norwegian agency will not, however, be bound to act on the advice

Services of U. S. Government.

given should it be found contrary to Norwegian interests. The Government of the United States of America, through either
the United States Army, United States Navy, Civil Aeronautics Administration, or private agency agrees :

(a) To include in the sale of the basic installations one year's supply of maintenance parts and expendable supplies to the extent that theater surplus stocks permit.

(b) To do everything possible to assist the Government of Norway, or its representative, in purchasing through regular commercial
channels maintenance parts and expendable supplies for the operation of the facilities.

Signed in duplicate at Oslo, Norway, November 12, 1946.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF NORWAY

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Nils Langhelle NII Langhelde
Statsraad for Samferdselsdept . (Minister of Communications)

@limalliturum Cloyce K. Huston
Charge d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America

61 STAT.]

Aug. 26, 1947 BOLIVIA CIVIL AVIATION MISSION-

Nov. 3, 1947

3863

Agreement between the United States of America and Bolivia respecting a civil aviation mission to Bolivia. Effected by exchange of notes
signed at La Paz August 26 and November 3, 1947; entered into force November 3, 1947.

August 26, November 3, 1947
[T. I. A. S. 1739]

The American Ambassador to the Bolivian Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

LA PAZ, BOLIVIA,

No. 396

August 26, 1947.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the negotiations being carried on be-

tween our two Governments for the sending to Bolivia of a technical mission from the United States Civil Aeronautics Administration for

the purpose of assisting in the development of Bolivian civil aviation.

I now present herein, under instructions of my Government, for the consideration of your Excellency's Government, the text of a Statement of Conditions which my Government proposes as a basis for the operations of such mission in Bolivia, and I would be very appreciative if your Excellency would inform me if the text of Conditions meets with the approval of the Bolivian Government. In the event of approval, I would likewise appreciate Your Excellency's kindness in communicating to the Embassy the note of acceptance of your Government, including, as herein, the text of the Statement of Conditions which appears below, in order that I may forward it to my Government :

"Statement of Conditions

Technical Assistance Mission to Bolivia

1. Subject to the availability of suitable technicians and appropriated funds for the purpose, the Government of the United States of America shall make available to the Government of Bolivia the services of technicians in the field of civil aviation as requested by the Government of Bolivia.
2. The Government of Bolivia shall reimburse the Government of the United States of America at the rate of $2,000 per year for the
Chief of Mission and $1,500 per year for each additional member toward the expenses incurred in connection with the assignment of these experts. Such reimbursement shall be effected at the completion of each six-month period of each assignment. However, for accounting

Reimbursement.

3864

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

and procedural reasons, it will not be necessary for the Government of Bolivia to make any payments to the Government of the United States of America until such time as the Government of Bolivia

shall have received a statement of its obligation in this connection. 3. The Government of Bolivia shall provide for entry free of
customs duties of supplies, materials and effects for the professional and personal use of the technicians.
4. The Government of Bolivia shall provide the technicians with means of transportation within Bolivia.

5. The Government of Bolivia shall provide the technicians with suitably-equipped office space and necessary clerical assistance and bear the cost thereof, as well as reimburse the Government of the

United States up to a limit of $2,400 per year for the cost of bilingual stenographic assistance.
6. The Government of Bolivia shall permit the transportation of the body of any technician detailed under these conditions who may die in Bolivia, to a place of burial in the United States of America

selected by the surviving members of the family or their legal

representatives .

Periods of assignments.

7. Unless otherwise agreed to , the assignments of the technicians

shall be for periods of not to exceed one year each, including travel

time.

8. If, after the expiration of the periods of assignments, it appears that all of the objectives have not been attained , the Government of the United States of America agrees to give the fullest consideration to any request of the Government of Bolivia for the extension of

Salaries, etc.

expenses,

the assignments for additional periods of not to exceed six months each .
9. The Government of the United States of America shall pay the
salary, allowances, travel expenses to and from Bolivia, and any

additional compensation of the technicians, subject to partial reim-

bursement by the Government of Bolivia at the rate indicated hereinabove.

10. The Government of the United States of America proposes to detail under these conditions an expert in air traffic control and related airway facilities and an expert in communications engineering. Prior to effecting their assignments, the names, together with a description of their qualifications will be submitted to the Government of Bolivia for approval.
11. The Government of the United States of America agrees to give the fullest consideration to any requests of the Government of Bolivia for an increase in the number of members of the Mission or for the

Chief of Mission, etc.

assignment of experts in fields of civil aviation other than those specified in paragraph ten.
12. The Government of the United States of America will designate a Chief of Mission who will represent the Mission before the Government of Bolivia. Members of the Mission will be responsible to the Chief of Mission. All members of the Mission will serve as advisors

61 STAT.] BOLIVIA CIVIL AVIATION MISSION-Aug. 2 Nov. 36, , 1947 1947

3865

to the Government of Bolivia within their respective fields, but may volunteer opinions on related civil aviation matters when deemed advisable.
13. The Government of Bolivia shall assume civil liability on ac-

Damages, etc.

count of damages to or loss of property or on account of personal
injury or death caused by any member of the Mission while acting
within the scope of his duties. Nontaxability of
14. Compensation of Mission members shall not be subject to any tax compensation. now or hereafter in effect of the Government of Bolivia or any of its

political or administrative subdivisions. Should there, however, at present or while this agreement is in effect , be any taxes that might

affect this compensation, such taxes shall be paid by the Government
of Bolivia in order to comply with the provisions of this paragraph. Confidential or
15. Mission personnel, during the time it is in operation and there- secret matters.
after, undertake not to divulge or reveal in any form to any foreign Government, or any person, confidential or secret matters of which
they may become cognizant in the exercise of their duties.

16. The above conditions may be modified in whole or in part by an exchange of notes between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Bolivia."

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
JOSEPH FLACK.
HIS EXCELLENCY, Doctor GERMÁN COSTAS, Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs and Worship, La Paz.

The Bolivian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

No. TC. y ONU. 935SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

LA PAZ, 3 de noviembre de 1947.

Con respecto a las negociaciones llevadas a efecto entre el Gobierno de Bolivia y el de Vuestra Excelencia para la contratación de una misión técnica de la Administración de Aeronáutica de los Estados

Unidos, destinada a colaborar en el desarrollo de la Aviación Civil Bo-

liviana, tengo a honra referirme a la atenta nota de esa H. Embajada

No. 396, de 26 de agosto último, en la cual se dignó insertar un Pliego de Condiciones al que deberá sujetarse el personal de dicha misión en el desenvolvimiento de sus funciones.

3866

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
Sobre el particular, me es grato expresar a Vuestra Excelencia que el citado Pliego de Condiciones ha merecido la aprobación de mi Gobierno y, en consecuencia, me es honroso trascribir a continuación el texto pertinente en su versión castellana :
"Pliego de Condiciones
Misión Técnica en Bolivia.
1.- De acuerdo a la disponibilidad de técnicos adecuados y de fondos para este fín, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, pondrá a disposición del Gobierno de Bolivia los servicios de técnicos en el campo de la aviación civil, en la forma como este Gobierno los solicite.
2.- El Gobierno de Bolivia reembolsará al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos a razón de $us. 2.000.- per año, por el Jefe de la Misión, y $us. 1.500.- per año por cada miembro adicional, para cubrir los gastos realizados en conexión con la designación de estos expertos. Tal reembolso se efectuará seis meses después de cada designación. Sin embargo, por motivos de contabilidad y razones de procedimiento , no será necesario que el Gobierno de Bolivia efectúe ningún pago al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos , hasta que el Gobierno de Bolivia reciba las condiciones concernientes a esta obligación. 3.- El Gobierno de Bolivia concederá liberación de derechos de aduana a los materiales, provisiones y efectos de uso profesional y personal de los técnicos.
4.- El Gobierno de Bolivia proveerá a los técnicos , de medios de transporte en Bolivia. 5.- El Gobierno de Bolivia facilitará a los técnicos, de oficinas espaciosas provistas de lo necesario, de suficientes auxiliares y ayudantes, manteniendo el costo de éstos, así como también reembolsará al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, una suma limitada de no más de $us. 2.400.- per año para sostener los servicios de una estenógrafa bilingüe.
6.- El Gobierno de Bolivia permitirá el traslado de los restos de cualquier técnico mencionado en este contrato que falleciere en Bolivia, al lugar de entierro en los Estados Unidos, indicado por sus familiares o sus representantes legales.
7.-A menos que resuelva de otro modo, la designación de los técnicos será por períodos que no excedan de un año en cada caso, incluyendo el término del viaje.
8.- Si después de la expiración de los anteriores términos, resultara que todos los objetivos no han sido llenados, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos acepta prestar la más completa y amplia consideración a cualquier solicitud del Gobierno de Bolivia para extender el período de las designaciones, pero por un término que no exceda de seis meses en cada caso.

61 STAT. ]

BOLIVIA

CIVIL

AVIATION

MISSION_Aug.

26,1947 3,

Nov. 1947

9.- El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, pagará salarios, asignaciones, gastos de viaje de ida y vuelta ( entre Bolivia y los Estados Unidos ) y cualquier compensación adicional a los técnicos, bajo lo condición de un reembolso parcial del Gobierno de Bolivia en la proporción establecida anteriormente.

10.- El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, bajo estas condiciones se propone destacar un experto en control de tráfico aéreo y las correspondientes facilidades aéreas, y un experto en ingeniería de comunicaciones. Antes de designarlos , se someterá a la consideración del Gobierno de Bolivia para su aprobación , los nombres y los antecedentes de estos técnicos.
11. - El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, acepta prestar la más completa consideración a cualquier solicitud del Gobierno de Bolivia para aumentar el número de los miembros de la Misión o para designar en el campo de la aviación civil otros técnicos de los mencionados en el párrafo 10.

12.- El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, designará un Jefe de Misión quien representará a la Misión ante el Gobierno de Bolivia. Los miembros de la Misión serán responsables ante el Jefe de la Misión. Todos los miembros de la Misión servirán como consejeros del Gobierno de Bolivia dentro de sus especialidades, pero pueden emitir opiniones por su propia cuenta en asuntos de la aviación civil cuando estimen conveniente.

13.- En caso de que cualquiera de los miembros de la Misión ocasionara, en el desempeño de sus funciones, daños y perjuicios materiales o personales o muertes, el Gobierno de Bolivia asumirá la responsabilidad legal respectiva.

14. - Las compensaciones de los miembros de la Misión estarán exentas de todo impuesto en Bolivia ; empero, si al presente o mientras dure este convenio hubiera impuestos que afecten las mencionadas compensaciones, esos impuestos serán cubiertos por el Gobierno de Bolivia, a fin de dar cumplimiento a lo establecido en este párrafo.
15.- El personal de la Misión , durante este contrato y después de él, se compromete a no divulgar o revelar en ninguna forma a ningún Gobierno extranjero o persona , los asuntos confidenciales o secretos de los que tenga conocimiento por motivo de sus funciones.

16.- Las anteriores esti pulaciones pueden ser modificadas en todo o en parte, mediante cambio de notas entre el Gobierno de Bolivia y el de los Estados Unidos de América."

Rogando a Vuestra Excelencia llevar lo que antecede a conocimiento del Excelentísimo Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, tengo a honra
expresarle, de acuerdo a su pedido, que el citado Pliego de Condiciones entrará en vigencia a partir de la fecha de suscripción de la presente nota.

3867

3868 Ante, p. 3863.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Me valgo de esta oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Excelencia los sentimientos de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
TOMÁS M. ELIO.
Su Excelencia JOSEPH FLACK, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Presente.-

Translation

REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS
AND WORSHIP

No. TC and ONU. 935MR. AMBASSADOR :

LA PAZ, November 3, 1947.

With reference to the negotiations carried on between the Government of Bolivia and that of Your Excellency for the purpose of

agreeing on a technical mission from the United States Civil Aeronautics Administration to collaborate in the development of Bolivian civil aviation, I have the honor to refer to your Embassy's courteous

note No. 396 of August 26 last, with which there was enclosed a Statement of Conditions with which the personnel of this mission must comply in the performance of their duties.

With respect to this, I am pleased to inform Your Excellency that the aforementioned Statement of Conditions has been approved by

my Government, and accordingly I have the honor to transcribe below

the Spanish version of the pertinent text :

"Statement of Conditions

Technical Mission to Bolivia

"1. Subject to the availability of suitable technicians and funds for the purpose, the Government of the United States shall make available to the Government of Bolivia the services of technicians in the field of civil aviation as requested by the Government of Bolivia.
"2. The Government of Bolivia shall reimburse the Government of the United States at the rate of $2,000 (U. S. Cy.) per year for the Chief of Mission and $1,500 ( U. S. Cy. ) per year for each additional member, to cover the expenses incurred in connection with the assignment of these experts. Such reimbursement shall be made six months after each assignment. However, for accounting and procedural reasons, it will not be necessary for the Government of Bolivia to make any payment to the Government of the United States until such time as the Government of Bolivia receives a statement of its obligation in this connection .
"3. The Government of Bolivia shall permit the entry free of customs duties of materials, supplies, and effects for the professional and personal use of the technicians.

61 STAT. ]

BOLIVIA

CIVIL AVIATION MISSION-

Aug. 26, 1947 Nov. 3, 1947

"4. The Government of Bolivia shall provide the technicians with means of transportation within Bolivia.
"5. The Government of Bolivia shall provide the technicians with suitably equipped ample office space and adequate clerical assistance , and bear the cost thereof, as well as reimburse the Government of the United States up to a limit of $2,400 ( U. S. Cy. ) per year for the services of a bilingual stenographer.
"6. The Government of Bolivia shall permit the transportation of the body of any technician mentioned in this contract who may die in Bolivia, to a place of burial in the United States selected by his family or their legal representatives.
"7. Unless otherwise agreed to , the assignments of the technicians shall be for periods not exceeding one year each , including travel time.
"8. If, after the expiration of the foregoing periods of assignment, it appears that all the objectives have not been attained, the Government of the United States agrees to give the fullest consideration to any request of the Government of Bolivia for the extension of the assignments for additional periods not exceeding six months each.
"9. The Government of the United States shall pay the salary, allowances, travel expenses in both directions (between Bolivia and the United States) and any additional compensation of the technicians, subject to partial reimbursement by the Government of Bolivia at the rate indicated hereinabove.
"10. The Government of the United States proposes to detail, under these conditions, an expert in air traffic control and related air facilities and an expert in communications engineering. Before these technicians are assigned , their names, together with a description of their qualifications , will be submitted to the Government of Bolivia for its approval.

"11. The Government of the United States agrees to give the fullest consideration to any request of the Government of Bolivia for an increase in the numbers of members of the Mission or for the assignment of experts in the field of civil aviation other than those specified in paragraph 10.
"12. The Government of the United States shall designate a Chief of Mission who will represent the Mission before the Government of Bolivia. Members of the Mission will be responsible to the Chief of Mission. All members of the Mission will serve as advisers to the Government of Bolivia within their respective fields, but may volunteer opinions on civil aviation matters when they deem it advisable.
"13. The Government of Bolivia shall assume civil liability in the event that any member of the Mission , while acting within the scope of his duties, causes damage to or loss of property, or personal injury or death.

"14. Compensation of Mission members shall not be subject to any tax in Bolivia. Should there, however, at present or while this agreement
95347°-50- PT. IV -34

3869

3870

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
is in effect, be any taxes that might affect the aforementioned compensation, such taxes shall be paid by the Government of Bolivia in order to comply with the provisions of this paragraph.
"15. Mission personnel , during the time this contract is in operation and thereafter, undertake not to divulge or reveal in any form to any foreign government, or any person , confidential or secret matters of which they may become cognizant in the exercise of their duties.
"16. The above conditions may be modified in whole or in part by an exchange of notes between the Government of Bolivia and the Government of the United States of America."
Requesting Your Excellency to communicate the foregoing to the Government of the United States, I have the honor to inform you, in compliance with your request, that the above-quoted Statement of Conditions will enter into force on the day on which the present note is signed.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the expression of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
TOMÁS M. ELIO.
His Excellency JOSEPH FLACK , Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, City.

Apr. 1, 4, 15, 1944 61 STAT.] PERU-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Jan. 30, Apr. 30, 1945

3871

Arrangement between the United States of America and Peru respecting
a cooperative educational program in Peru. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Lima April 1 and 15, 1944 , entered into force April 15, 1944; memorandum of agreement signed at Lima April 4, 1944, effective April 4, 1944; supplementary agreement no. 1 signed at Lima January 30, 1945, entered into force January 30, 1945; and a supplement to the memorandum of agreement, signed April 30, 1945, entered into force April 30, 1945.

JaAnpruialry1,340,, 1A5p,r1i9l4340, , 1945
[T. I. A. S. 1740]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Peruvian Ministerfor Foreign Affairs

No. 1758

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Lima, April 1 , 1944.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the note, dated December 17, 1943 , [']

from Dr. Enrique Laroza, Minister of Education of Peru , to Mr.

Kenneth Holland , Vice President of the Inter-American Educational

Foundation, concerning the undertaking of cooperative educational

activities. The note expresses the desire of the Government of Peru for the cooperation of the Government of the United States in under-

taking certain projects in the field of education. As it appears desirable that the Government of Peru and the Gov-

ernment of the United States should cooperate in the undertaking, I

take pleasure in informing Your Excellency that my Government is

prepared to collaborate with the Government of Peru in activities

looking to the development of an educational program to be con-
Sum to be provided ducted over a period of approximately three years. The Inter- by U. S.

American Educational Foundation , Inc. , an agency of the Office of

the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs of the United States, is pre-

pared to provide a sum not to exceed $ 172,000 (One Hundred Seventy-

Two Thousand Dollars U. S. currency) to be made available for the

local projects to be approved mutually by representatives of the two

governments and for paying the salaries and other expenses of the edu-

cational specialists furnished by the Inter-American Foundation, Inc. , to work on the program in Peru. The personnel to be furnished by the

Personnel.

Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , is to be satisfactory to

the Republic of Peru and is to be under the direction of a person to be

designated as the Chief of Field Staff, Inter-American Educational

Foundation, Inc. , who will be the representative of the Foundation in connection with the cooperative program.
It is further understood that the Government of Peru will provide, beApdrdoivtiiodneadlbysuPmerut.o

in addition to its regular national budget for education, the total sum

1 [Not printed.]

3872 Post, p. 3877.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
of approximately $ 86,000 (Eighty-Six Thousand Dollars U. S. currency ) for the cooperative educational program, together with personnel, supplies and materials as may be required and available.
It is further understood that a special cooperative educational service will be set up in the Ministry of Education for the purpose of carrying out the cooperative activities to be undertaken.
It is also understood that detailed arrangements for the establishment of the special cooperative service and the development of the program will be made between representatives of the two governments. In this connection, I am enclosing a copy of a Memorandum of Agreement which sets forth the details regarding the cooperative educational program as proposed by the Inter-American Educational Foundation. If this agreement is satisfactory, it is suggested that it be signed by the proper official of the Republic of Peru and thereafter it will be signed by a representative of the Foundation.
I avail myself of this occasion to extend to Your Excellency the renewed assurance of my highest consideration .
JEFFERSON PATTERSON Enclosure:
Memorandum of Agreement His Excellency
Doctor ALFREDO SOLF Y MURO, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lima.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
The Government of the Republic of Perú and the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. (hereinafter referred to as the Foundation" ) , a division of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs and an agency of the Government of the United States of America, have agreed to undertake a cooperative educational program available to all interested public and private groups in accordance with the following terms and conditions :
1. The cooperative educational program may include :
a. A staff of educational specialists requested by the Ministry of Public Education for service in Perú in carrying out the cooperative educational program ;
b. Grants to permit Peruvian educators to travel to the United States of America for training, to deliver lectures and to realize an interchange of ideas and experience with United States educators :
c. Exploration and survey in Perú of local educational needs and of the resources which are indispensable for the carrying out of training projects ;
d. Development, adaptation and exchange of suitable teaching materials, particularly visual materials ;
e. Local projects needed to implement the program in Perú .

Apr. 1, 4, 15, 1944 61 STAT. ] PERU-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Jan. 30, Apr. 30, 1945
2. For the purpose of providing an instrumentality through which the cooperative educational program can be conducted by the representatives of the two parties to this agreement, the Government of Perú shall create a special service to be known as the Servicio de Cooperación Peruano-Norteamericano en Educación (hereinafter referred to as S.C.P.N.E. ) , which shall operate as an entity within and subordinate to the Ministry of Public Education. The S.C.P.N.E. shall have the power to execute the cooperative educational program agreed upon herein.
3. The Foundation will provide a group of educational specialists to collaborate in the consummation of the cooperative educational program. The group of specialists shall be under the direction of the
Representative in Peru of the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc., who shall be appointed by the same and who shall be acceptable to the Government of Perú. This official shall be the
representative of the Foundation in connection with the program to be undertaken in accordance with this agreement.
4. The Government of Peru shall appoint as Director of the S.C.P.N.E. the Representative in Peru of the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. The Director of the S.C.P.N.E. shall be responsible for the execution of, and shall have authority to carry out, the cooperative educational program of the S.C.P.N.E. The Director of the S.C.P.N.E. shall delegate certain of his functions to personnel of the S.C.P.N.E. including personnel of the Foundation assigned to the S.C.P.N.E.
5. The cooperative educational program in Peru shall consist of individual projects . Such projects shall consist of specific kinds of work and activities to be undertaken by the representatives of both Governments in the execution of this agreement . The projects and the allocation of the funds of the S.C.P.N.E. shall be agreed upon
by the Minister of Public Education for the Republic of Peru and by the Representative in Peru of the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. for the Foundation .
6. The Foundation shall pay the salaries and expenses of the members of the group as well as the other administrative expenses of the Foundation in a total amount which shall not exceed One Hundred and Thirty Thousand Three Hundred ($ 130,300.00 ) Dollars and shall, in addition, grant to the S.C.P.N.E. the total sum of Forty-one Thousand Seven Hundred ($41,700.00 ) Dollars , as follows :
No later than June 4, 1944, the sum of $13,900.00 No later than April 3, 1945, the sum of $ 13,900.00 No later than April 3, 1946, the sum of $ 13,900.00 7. The Government of Peru shall contribute to the S.C.P.N.E. the
sum of Eighty-six Thousand ($ 86,000.00 ) Dollars or the equivalent in Peruvian Soles calculated on the basis of a rate of exchange of 6.485 Soles per U. S. Dollars , namely, the sum of Five Hundred and

3873

3874

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Fifty-seven Thousand Seven Hundred and Ten (S/.557,710.00) Peruvian Soles, as follows :
No later than June 4, 1944, the sum of $28,666.68 or S/.185,903.34 No later than April 3, 1945, the sum of $28,666.66 or S/.185,903.33 No later than April 3, 1946, the sum of $28,666.66 or S/.185,903.33
It is understood that the salary which is received by the professor who is in charge of organizing and supervising the teaching of English in Peru may be deducted from the contribution which the Government of Peru shall make available in conformity with this agreement.
The funds of the S.C.P.N.E. shall be deposited in a special account in the name of the S.C.P.N.E. and shall be disbursed by the Director of the S.C.P.N.E. only upon projects having the mutual approval of the Minister of Public Education and the Representative in Perú of the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc.
The Government of Perú will also furnish such office space, office equipment and furnishings , and supplies and materials as may be necessary, and, within the facilities available to it, will construct such buildings as the execution of the cooperative educational program may require.
8. In view of the fact that many purchases of materials and supplies must necessarily be made in the United States of America and paid for in Dollars, the Minister of Public Education and the Representative in Perú of the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. may agree to withhold from the deposits to be made by the Foundation, as hereinabove provided , an amount established to be necessary to pay for the same. Any funds so withheld by the Foundation for such purposes and not expended on or obligated for materials or supplies for the S.C.P.N.E. shall be deposited to the account of the S.C.P.N.E.
9. Interest, if any, earned on the deposits of the S.C.P.N.E. shall be credited to the said Servicio. The parties hereto shall determine by mutual agreement the disposition of any unobligated funds remaining to the credit of the S.C.P.N.E. upon the termination of this agreement.
10. The Director of the S.C.P.N.E. shall have the power to select, appoint or discharge the employees of the S.C.P.N.E. and shall determine the salaries, transfers and conditions of employment within the S.C.P.N.E. with the approval of the Ministry of Public Education which will issue in each case the corresponding Supreme Resolution.
11. Contracts and agreements relating to the execution of projects previously agreed upon by the Minister of Public Education and the Representative in Peru of the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. shall be executed in the name of the S.C.P.N.E. by the Director of the same.
12. The S.C.P.N.E. shall be considered as an integral part of the public administration of Perú. As a consequence, its Director and its personnel shall enjoy the same privileges and rights which are held

Apr. 1, 4, 15, 1944 61 STAT. ] PERU-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-- Jan. 30, Apr. 30, 1945
by Direcciones and other public divisions of the Government of Perú and by the personnel thereof.
The Foundation shall enjoy the same rights , privileges and immunities which correspond to public agencies of Perú with respect to such of its operations as are related to property destined for the realization of the cooperative educational program.
Since the personnel of Foundation are obliged, as citizens of the United States, to pay income taxes in the United States, to pay income taxes in the United States upon their salaries, they shall not be required to pay Peruvian Income Taxes upon the same.
13. The expenditure , audit, and accounting of funds in the S.C.P.N.E. account, as well as the purchases and sales of personal property for the account of the S.C.P.N.E. , shall be regulated and controlled under such rules, regulations and procedures as shall be mutually agreed upon by the Minister of Public Education and the Representative in Perú of the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. The accounts of the S.C.P.N.E. shall be available for audit whenever it is considered necessary by the appropriate agency of the Government of Perú and by the Foundation or its delegate .
14. At the termination of this agreement , all property of the S.C.P.N.E. shall remain the property of the Government of Perú.
15. All rights, powers, privileges or duties conferred by this agreement upon either the Minister of Public Education or the Representative in Perú of the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. may be delegated by the recipient thereof to representatives, provided that such representatives be satisfactory to the other .
16. This memorandum of agreement may be amended from time to time if deemed advisable by the parties hereto, and the amendments are to be in writing and signed by the representatives of the Government of Perú and the Foundation.
17. The Government of Perú shall take the necessary legal steps to effectuate the terms of this agreement.
This agreement shall become effective as of the date hereof and shall remain in force for three calendar years from said date, unless amended by mutual agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, duly authorized , sign the present contract, in duplicate, in English and in Spanish, at Lima, Perú, this fourth day of April 1944.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
Minister of Public Education
FOR THE INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC.
Vice-President, Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc.

3875

3876 Ante, p. 3871.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

No: (D)-6-3/75 SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

LIMA, 15 de abril de 1944.

Me es honroso acusar recibo de la estimable nota N° 1758 , de 1º

del presente mes, por la que esa Embajada ha tenido a bien poner en conocimiento del Despacho a mi cargo, el texto del proyecto de Convenio -posteriormente formalizado, con fecha 4 del mismo mes,

por las autoridades peruanas y norteamericanas competentes- para desarrollar un programa cooperativo de educación , tal como ha sido propuesto por la Fundación Interamericana de Educación.

Aprovecho de esta oportunidad para reiterarle , Señor Embajador, las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración .
ALFREDO SOLF Y MURO Al Excelentísimo señor

JOHN CAMPBELL WHITE, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Ciudad.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND WORSHIP

No. (D) -6-3/75 MR. AMBASSADOR :

LIMA, April 15, 1944.

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of the courteous note No. 1758, of the first instant, by which your Embassy has seen fit to communicate to this Office the text of the Memorandum of Agreement-subsequently concluded under date of the 4th of the same month by the competent Peruvian and American authorities- to develop a cooperative educational program such as has been proposed by the Inter-American Educational Foundation .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you, Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
ALFREDO SOLF Y MURO His Excellency
JOHN CAMPBELL WHITE ,

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, City.

61 STAT. ] PERU-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-JaAnpr. 1, 4, 15, 1944 . 30, Apr. 30, 1945
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

3877

The Government of the Republic of Perú and the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as the "Founda-

tion" ) , a division of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American

Affairs and an agency of the Government of the United States of

America, have agreed to undertake a cooperative educational program

available to all interested public and private groups in accordance

with the following terms and conditions :

Terms and conditions.

1. The cooperative educational program may include :

a. A staff of educational specialists requested by the Ministry of Public Education for service in Perú in carrying out the cooperative educational program ;
b. Grants to permit Peruvian educators to travel to the United States of America for training, to deliver lectures and to real-

ize an interchange of ideas and experience with United States educators ;

c. Exploration and survey in Perú of local educational needs and

of the resources which are indispensable for the carrying out of training projects ;

d. Development, adaptation and exchange of suitable teaching materials, particularly visual materials ;

e. Local projects needed to implement the program in Perú. 2. For the purpose of providing an instrumentality through which

8. C. P. N. E.

the cooperative educational program can be conducted by the repre-

sentatives of the two parties to this agreement, the Government

of Perú shall create a special service to be known as the Servicio de

Cooperación Peruano Norteamericano en Educación (hereinafter re-

ferred to as S. C. P. N. E.) , which shall operate as an entity within and

subordinate to the Ministry of Public Education . The S. C. P. N. E.

shall have the power to execute the cooperative educational program agreed upon herein .
Educational special3. The Foundation will provide a group of educational specialists ists. to collaborate in the consummation of the cooperative educational program. The group of specialists shall be under the direction of the

Representative in Peru of the Inter-American Educational Foundation,

Inc. , who shall be appointed by the same and who shall be acceptable to the Government of Perú. This official shall be the representative

of the Foundation in connection with the program to be undertaken in accordance with this agreement.
4. The Government of Perú shall appoint as Director of the S.C.P.N.E. the Representative in Perú of the Inter-American Educa-

Director of S. C. P. N. E.

tional Foundation , Inc. The Director of the S.C.P.N.E. shall be

responsible for the execution of, and shall have authority to carry out,

the cooperative educational program of the S.C.P.N.E. The Director

of the S.C.P.N.E. shall delegate certain of his functions to personnel

of the S.C.P.N.E. including personnel of the Foundation assigned to the S.C.P.N.E.
5. The cooperative educational program in Perú shall consist of

Projects.

individual projects. Such projects shall consist of specific kinds of

3878

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

work and activities to be undertaken by the representatives of both Governments in the execution of this agreement. The projects and

the allocation of the funds of the S.C.P.N.E. shall be agreed upon by

the Minister of Public Education for the Republic of Perú and by the

Payments by Foundation.

Representative in Perú of the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. for the Foundation .
6. The Foundation shall pay the salaries and expenses of the members of the group as well as the other administrative expenses of the Foundation in a total amount which shall not exceed One Hundred

and Thirty Thousand Three Hundred ($ 130,300.00) Dollars and shall, in addition, grant to the S.C.P.N.E. the total sum of Forty-one Thousand Seven Hundred ($41,700.00 ) Dollars , as follows :

No later than June 4, 1944, the sum of $ 13,900.00

No later than April 3, 1945, the sum of $ 13,900.00

Peruvian contribution.

No later than April 3, 1946, the sum of $ 13,900.00 7. The Government of Peru shall contribute to the S.C.P.N.E.

the sum of Eighty-six Thousand ($86,000.00) Dollars or the equivalent

in Peruvian Soles calculated on the basis of a rate of exchange of

6.485 Soles per U. S. Dollar, namely, the sum of Five Hundred and

Fifty-seven Thousand Seven Hundred and Ten (S/.557,710.00) Peruvian Soles , as follows :

No later than June 4, 1944, the sum of $28,666.68 or S/.185,903.34 No later than April 3, 1945, the sum of $28,666.66 or S/.185,903.33 No later than April 3, 1946, the sum of $28,666.66 or S/.185,903.33

It is understood that the salary which is received by the professor

who is in charge of organizing and supervising the teaching of English

in Perú may be deducted from the contribution which the Government

of Perú shall make available in conformity with this agreement.

Funds in special account.

The funds of the S.C.P.N.E. shall be deposited in a special account

in the name of the S.C.P.N.E. and shall be disbursed by the Director

of the S.C.P.N.E. only upon projects having the mutual approval of

Office space, etc.

the Minister of Public Education and the Representative in Perú of the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc.
The Government of Perú will also furnish such office space, office

equipment and furnishings, and supplies and materials as may be necessary and , within the facilities available to it, will construct such

buildings as the execution of the cooperative educational program

may require.

Withholding of amounts for purchases

8. In view of the fact that many purchases of materials and supplies

in U. S.

must necessarily be made in the United States of America and paid

for in Dollars, the Minister of Public Education and the Representative in Perú of the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. may

agree to withhold from the deposits to be made by the Foundation ,

as hereinabove provided, an amount established to be necessary to

pay for the same. Any funds so withheld by the Foundation for such

purposes and not expended on or obligated for materials or supplies

Interest ; unobligated funds.

for the S.C.P.N.E. shall be deposited to the account of the S.C.P.N.E. 9. Interest , if any, earned on the deposits of the S.C.P.N.E. shall
be credited to the said Servicio. The parties hereto shall determine

Apr. 1, 4, 15, 1944 61 STAT.] PERU-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-- Jan. 30, Apr. 30, 1945

3879

by mutual agreement the disposition of any unobligated funds remaining to the credit of the S.C.P.N.E. upon the termination of this agreement.
10. The Director of the S.C.P.N.E. shall have the power to select, appoint or discharge the employees of the S.C.P.N.E. and shall de-

Powers of Director.

termine the salaries , transfers and conditions of employment within the S.C.P.N.E. with the approval of the Ministry of Public Education which will issue in each case the corresponding Supreme Resolution.

11. Contracts and agreements relating to the execution of projects previously agreed upon by the Minister of Public Education and the

Representative in Perú of the Inter-American Educational Founda-

tion , Inc. shall be executed in the name of the S.C.P.N.E. by the

Director of the same.

12.

The S.C.P.N.E. shall be considered as an integral part of the

Privileges rights.

and

public administration of Perú. As a consequence , its Director and

its personnel shall enjoy the same privileges and rights which are held

by Direcciones and other public divisions of the Government of Perú

and by the personnel thereof.

The Foundation shall enjoy the same rights , privileges and immunities which correspond to public agencies of Perú with respect to such of its operations as are related to property destined for the realization of the cooperative educational program .

Since the personnel of Foundation are obliged, as citizens of the

United States, to pay income taxes in the United States upon their

salaries , they shall not be required to pay Peruvian Income Taxes

upon the same.

13. The expenditure, audit, and accounting of funds in the S.C.P.N.E.

Expenditure, audit, and accounting of

account, as well as the purchases and sales of personal property funds.

for the account of the S.C.P.N.E. , shall be regulated and controlled

under such rules, regulations and procedures as shall be mutually

agreed upon by the Minister of Public Education and the Represent-

ative in Perú of the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc.

The accounts of the S.C.P.N.E. shall be available for audit whenever

it is considered necessary by the appropriate agency of the Govern-

ment of Perú and by the Foundation or its delegate . 14. At the termination of this agreement, all property of the

Property.

S.C.P.N.E. shall remain the property of the Government of Perú.

15.

All rights, powers, privileges or duties conferred by this agree-

Delegation ofrights, powers, etc.

ment upon either the Minister of Public Education or the Representative in Perú of the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc.

may be delegated by the recipient thereof to representatives , provided that such representatives be satisfactory to the other.

16. This memorandum of agreement may be amended from time to time if deemed advisable by the parties hereto , and the amendments are to be in writing and signed by the representatives of the Government of Perú and the Foundation.
17. The Government of Perú shall take the necessary legal steps to effectuate the terms of this agreement.

3880

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Effective date; duration.

This agreement shall become effective as of the date hereof and shall remain in force for three calendar years from said date, unless amended by mutual agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned , duly authorized , sign the present contract , in duplicate, in English and in Spanish, at Lima, Perú, this fourth day of April 1944 .

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU E LAROZA

Minister of Public Education

FOR THE INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC. KENNETH HOLLAND
Vice-President, Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc.

MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
El Gobierno de la República del Perú y la Fundación Educacional Interamericana , Inc. (que en adelante se denominará la "Fundación " ), una división de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Interamericanos y una agencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, han convenido en llevar a cabo un programa educacional cooperativo aprovechable para todos los grupos públicos o privados, interesados , de acuerdo con los siguientes términos y condiciones :
1. El programa cooperativo educacional puede incluir:
a. Un personal de profesionales especializados , solicitados por el Ministerio de Educación Pública para el servicio en el Perú y para llevar a cabo el programa cooperativo educacional ;
b. Subvenciones para permitir que educadores peruanos viajen a los Estados Unidos de América con el fin de obtener entrenamiento , dar conferencias y suscitar un intercambio de ideas y experiencias con los educadores estadounidenses ;
c. Amplio estudio en el Perú de las necesidades educacionales locales y de los recursos indispensables para llevar a cabo los proyectos de entrenamiento ;
d. Desarrollo , adaptación e intercambio de materiales adecuados de educación, particularmente de los de valor visual ;
e. Los proyectos locales que fuesen necesarios para incrementar el programa en el Perú.
2. Con el propósito de proveer un instrumento por el cual el programa cooperativo educacional pueda ser llevado a cabo por los representantes de las dos partes de este acuerdo, el Gobierno del Perú creará un servicio especial que será conocido con el nombre de Servicio de Cooperación Peruano-Norteamericano en Educación (que en adelante se designará como S.C.P.N.E. ) , el cual operará como una entidad dentro del Ministerio de Educación Pública y subordinada a dicha autoridad. El S.C.P.N.E. tendrá poder para

61 STAT. ] PERU-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Apr. 1, 4, 15, 1944 Jan. 30, Apr. 30, 1945
ejecutar el programa educacional cooperativo acordado en este convenio .
3. La Fundación proveerá un grupo de empleados especializados en educación para colaborar en la ejecución del programa cooperativo educacional . El grupo de empleados estará bajo la dirección del Representante en el Perú de la Fundación Educacional Interamericana, Inc., que será designado por ésta, con aprobación del Gobierno del Perú. Este funcionario será el representante de la Fundación , con respecto al programa que se llevará a cabo de acuerdo con este convenio .
4. El Gobierno del Perú nombrará como Director del S.C.P.N.E. al Representante en el Perú de la Fundación Educacional Interamericana Inc. , El Director del S.C.P.N.E. será responsable de la ejecución del programa cooperativo educacional del mismo y tendrá autoridad para llevarlo a cabo . El Director del S.C.P.N.E. podrá delegar algunas de sus funciones en el personal del S.C.P.N.E. incluyendo el de la Fundación asignado al S.C.P.N.E.
5. El programa cooperativo educacional en el Perú consistirá de proyectos específicos . Tales proyectos estarán constituídos por trabajos y actividades , concretos y taxativos , susceptibles de llevarse a cabo por los representantes de ambos Gobiernos en la ejecución de este acuerdo,. Los proyectos y la asignación de los fondos del S.C.P.N.E. serán aprobados por el Ministro de Educación Pública por parte del Gobierno del Perú y por el Representante del Perú de la Fundación Educacional Interamericana, Inc. , por parte de la Fundación .
6. La Fundación pagará los sueldos y gastos del personal del grupo y así como otros egresos administrativos de la Fundación en una suma total que no exceda de Ciento Treinta Mil Trescientos Dólares ($ 130,300.00 ) . Además, aportará al S.C.P.N.E. la suma total de Cuarentiun mil setecientos dólares ($41.700.00) , como sigue :
$13,900.00 U/S a más tardar el 4 de junio de 1944 ; $13,900.00 U/S a más tardar el 3 de abril de 1945 ; y $13,900.00 U/S a más tardar el 3 de abril de 1946.
7. El Gobierno del Perú contribuirá al S.C.P.N.E. con la suma de Ochentiseis mil dólares ($ 86,000.00) o su equivalencia en soles peruanos calculados sobre las bases de tipo de cambio de 6.485 soles por dólar americano , es decir, la suma de Quinientos cincuenta y siete mil setecientos diez soles peruanos (S/.557.710.00 como sigue :
$28,666.68 o S/.185.903.34 a más tardar el 4 de junio de 1944 $28,666.66 o S/.185.903.33 a más tardar el 3 de abril de 1945 ; y $28,666.66 o S/.185.903.33 a más tardar el 3 de abril de 1946.
Es entendido que el sueldo que recibe el profesor encargado de organizar y supervigilar la enseñanza del idioma inglés en el Perú, podrá ser deducido de la contribución que debe aportar el Gobierno Peruano conforme a este convenio.
Los fondos del S.C.P.N.E. serán depositados en una cuenta especial a nombre del mismo . Sólo podrá el Director efectuar desembolsos a base de proyectos que hayan sido aprobados por el Ministro de Educación Pública y por el Representante del Perú de la Fundación Educacional Interamericana, Inc.

3881

3882

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
El Gobierno del Perú proporcionará además las oficinas , los equipos de las mismas, los útiles y materiales a medida que sean necesarios y dentro de sus posibilidades, construirá los edificios que requiera la ejecución del programa cooperativo educacional .
8. Para atender a la compra de materiales y útiles efectuada necesariamente en los Estados Unidos de América y pagada en dólares, el Ministro de Educación Pública y el Representante en el Perú de la Fundación Educacional Interamericana, Inc. podrán convenir en retener de los aportes con que contribuye la Fundación la suma que para ella sea necesaria . Cualquier cantidad retenida con este objeto por la Fundación y no utilizada ni comprometida para materiales o útiles será depositada en la cuenta bancaria del S.C.P.N.E.
9. Cualquier suma que por concepto de intereses, fuera devengada por los depósitos del S.C.P.N.E. quedará en provecho del Servicio mismo . Las partes contratantes decidirán de común acuerdo la aplicación que deba darse, a cualquier cantidad no comprometida a la terminación de este acuerdo .
10. El Director del S.C.P.N.E. tendrá autoridad para seleccionar, designar o despedir empleados del S.C.P.N.E. , y fijará los haberes, transferencias y condiciones de empleo dentro del S.C.P.N.E. con la aprobación del Ministerio de Educación Pública el que expedirá en cada caso la respectiva Resolución Suprema .
11. Los contratos y acuerdos relacionados con la ejecución de los proyectos convenidos previamente por el Ministro de Educación Pública y el Representante en el Perú de la Fundación Educacional Interamericana Inc. serán ejecutados en nombre del S.C.P.N.E. por el Director del mismo.
12. El S.C.P.N.E. se considera parte integrante de la administración pública del Perú . En consecuencia, su Director y personal de empleados gozarán de los mismos privilegios y derechos que tienen las Direcciones y demás reparticiones públicas del Gobierno del Perú y sus respectivo personal.
La Fundación gozará de los mismos derechos , privilegios e inmunidades, que corresponden a las entidades públicas del Perú, en lo que respecta a las operaciones que se relacionan con los bienes destinados a la ejecución del programa cooperativo educacional.
Debido a que el personal de la Fundación estará obligado , como ciudadanos norteamericanos, a pagar impuestos sobre sus haberes en los Estados Unidos, quedarán exonerados de los impuestos peruanos sobre los mismos.
13. Los gastos , la intervención de las cuentas, la contabilidad y el control de los fondos del S.C.P.N.E, así como las compras y ventas de materiales para el S.C.P.N.E , se efectuarán conforme a las normas y procedimientos convenidos entre el Ministro de Educación Pública y el Representante en el Perú de la Fundación Educacional Interamericana Inc. Las cuentas del S.C.P.N.E. para el efecto de su revisión y comprobación , cuando se considere necesario, estarán a disposición de la entidad respectiva del Gobierno del Perú y de la Fundación o de su delegado .

Apr. 1, 4, 15, 1944 61 STAT. ] PERU-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Jan. 30, Apr. 30, 1945
14. Al concluirse este convenio , cualquier propiedad del S.C.P.N.E. quedará a beneficio del Gobierno del Perú.
15. Todos los derechos, poderes, privilegios , o deberes conferidos por este acuerdo al Ministro de Educación Pública o al Representante en el Perú de la Fundación Educacional Interamericana Inc. , pueden ser delegados por cualquiera de ellos , siempre que las personas delegadas sean aceptadas por la otra parte.
16. Este convenio puede ser reformado en cualquier tiempo por acuerdo de ambas partes, suscrito por los representantes del Gobierno del Perú y de la Fundación .
17. El Gobierno del Perú dictará las disposiciones necesarias para llevar a cabo los puntos de este acuerdo .
Este convenio regirá desde la fecha y durará tres años, salvo que sea reformado por mutuo acuerdo .
Suscriben, debidamente autorizados, el presente convenio , en doble ejemplar en inglés y en español, en la ciudad de Lima , Perú, el cuatro de Abril de 1944 .
Por el Gobierno de la República del Perú E LAROZA
Ministro de Educación Pública
Por la Fundación Educacional Interamericana Inc. KENNETH HOLLAND
Vice-Presidente de la Fundación Educacional Interamericana Inc.,

3883

3884

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. Ministerio de Educación Pública

ACUERDO COMPLEMENTARIO Nº. 1.- REFERENTE AL SERVICIO DE COOPERACION PERUANO NORTEAMERICANO EN EDUCACION

Los suscritos, el Ministro de Educación del Perú y el Director del Servicio de Cooperación Peruano Norteamericano en Educación, para los efectos del funcionamiento de dicho Servicio , aprueban este acuerdo complementario , que consta de los siguientes puntos :

1º. - Depositar los fondos del Servicio, provenientes de las Contribuciones peruana y norteamericana en el National City Bank de New York, Sucursal en Lima, en una cuenta especial denominada " Servicio de Cooperación Peruano-Norteamericano en Educación " . Con cargo a esta cuenta, girará en cheques bancarios el Director del Servicio, a fin de cubrir los gastos previamente aprobados por el Ministro de Educación Pública. 2º.- Para evitar las pérdidas resultantes del cambio y para sufragar los gastos de los becarios peruanos en los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica, por el período 1944-1945 , dejar en poder de la Inter-American Educational Foundation Inc., las once doceavas partes de la contribución de ésta por el período 1944-1945 , o sea dólares 25,483.33, debiendo depositarse el doceavo restante, ascendente a dólares 2,316.67 , conjuntamente con la que corresponde al Perú, en la cuenta del Servicio en Lima. 3º.- Autorizar al Director del mencionado Servicio para que disponga hasta de trescientos soles mensuales en efectivo para atender a los gastos más urgentes , de la oficina, como franqueo de correspondencia, útiles de escritorio , etc.
4º.- Contratar una mecanógrafa-taquígrafa bilingue con el sueldo mensual inicial de doscientos cincuenta soles .

5º.- Contratar los servicios de un empleado para llevar los Libros de Contabilidad del Servicio, con un sueldo inicial de trescientos soles mensuales.- Contratar, asimismo, los servicios de un portapliegos por treinta soles mensuales.

6º. - Gestionar la exoneración de los impuestos sobre la renta y del carnet de extranjería, al Dr. J. Graham Sullivan, al Dr. Reginald Reindorp y al personal norteamericano que integra el Servicio. 7º.- Otorgar al personal norteamericano del referido Servicio, los descuentos que en los trasportes se concede al personal nacional que viaja oficialmente.
LIMA, 30 de enero de 1945. E LAROZA

REGINALD C. REINDORP Director del S.C.P.N.E.

Ministro de Educación Pública

Apr. 1, 4, 15, 1944 61 STAT. ] PERU-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Jan. 30, Apr. 30, 1945

Ministry of Public Education

Translation

3885

SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT NO. 1. RELATING TO THE PERUVIANAMERICAN COOPERATIVE EDUCATION SERVICE

The undersigned, the Minister of Education of Peru and the Director of the Peruvian-American Cooperative Education Program Service, for the purpose of the functioning of the said Service, approve this supplementary agreement, which consists of the following points:
1.- To deposit the funds of the Service, having as their source Peruvian and United States contributions , in the National City Bank of New York, Lima Branch, in a special account called " Peruvian-American Cooperative Education Service " . The Program Director of the Service shall draw checks against this account to cover the expenses previously approved by the Minister of Public Education. 2. - In order to avoid the losses resulting from exchange operations and to defray the expenses of Peruvian scholarship holders in the United States of America, for the 1944-1945 period, to leave in the custody of the Inter-American Educational Foundation Inc. eleven
twelfths of the contribution of the latter for the 1944-1945 period , or $25,483.33 , the remaining twelfth, amounting to $2,316.67 , having to be deposited, together with that belonging to Peru, in the account of the Service in Lima. 3. To authorize the Director of the aforementioned Service to dis-
pose of up to three hundred sols a month in cash to provide for the most urgent expenses of the office, such as postage for mail, office
equipment , etc. -
4. To engage a bilingual stenographer-typist at the beginning monthly salary of two hundred and fifty sols. 5. - To engage the services of an employee to keep the books of the Service, with a beginning salary of three hundred sols a month. - To engage, also, the services of a messenger at thirty sols a month. 6. To obtain exemption from income tax and from the requirement of the foreign identification booklet for Dr. J. Graham Sullivan, Dr.
Reginald Reindorp and the American personnel which belongs to the Service.
7. To grant to the American personnel of the Service referred to, the travel discounts which are granted to Peruvian personnel which is traveling officially.
LIMA, January 30, 1945. E LAROZA

Post, p. 3887.

REGINALD C. REINDORP Director of the S.C.P.N.E.

Minister of Public Education

95347-50-PT. IV- 35

3886

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT. MINISTERIO DE EDUCACION PUBLICA

SUPPLEMENT TO BASIC AGREEMENT

Ante, p. 3877. Ante, p. 3878.

This agreement is made this 30 day of April 4,5 1945 between the Government of Perú, represented by Ingº Enrique Laroza, Minister of Public Education (hereinafter called the Ministry) and the InterAmerican Educational Foundation, Inc. , a corporation of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs (now known as the Office of Inter-American Affairs) and an Agency of the Government of the United States of America (hereinafter called the Foundation) , represented by J. Graham Sullivan, its Special Representative.
Clause I
The Basic Contract of April 4 , 1944 , made between the Government of Perú, represented by the Minister, and the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , represented by its Vice-President, provides in paragraphs 6 and 7 that the Foundation would grant to the Servicio de Cooperación Peruano Norte-Americano en Educación (hereinafter called the S.C.P.N.E.) the total sum of $41,700.00, U.S. Dollars, as follows:
No later than June 4, 1944, the sum of $ 13,900.00 No later than April 3, 1945 , the sum of $ 13,900.00 No later than April 3, 1946, the sum of $ 13,900.00 ;

and that the Government of Perú would contribute to the S.C.P.N.E. the sum of $86,000.00 , U.S. Dollars, or the equivalent in Peruvian Soles , calculated on the basis of a rate of exchange of 6.485 Soles per U.S. Dollar, namely, the sum of S/.557,710.00 , Peruvian Soles , as follows:
No later than June 4, 1944, the sum of $28,666.68 or S/.185,903.34 No later than April 3, 1945 , the sum of $28,666.66 or S/ .185,903.33 No later than April 3, 1946, the sum of $28,666.66 or S/ .185,903.33
Clause II

Because of the fact that circumstances rendered it impossible for the Foundation to secure the services of qualified individuals to make up its group of educational specialists, it became necessary to postpone activities under the Basic Contract and to delay the deposit of the contributions to the S.C.P.N.E. mentioned above.

Clause III

Acting Special Rep. resentative.

In December of 1944 Dr. Reginald C. Reindorp was appointed by the Foundation as its Acting Special Representative in Perú and pursuant to conversations with the Minister was also appointed as Acting Director of the S.C.P.N.E. by Supreme Resolution No. 3987 of the Government of Perú on December 6, 1945.

Clause IV

Modification ofpayments .

As a result of conversations between the Minister and the Acting Representative of the Foundation, it was agreed that the payments of both the Peruvian Government and the Foundation to the

Apr. 1, 4, 15, 1944 61 STAT. ] PERU- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Jan. 30, Apr. 30, 1945

3887

S.C.P.N.E. , as called for in the Basic Contract, should be modified and accellerated in the following manner:
A. The Peruvian Government agrees to contribute to the S.C.P.N.E. , during the calendar year beginning January 1 , 1945 and ending December 31 , 1945 , the equivalent in Soles of $57,333.34, U.S. Dollars , calculated at the rate of 6.485 Soles per U.S. Dollar, being the sum of Soles 371,806.67 . This was the total amount which the Peruvian Government had agreed on the Basic Contract to contribute to the S.C.P.N.E. on June 4 , 1944 and April 3 , 1945. It was further agreed that this sum should be paid in monthly installments of Soles 30, 983.88 during each month of the said calendar year.
B. At the same time the Foundation agreed to modify and accellerate its payments under the Basic Contract by granting to the S.C.P.N.E. during the calendar year beginning January 1 , 1945 and ending December 31 , 1945, the sum of $27,800.00 , U.S. Dollars. This was the total of the amounts which theFoundation had agreed to grant to the S.C.P.N.E. in accordance with the Basic Contract on June 4 , 1944 and April 3 , 1945 .
C. However, it was stipulated that of the $27,800.00 , U.S. Dollars , which the Foundation agreed to make available under this new arrangement, the Foundation should withhold in Washington the sum of $25,483.33 , U.S. Dollars, for the purpose of paying expenses of the Servicio which might be contracted in Dollars ; and that the Foundation should deposit to the account of the S.C.P.N.E. in Perú the sum of $2,316.67 , U.S. Dollars . Official depositary
D. It was further agreed that the official depositary of the funds in Lima. of the S.C.P.N.E. in Lima, Perú should be in the Lima Branch of The National City Bank of New York.
Clause V

The Agreement referred to in Clause IV hereof was embodied in part in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Supplementary Agreement No. 1 , dated January 30 , 1945 , entered into in Lima, Perú between Ing Enrique Laroza, as Minister of Public Education, and Dr. Reginald C. Reindorp as Director of the S.C.P.N.E.

Ante, p. 3885.

Clause VI

For the purpose of clarifying Supplementary Agreement No. 1 and setting out in writing the full scope of the new arrangement referred to in Clause IV hereof, the undersigned herewith agree that:
A. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Supplementary Agreement No. 1 shall be replaced and superseded by this Agreement.
B. The Government of Perú shall deposit to the account of the S.C.P.N.E. during the calendar year 1945 , in the Lima Branch of The National City Bank of New York the equivalent in Soles of $57,333.34 , U.S. Dollars, calculated at the rate of exchange of 6.485 Soles per U.S. Dollar, namely, the sum of Soles 371,806.67, as follows:

Ante, p. 3885. Peruvian deposits..

3888

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Foundation grant.
Ante, p. 3878. 8. O. P. N. E. account in Lima.

During the month of January, 1945 the sum of S/.30,983.88 During the month of February, 1945 the sum of S/.30,983.88 During the month of March, 1945 the sum of S/.30,983.88 During the month of April, 1945 the sum of S/.30,983.88 During the month of May, 1945 the sum of S/.30,983.88 During the month of June, 1945 the sum of S/.30,983.88 During the month of July, 1945 the sum of S/.30,983.88 During the month of August, 1945 the sum of S/.30,983.88 During the month of September, 1945 the sum of S/.30,983.88 During the month of October, 1945 the sum of S/ .30,983.88 During the month of November, 1945 the sum of S/ .30,983.88 During the month of December, 1945 the sum of S/.30,983.88
C. The Foundation shall grant to the S.C.P.N.E. , during the calendar year 1945 , the sum of $ 27,800.00 , U.S. Dollars. Of that amount the Foundation will deposit to the account of the S.C.P.N.E. in the Lima Branch of The National City Bank of New York, during the calendar year 1945 , the sum of $2,316.67, U.S. Dollars, and shall withhold in Washington the sum of $25,483.33 , U.S. Dollars, The sum withheld shall be used to finance the cost of visits of Peruvian educators to the United States and the purchase of materials, supplies and equipment which necessarily must be made in the United States, all in accordance with, and for the purposes set out in, paragraph 8 of the Basic Contract of April 4, 1944. The actual use to which such withheld funds shall be put shall be the subject of mutual written agreements between the Minister and the Special Representative of the Foundation.
D. The Foundation herewith acknowledges that the Government of Perú has deposited the sum of Soles 123,935.52 in the account of the S.C.P.N.E. in the Lima Branch of The National City Bank of New York, in equal installments of Soles 30,983.88 , which installments were deposited on January 30 , 1945, February 28, 1945, April 2, 1945 and April 12 , 1945. The Government of Perú herewith acknowledges that the Foundation has deposited in the account of the S.C.P.N.E. in the Lima Branch of The National City Bank of New York the sum of $2,316.67, U.S. Dollars , on January 26 , 1945.
E. The funds of the S.C.P.N.E. shall be deposited in its name in the Lima Branch of The National City Bank of New York. The Director of the S.C.P.N.E. shall draw checks against this account and shall make disbursement of these funds to cover expenditures of the S.C.P.N.E. which have been previously approved by the Minister.

Clause VII

The parties hereto agree that all the provisions of the Basic Contract and such other contracts as they have already made shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect, except insofar as they have been specifically amended herein.

Apr. 1 , 4, 15, 1944 61 STAT. ] PERU--COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Jan. 30, Apr. 30, 1945

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives on the day and year first above written.

For the GOVERNMENT OF PERU

By

E LAROZA

Minister of Public Education

For the INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC.

By

J GRAHAM SULLIVAN

Special Representative

MINISTERIO DE EDUCACION PUBLICA

CONTRATO BASICO SUPLEMENTARIO

En este día_de ___ de 1945, se firma el siguiente convenio, entre el Gobierno del Perú, representado por el Ingº Enrique Laroza, Ministro de Educación Pública (que en adelante se llamará el Ministerio) y la Fundación Inter-Americana de Educación , Inc. , Corporación de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Inter-Americanos (conocida ahora bajo el nombre de Oficina de Asuntos Inter-Americanos) , y Dependencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América (que en adelante se llamará la Fundación) representada por su Representante Especial , el Sr. J. Graham Sullivan.

Cláusula I

El Contrato Básico, consumado con fecha 4 de abril de 1944 entre el Gobierno del Perú, representado por el Ministro, y la Fundación, representada por su Vice- Presidente, estipula en sus párrafos 6 y 7 que la Fundación contribuiría al funcionamiento del Servicio de Cooperación Peruano Norteamericano en Educación (que en adelante se llamará el S.C.P.N.E. ) , con la suma total de $41,700.00 , que sería abonada en la forma siguiente:

La

suma

de

13,900

Dólares , 66

(a6 má" s

tar"6dar

e66l

4

de

junio

de

1944;

La suma de 13,900

3 de abril de 1945 ;

66 66 ""

"6

La suma de 13,900

3 de abril de 1946.

y que el Gobierno del Perú contribuiría al funcionamiento del S.C.P.N.E. con la suma de $86,000.00 , o su equivalente en Soles Peruanos, calculado sobre la base del tipo vigente de cambio de 6.485 Soles Oro por cada Dólar Americano , o sea, un total de S/.557,710.00 , que serían abonados en la forma siguiente :

La

suma de $28,666.68

( S/ .185,903.34)

a66

má66s

tardar 46

e66l

4 de junio

de

1944 ;

La suma de $28,666.66 (S/.185,903.33)

3 de abril de 1945 ;

"6 66 66

La suma de $28,666.66 (S/.185,903.33)

3 de abril de 1946.

Cláusula II

Debido al hecho de que, por diversas circunstancias, no le fué posible a la Fundación obtener los servicios del personal capacitado para

3889

3890

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
constituir su grupo de especialistas en educación , se hizo necesario postergar la iniciación de las actividades delineadas en el Contrato Básico, y retardar el depósito de las contribuciones al S.C.P.N.E. que se mencionan en el párrafo anterior.
Cláusula III
En Diciembre de 1944 , la Fundación designó al Dr. Reginald C. Reindorp como su Representante Especial Interino en el Perú, y en conformidad con las conversaciones sostenidas con el Ministro, se le nombró Director Interino del S.C.P.N.E. por Resolución Suprema del Gobierno Peruano , Nº 3987 , de fecha Diciembre 6 de 1944 .
Cláusula IV
Como resultado de las conversaciones entre el Ministro y el Representante Interino de la Fundación, se convino en que el pago de las contribuciones al funcionamiento del S.C.P.N.E. , tanto del Gobierno Peruano como de la Fundación, según se estipula en el Contrato Básico, fuera modificado y acelerado en la siguiente forma:
A. El Gobierno Peruano convino en entregar al S.C.P.N.E. durante el año calendario que empieza el 1º de enero de 1945 y termina el 31 de diciembre de 1945 , el equivalente en Soles de US$ 57,333.34, al vigente tipo de cambio de 6.485 Soles Oro por cada Dólar Americano, o sea, un total de S/.371,806.67 . Esta suma representa el monto total de las contribuciones al S.C.P.N.E. que, bajo los términos del Contrato Básico , le correspondía abonar al Gobierno Peruano en las fechas 4 de junio de 1944 y 3 de abril de 1945. Se acordó, además, que esta suma sería pagada en mensualidades de Soles 30,983.88 , durante cada uno de los meses de dicho año calendario .
B. La Fundación, a su vez, convino en modificar y acelerar sus pagos, según se detallan en el Contrato Básico , entregando al S.C.P.N.E. , durante el año calendario que empieza el 1 ° de enero de 1945 y termina el 31 de Diciembre de 1945 , la suma de US$27,800.00 . Esta suma representa el monto total de las contribuciones al S.C.P.N.E. que, bajo los términos del Contrato Básico, le correspondía abonar a la Fundación en las fechas 4 de junio de 1944 y 3 de abril de 1945.
C. Quedó estipulado , sin embargo , que de los US$27,800.00 que la Fundación convenía en poner a la disposición del S.C.P.N.E. bajo este nuevo acuerdo , la Fundación retendría en Washington la suma de $25,483.33 , que sería destinada a cubrir los gastos en Dólares en que el Servicio incurriera ; y que la Fundación depositaría en la cuenta del S.C.P.N.E. en el Perú la suma de US$2,316.67.
D. Se convino, además, en que el depositario oficial de los fondos del S.C.P.N.E. en Lima, Perú, sería la Oficina de Lima del National City Bank of New York.

Apr. 1 , 4, 15, 1944 61 STAT.] PERU-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Jan. 30, Apr. 30, 1945
Cláusula V
El acuerdo a que se hace referencia en la Cláusula IV de este documento, quedó involucrada en parte en los párrafos 1 y 2 del Acuerdo Suplementario N° 1 , de fecha 30 de enero de 1945, firmado en Lima, Perú, por el Ingº Enrique Laroza, en su calidad de Ministro de Educación Pública, y por el Dr. Reginald C. Reindorp, como Director Interino del S.C.P.N.E.
Cláusula VI
Con el objeto de aclarar el contenido del Acuerdo Suplementario N° 1 y establecer por escrito la amplitud del nuevo arreglo al que se refiere la Cláusula IV del presente documento , los suscritos acuerdan que:
A. Este Convenio anula y reemplaza los párrafos 1 y 2 del Acuerdo Suplementario N° 1.
B. El Gobierno del Perú depositará en la cuenta del S.C.P.N.E. en la Oficina de Lima del National City Bank of New York, durante el año calendario 1945 , el equivalente en Soles de US$ 57,333.34 , debiendo hacerse la conversión al tipo de cambio de 6.485 Soles Oro por cada Dólar Americano, o sea, un total de Soles 371,806.67, cuya suma se abonará en la forma siguiente:
Durante el mes de enero de 1945 , la suma de S/.30,983.88 Durante el mes de febrero de 1945, la suma de S/.30,983.88 Durante el mes de marzo de 1945, la suma de S/.30,983.88 Durante el mes de abril de 1945, la suma de S/.30,983.88 Durante el mes de mayo de 1945, la suma de S/.30,983.88 Durante el mes de junio de 1945, la suma de S/.30,983.88 Durante el mes de julio de 1945, la suma de S/.30,983.88 Durante el mes de agosto de 1945 , la suma de S/.30,983.88 Durante el mes de setiembre de 1945, la suma de S/ .30,983.88 Durante el mes de octubre de 1945, la suma de S/.30,983.88 Durante el mes de noviembre de 1945, la suma de S/.30,983.88 Durante el mes de diciembre de 1945, la suma de S/.30,983.88
C. La Fundación pondrá a disposición del S.C.P.N.E. , durante el año calendario 1945 , la suma de US$27800.00 . De esta suma, la Fundación depositará en la cuenta del S.C.P.N.E. en la oficina de Lima del National City Bank of New York, durante el año calendario 1945, la suma de US$2,316.67 y retendrá en Washington la suma de US$ 25,483.33 . La suma retenida servirá para financiar la visita de educadores Peruanos a los Estados Unidos, para financiar la compra de materiales , útiles y equipo que necesariamente deban adquirise en los Estados Unidos , todo ello de acuerdo con, y para los fines delineados en el párrafo 8 del Contrato Básico del 4 de abril de 1944. La aplicación específica que ha de darse a los fondos retenidos por la Fundación, en Washington, será materia de acuerdos escritos, aprobados conjuntamente por el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación.

3891

3892

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
D. La Fundación declara , por el presente documento , que el Gobierno del Perú ha depositado en la cuenta del S.C.P.N.E. en la Oficina de Lima del National City Bank of New York, la suma total de S/.123,935.52 , en cuatro partidas iguales de S/.30,983.88, en las siguientes fechas respectivamente: 30 de enero de 1945, 28 de febrero de 1945 , 2 de abril de 1945, y 12 de abril de 1945. El Gobierno del Perú declara que la Fundación ha depositado con fecha 26 de enero de 1945 , en la cuenta del S.C.P.N.E. en la Oficina de Lima del National City Bank of New York, la suma de US$2,316.67.
E. Los fondos del S.C.P.N.E. serán depositados a su nombre en la Oficina de Lima del National City Bank of New York. El Director del S.C.P.N.E. está autorizado para girar cheques contra esta cuenta y para usar esos fondos para el pago de los gastos del S.C.P.N.E. que hayan sido aprobados previamente por el Ministro. Cláusula VII
Ambas partes convienen en que todas las estipulaciones del Contrato Básico y de todos los otros contratos que se hayan suscrito al respecto, conservarán su fuerza y vigencia, en todas sus partes, con excepción de aquellas cláusulas o párrafos que han sido específicamente modificados por el presente documento .
EN FE DE LO CUAL, ambas partes firman el presente Acuerdo, por intermedio de sus representantes autorizados , en el día, mes y año que se citan en primer término del presente documento.
Por el GOBIERNO DEL PERU E LAROZA
Ministro de Educación Pública
Por la FUNDACION INTER-AMERICANA DE EDUCACION, INC. J GRAHAM SULLIVAN
Representante Especial

61 STAT.] SWEDEN-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES-SEPT. 30, 1946

3893

Agreement between the United States of America and Sweden respecting air service facilities in Sweden. Signed at Stockholm September 30, 1946; entered into force September 30, 1946.
MINISTERE DES
AFFAIRES ETRANGERES

S[eTp.teI.mbAe.rS.301, 714924]6

SERVICE AGREEMENT
The Swedish Government agrees :
1) to operate and maintain all facilities continuously in a manner adequate for the air traffic operating into and away from the airdrome at which the facilities are located and along the recognized international air routes converging on that airdrome and in order to insure this standard of service, the Swedish Government agrees to abide by approved Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization (PICAO) standards of operation unless and until changed by other international agreement to which the United States and Sweden are parties ;
2) to provide the full service of all facilities to all aircraft on a non-discriminatory basis with charges, if any, only for non-operational messages until an international agreement on charges has been promulgated by the PICAO ;
3) to transmit weather reports according to PICAO standards to such stations as are required to insure an integrated meteorological network for the international air routes unless and until changed by international agreement to which the United States and Sweden are a party covering all meteorological requirements ;
4) to continue the operation of all types of facilities in their original location until new facilties are installed in accordance with standards
promulgated by the PICAO, or until it is determined by the Swedish Government and the United States Government that there is no longer a need for the original facilities, it being understood that the aeronautical communication service facilities will be devoted exclusively to that service and will not be diverted to the general communication service ;
5) to provide English-speaking operators at air to ground and control tower communication positions until regulations covering such voice transmissions are promulgated by the PICAO ;
6) to select radio frequencies for air to ground and control tower operations only in accordance with PICAO standards and recommendations after coordination with the using United States carriers and with adjacent stations on the recognized international air routes converging on the airdrome in order to minimize ( a ) radio interference and (b) the number frequencies to be operated by aircraft ;

3894

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Technical adviser,

7) to authorize and facilitate day-to-day adjustments in air communication service matters by direct communication between the operating agency of Sweden and the service agency of the United States Government, United States air carriers, or a communication company representing one or more of them ;
8) the agency prescribed by the Swedish Government will operate these communication facilities according to PICAO regulations and recommendations and in an manner which will assure the safety and efficiency of United States airline operations. If it is deemed necessary, the agency designated by the Swedish Government will, furthermore, request the United States air carriers, or the Civil Aeronautics Administration to designate a technical adviser to advise and assist it in the operation of these facilities.

Done at Stockholm, in duplicate, in the English language, this 30th

day of September, 1946.

SVEN GRAFSTRÖM

Sven Grafström , Chief of the Political Department of the Royal Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the Royal Swedish Government.
L. RANDOLPH HIGGS

L. Randolph Higgs , Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the American Legation, on behalf of the Government of the United States of America.

:

61 STAT.]

CHINA- MUTUAL AID-JUNE 28, 1946

3895

Agreement between the United States of America and China respecting mutual aid, implementing further a preliminary agreement of June 2, 1942. Signed at Washington June 28, 1946; entered into force June 28, 1946.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA UNDER SECTION 3 (c) OF THE LEND-LEASE ACT

June 28, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1746]

As parties signatory to the United Nations Declaration of January 1, 1942, the Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of China have pledged themselves to employ their full resources, military and economic, against those nations with which they are at war.
The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of China in further implementation of their Mutual Aid Agreement of June 2, 1942, desire to insure the continuing provision of defense articles, services and information for the Chinese armed forces, including equipment and training, during the period of reoccupation by the Republic of China of its areas occupied by the forces of Japan and of the disarmament and repatriation of Japanese forces remaining on Chinese territory, and during the period of occupation of Japan by the forces of the Republic of China, the United States of America and their allies.
Wherefore, the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of China agree as follows :

55 Stat. 1600, 56 Stat. 1494.

ARTICLE I
All aid undertaken to be provided by the Government of the United States of America under this Agreement shall be made available under the authority and subject to the terms and conditions of the Act of March 11 , 1941, as amended, and any appropriation acts thereunder.
ARTICLE II

Authority for aid.
55 Stat. 31. 22 U.S. C. §§ 411-419.

The Government of the United States of America will continue after June 30, 1946 to supply the Government of the Republic of China with such defense articles, defense services and defense information as the President of the United States of America shall authorize to be

Supply of defense articles, etc., to China.

supplied

3896

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

(a) for the purpose of the reoccupation of China and the disarmament and repatriation of Japanese troops during a period of time ending on or before October 31, 1946, and in an amount not exceeding $25,000,000 in terms of cost incurred by the Government of the United States of America,
(b) for the purposes of the occupation of Japan for the period of such occupation, but in no event after June 30 , 1949, and in an amount determined by the Senior United States Commander in Japan to be necessary to supplement the articles, services and information available to the Chinese forces from the resources of the Republic of China, and
(c) for the purposes of training, in the United States and elsewhere, of members of the Chinese armed forces, including the so-called air, naval, ground and medical training programs, during the period of time required for the completion of such training but in no event after December 31 , 1947 , and in an amount not exceeding $15,000,000 in terms of cost incurred by the Government of the United States of America,

subject to the provisions of Article III hereof.

ARTICLE III

Price.

The appropriate price to be charged the Government of the Republic of China, as determined by the Government of the United States of America, for articles, services and information furnished to the Government of the Republic of China under Article II hereof shall be paid by the Government of the Republic of China to the Government of the United States of America upon presentation of bills therefor.

ARTICLE IV

Transfers.

Transfers made under the authority of this Agreement shall in all respects be subject to the terms of Articles III and IV of the Agreement of June 2 , 1942 between the Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of China.

ARTICLE V

55 Stat. 31. 22 U.S. C. §§ 411-419.
56 Stat. 1494.

Nothing in this Agreement shall modify or otherwise affect the final determination, under the Act of March 11 , 1941 , as amended, and the Mutual Aid Agreement between the two Governments of June 2, 1942, of the terms and conditions upon which the Republic of China has received aid except for the articles and services made available under the provisions of this Agreement.

Effective date.

ARTICLE VI
This Agreement shall take effect on the date of signature. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned , duly authorized by their re-

61 STAT.]

CHINA- MUTUAL AID-JUNE 28, 1946

spective Governments , have signed the present Agreement in duplicate at Washington on the 28th day of June 1946.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

3897

Chester 8. Lame CHESTER T. LANE
DEPUTY FOREIGN LIQUIDATION COMMISSIONER DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Show Cinit A ong SHOU CHIN WANG
CHAIRMAN OF THE CHINESE SUPPLY COMMISSION

3898

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

June 18, July 15, August 9, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1748]

Agreement between the United States of America and Hungary respecting American dead in World War II. Effected by exchanges of notes dated at Budapest June 18, July 15, and August 9, 1946; entered into force August 9, 1946.

The American Legation to the Hungarian Ministry for Foreign Affairs

LEGATION OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 221

Interment of American military person-

The American Legation presents its compliments to the Ministry

nel.

for Foreign Affairs and has the honor to submit for the consideration

of the Hungarian Government the text of a bi-lateral agreement which

the United States Government desires to conclude with the Hungarian Government concerning the interment of American military personnel

in Hungary.

"The following shall govern relative to the disposal of the remains of deceased persons who were citizens of the United States and/or who served or who accompanied the armed forces of the United States and are now buried in Hungary or any possession or territory now or hereafter subject to the control of the Hungarian Government.

U. S. rights, etc.

"1. The United States, through its duly designated representatives, shall have the following rights, privileges and prerogatives :

Temporary ceme- "A. The Government of the United States shall have the right to teries.
establish and maintain such temporary cemeteries as are necessary for

the burial of deceased persons subject to its control and to make ex-

humations therefrom for repatriation or concentration into other

cemeteries abroad, and may move bodies from other countries into

and/or through Hungary and its territories and possessions for inter-

ment and/or transhipment.

Exemption from national laws relating to

"B. The Government of the United States shall be exempt from all

pmeernmti,testc.for disinter- national, local, or other laws and/or regulations relating to the permits for disinterments ; sanitation , upon an assurance that such work will

be conducted in a manner not detrimental to public health ; and from

the payment of any duties, taxes, or fees of any kind required for the

Free entrance and exit, etc.
Post, p. 3900.

burial, disinterment for reburial or movement of bodies or the maintenance of graves.
"C. The Government of the United States shall have the right of free entrance and exit for all personnel, supplies, transportation ( air,

mail, animal, motor, and water) serving or belonging to the United

States and the use of air fields, port facilities, warehousing, living

boErm. ployment of la- quarters , office space, rail and water transportation and the right to

June 18, July 15, 1946 61 STAT. ] HUNGARY-AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II-- Aug. 9, 1946

3899

employ labor in Hungary, its territories and possessions , essential to the accomplishment of its mission upon payment of just compensation therefor.
"D. The Government of the United States shall have the unrestricted

Search for remains.

right of search for the remains of members of its armed forces, and/or its citizens.
"E. The Government of the United States shall have the unrestricted

Post, p. 3900.

right to examine and copy all records, military or civilian, which may be of assistance in locating the graves, or identifying the remains of its deceased military or civilian personnel.
"F. The Government of the United States shall have the right to question and examine citizens of Hungary and to take affidavits in furtherance of its search for, and identification of remains of members of its armed forces, and/or its citizens.

Post, p. 3900,

Assistance from "2. The Government of Hungary will render all possible assistance Hungarian Govern.
in locating and securing the effects of deceased military and civilian ment.

personnel of the United States, and upon demand and the furnishing of a proper receipt will turn over to representatives of the United States all effects so located and secured.
"3. If in the future the Government of the United States wishes to

establish permanent cemeteries or erect memorials in Hungary, the Hungarian Government will exercise its power of eminent domain to acquire title to such sites and grant to the United States the right to use therein in perpetuity upon payment by the United States of just compensation therefor. Any sites acquired including improvements thereto and buildings constructed thereon shall be exempt from any and all form of taxation, direct or indirect. The provisions of paragraphs 1-A, B, and C will apply in the construction and maintenance of such permanent cemeteries and memorials as may be desired."

The above proposed agreement in effect confirms an understanding

between the United States Military Mission and the former Mayor of Budapest, Mr. Vas Zoltan. The Legation understands that in accordance with this agreement, the city of Budapest on September 14, 1945, issued Decree No. 179,880/1945 X establishing a temporary cemetery

Budapest decree of Sept. 14, 1945.

for American military personnel and that two letters signed by Mr. Vas dated September 7, 1945 ( reference no. 179,249 ) and September

14, 1945 ( reference no. 179,880 ) implemented this decree by assigning property and by directing the carrying out of arrangements for improvements and buildings.
The United States Government desires to emphasize that in propos-

ing this bi-lateral agreement it is not its intention to make a permanent arrangement for the establishment of a military cemetery but only to assure the right of temporary burial.
The Legation would appreciate the courtesy of the Ministry for For-

eign Affairs in advising it whether the agreement set out above is acceptable to the Hungarian Government and, if so , will be glad to

receive as urgently as may be possible the confirmation of the Ministry

3900
Ante, p. 3898. Ante, p. 3898. Ante, p. 3899. Ante, p. 3899.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
to that effect so that the agreement represented by the present exchange of notes may be considered as being in force. BUDAPEST ,
June 18, 1946.
The Hungarian Ministry for Foreign Affairs to the American Legation
Hungarian Ministry for Foreign Affairs. 103.606/10a- 1946. VERBAL NOTE
The Hungarian Ministry for Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Legation of the United States of America and, with reference to the Legation's Note N° 221 of June 18th, 1946, concerning the conclusion of a bi-lateral agreement between the Hungarian Government and the United States Government on the interment of American military personnel in Hungary, has the honor to inform the hon. Legation that the Hungarian Government is ready to conclude a bi-lateral agreement with the United States Government by way of an exchange of Notes.
As to Art. 1 points A and B of the projected agreement /mentioned in the Legation's Note/ they are acceptable for the Hungarian Government without any objection. As to Point C of Art. 1 the Hungarian Government has the honor to remark that actually the right of free entrance to and exit from Hungary depends on the permission of the Allied Control Commission in Hungary even for citizens of the United Nations. This restriction also concerns the entrance and exit of supplies and transportations of any kind /air, mail, animal , motor and water/. It must be mentioned here that Hungarian air-ports are not all under the control of the Hungarian Government. The use of Hungarian air-ports shall be in any case subjected to the respect of the agreement with the Hungarian Russian Civilian Air-Transport Company.
Point D is acceptable for the Hungarian Government. As to point E, the Hungarian Governement has the honor to object that this point cannot be interpreted in the sense that the authorities of the United States shall have the unrestricted right to examine the Hungarian Archives. This point should be changed to the effect that the Hungarian authorities shall be obliged to submit to the American authorities for official use and copying all records which may be of assistance in locating graves, or identifying the remains of deceased American military or civilian personnel . Point F of the projected agreement /right to question and examine citizens of Hungary and to take affidavits in furtherance of its search for and identification of remains of members of its armed forces, and for its citizens/ could be accepted with the restriction that declarations to be made under oath by Hungarian citizens can be carried out only by way of the competent Hungarian Tribunals of 1st instance/Justices

61 STAT. ] HUNGARY-AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II- June 18, July 15, 1946 Aug. 9, 1946
of Peace/ and therefore American authorities shall be obliged to address themselves to the competent Hungarian Tribunal /forum loci/.
In case the Government of the United States of America would be inclined to accept the above-mentioned restrictions the projected bilateral agreement could come into force on the day when the Hungarian Government will be informed of the acceptance of the said restrictions.
BUDAPEST, July 15th, 1946.
GYMI N

3901

YA AG M

FINISZTERIUM

The American Legation to the Hungarian Ministry for Foreign Affairs

No. 294

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

The Legation of the United States presents its compliments to the Hungarian Ministry for Foreign Affairs and has the honor to refer to the Ministry's note no. 103.606/ -10a-1946 concerning the conclusion of the bi-lateral agreement between the Hungarian Government and

Ante, p. 3899.

the United States Government on the interment of American military

personnel in Hungary.
U. S. acceptance of The United States Government accepts the modifications of modifications.

Article I, Sections E and F as proposed in the Ministry's note under reference. Accordingly the agreement as proposed in the Legation's

Effective date.

note no. 221 of June 18 , 1946 and as modified in the Ministry's note under reference is considered to be in effect from this date.

BUDAPEST

August 9, 1946.

95347°-50- PT .IV- -36

3902

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

October142, , 1N94o7vember [T. I. A. S. 1749]

Agreement between the United States of America and Ecuador respecting a cooperative educational program in Ecuador, extending and modifying an agreement of January 22, 1945. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Quito October 2 and November 14, 1947; effective from January 22, 1948.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Ecuadoran Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 325

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Quito, October 2, 1947

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the exchange of notes between His Ex-

cellency Sr. Dr. Camilo Ponce Enriquez, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Government of Ecuador, and The Honorable Robert McGregor Scotten, Ambassador of the United States to the Government of Ecua-

p.631257S.tat ., Pt. 3,

dor, on January 22, 1945 , concerning the establishment of a cooperative education program in Ecuador. It will be recalled that my Government agreed to send a small staff of experts and technicians to Ecuador to cooperate with officials of the Ecuadoran Government and,

particularly, with the Minister of Public Education, in a specific program for the improvement of public education in Ecuador in accord-

ance with a detailed agreement to be worked out between the Ministry of Public Education and the Inter-American Educational Founda-

tion, Inc.

Following the exchange of the above communications, details with
regard to the execution of the program were agreed to by the Minister of Public Education and the President of the Inter-American Educa-

tional Foundation, Inc. In accordance with this agreement there was established within the Ministry of Public Education the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educacion through which the cooperative program has been administered .

In accordance with recent legislation passed by the Congress of the United States of America, all of the property, assets, functions,

personnel , liabilities and restrictions of the Inter-American Educa-

Additional funds.

tional Foundation , Inc., have been transferred to and assumed by The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, the now corporate instrumentality of the United States Government created by such legislative action.
I have now been informed by the Department of State in Washington that additional funds amounting to $7,168 U.S. currency have

been made available by The Institute of Inter- American Affairs for the continuation of the joint education program in Ecuador to be ex-

pended over a period to be mutually agreed upon by the appropriate officials of the Ecuadoran Government and a representative of The

Oct. 2 , 1947 61 STAT. ] ECUADOR- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Nov. 14, 1947
Institute of Inter-American Affairs. It has been suggested that the extension of the program cover the period from the expiration date of the present agreement, which is January 22 , 1948 , through June 30, 1948. It is proposed that the entire additional contribution of $7,168 U. S. currency, to be made available by the Institute in connection with the continuation of the program, shall be retained by the Institute for payment directly or on account of salaries and other expenses of members of the Institute field staff who are maintained by the Institute in Ecuador. It is also understood that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for expenditure by that entity not less than the equivalent in sucres of $7,000 U.S. currency, computed at the rate of exchange of 13.4 sucres to the dollar in addition to amounts already required under the present agreement to be contributed to the program by your Government.
If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed arrangement as outlined above is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the program may be worked out by the Ministry of Public Education and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs.
Should Your Excellency advise me that the proposed arrangement is acceptable it would be possible to proceed with the signing of the extension agreement in the name of the Institute immediately, inasmuch as Dr. Pedro Osuna , Special Representative Education Division, The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, in Ecuador, has been authorized to sign on behalf of the Institute.
A copy of a suggested extension agreement is attached hereto for reference to the appropriate interested authorities.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
GEO. P. SHAW
Chargé d'Affaires, a.i.
His Excellency Dr. JOSÉ VICENTE TRUJILLO, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Quito.

3903

3904 Post, p. 3912.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT. EXTENSION AGREEMENT

The Republic of Ecuador ( hereinafter referred to as the "Re-

public " ) , represented by the Minister of Public Education ( hereinafter referred to as the "Minister" ) , and The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs (hereinafter referred to as the "Institute") , a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America and successor to the Inter-American Educational Founda-

tion, Inc., (hereinafter referred to as the "Foundation" ) , represented by its Special Representative, Education Division, Dr. Pedro Osuna

p .631257S.tat .,

Pt . 3,

(hereinafter referred to as the "Special Representative" ) , have agreed to extend and modify, in the manner hereinafter set forth, the Agreement executed by the Republic and the Foundation on January 22, 1945, (hereinafter referred to as the "Agreement") , providing for a cooperative education program in Ecuador.

CLAUSE I

The said cooperative education program is hereby extended for an additional period of approximately six months from the twentysecond day of January 1948 through the thirtieth day of June 1948.
CLAUSE II

The said cooperative education program shall continue to include :
a. Furnishing by the Institute of a small field staff of education specialists for service in Ecuador in carrying out the cooperative education program.
b. Grants to permit Ecuadoran educators to go to the United States for specialized training, to lecture , to teach and to interchange ideas and experiences with United States educators.
c. Exploration and survey in Ecuador of local needs and resources for carrying out educational projects at the primary and secondary school levels and in teacher education.
d. Development, adaptation , and exchange of suitable teaching materials for teachers at the primary, secondary and teacher education levels.
e. Local projects needed to implement the program in Ecuador.
The cooperative program of education shall continue to be limited to relatively few projects , each of which is of special interest to the Government of Ecuador, in order that definite results may be obtained and that such results will be indicative of the cooperation existing between the Government of Ecuador and the Government of the United States in the important field of public education.
The Ministry of Education considers the solution of the following problems as being particularly important :
a. The training of school administrators ( school directors, school inspectors, provincial directors of education, etc.)
b. The orientation of technical and vocational schools, both urban and rural, at the elementary and secondary level.

Oct. 2, 1947 61 STAT. ] ECUADOR- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Nov. 14, 1947
c. Orientation of schools of teacher education. d. Orientation of pre-school education.
CLAUSE III
The field staff of the Institute shall be under the direction of the Special Representative who shall be the representative of the Institute in connection with the program to be carried on in accordance with this Extension Agreement. The Special Representative and other members of the Institute field staff shall be acceptable to the Minister of Public Education,
CLAUSE IV
The special technical service created in the Ministry of Public Education in Ecuador, pursuant to the Agreement, under the name of "Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación ", (hereinafter called the "Servicio") , shall act as an intermediary between the Government of Ecuador and the Institute, and shall continue to carry out the cooperative education program. The Special Representative of the Institute shall be the Director of the Servicio.
CLAUSE V
The cooperative education program shall continue to consist of individual projects. The kind of work and the specific projects to be undertaken in the execution of this Extension Agreement and the allocation of funds therefor shall be agreed upon in writing by the Minister and the Special Representative, and shall be carried out by the Director of the Servicio in conformity with policies prescribed jointly by the Minister and the Special Representative. The Ecuadoran educators to be sent to the United States and the terms of their scholarships or grants shall be mutually agreed upon in writing by the Minister and the Special Representative.
CLAUSE VI
The Institute shall determine and pay the salaries and other expenses payable directly to , or on account of, members of the Institute field staff in an amount not to exceed Seven Thousand One Hundred Sixty-eight Dollars ( $7,168 ) U.S. currency, which shall be in addition to the Seventy Thousand Dollars ( $70,000) allocated for such purpose in Paragraph Five (5) of the Agreement and which Seven Thousand One Hundred Sixty-eight Dollars ( $7,168 ) shall be retained in the United States by the Institute, making a total of Seventy-seven Thousand One Hundred Sixty-eight Dollars ($77,168 ) which has been allocated by the Foundation and the Institute for such purposes and shall also be in addition to the Thirty Thousand Dollars ( $30,000) which the Foundation agreed to deposit to the account of the Servicio pursuant to the said Paragraph Five (5) of the Agreement , making a total aggregate amount of One Hundred Seven Thousand One Hundred Sixty-eight Dollars ( $ 107,168 ) allocated by the Foundation and the Institute for the cooperative education program .

3905

3906

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

The Republic shall deposit in the Banco Central del Ecuador in

Quito (or in any other bank which shall be mutually agreed upon

by the Minister and the Special Representative ) to the account of

the Servicio the sum of Sucres ( S/.

) , being the

equivalent of not less than Seven Thousand Dollars ( $7,000 ) U.S.

currency, at the rate of exchange of 13.4 sucres per dollar. The de-

posit required to be made by the Republic hereby shall be made during

the month of February 1948, and the said deposit shall be in addition

to the Republic's regular budget for education and in addition to

the total amount specified in the Agreement to be deposited by the Republic to the account of the Servicio.

CLAUSE VII

Any of the funds introduced into Ecuador by the Institute for the purpose of the cooperative education program shall be exempt from taxes, service charges, investment or deposit requirements, and other currency controls, and shall be converted into sucres at a rate of exchange not less than 13.4 per dollar. Similarly, where it is necessary to convert sucres into dollars for the financing of scholarships or grants or other expenditures in the United States, the sucres shall be converted into dollars at a rate of exchange of not more than 13.5 sucres per dollar.
CLAUSE VIII

Any funds heretofore withheld by the Foundation pursuant to agreement between the Minister and the Special Representative of the Foundation for the purchase of materials and supplies and other disbursements in the United States of America relating to the execution of the cooperative education program and not expended or obligated therefor shall be deposited in the Servicio bank account at any time upon the mutual agreement of the Minister and the Special Representative.
CLAUSE IX
All contracts necessary to carry out the terms of the projects mutually agreed to as herein provided shall be made in the name of the Servicio and shall be signed by the Director of the Servicio. Personnel to be paid out of program funds deposited in Ecuador shall be selected by the Director of the Servicio, subject to the approval of the Minister. The general policies and procedures for the execution of the program and for the disbursement and accounting of funds, for the purchase, use, inventory, control and disposition of property, and any other administrative matters, shall be determined or established by mutual agreement between the Minister and the Special Representative. No disbursement from the said Servicio bank account may be made without the signed authorization of the Director of the Servicio or his delegate and of the Minister or his delegate. Checks for an amount of more than Three Thousand Sucres ( S/. 3,000 ) also shall bear both signatures. The books and records of the Servicio relating to the said cooperative education program shall be open at all times for inspection by representatives of the Republic and of the Institute,

Oct. 2, 1947 61 STAT. ] ECUADOR- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Nov. 14, 1947
and the Director of the Servicio shall render financial reports to the Republic and to the Institute at such intervals as may be agreed upon between the Minister and the Special Representative.
CLAUSE X
The Institute shall use its best efforts to obtain such assistance and cooperation of other agencies, both public and private, in the United States, as may be appropriate for the execution of the said cooperative education program. The Republic, in addition to its cash contribution as provided herein, shall ( a ) appoint specialists, in agreement with the Director of the Servicio, to collaborate with the field staff of the Institute ; (b) make available office space, furnishings and such other facilities, materials, equipment and supplies as it may conveniently provide for the said program ; and (c ) lend the general assistance thereto of the other departments of the Republic.
CLAUSE XI
The funds payable by the Institute under the Agreement of this Extension Agreement, or paid by the parties hereto into the said Servicio bank account, shall continue to be available for the said cooperative education program during the existence of this Extension Agreement, without regard to annual periods or fiscal years.
In the event that the Institute deems that the funds or any portion thereof which it has set aside for the payment of salaries and other expenses directly payable to, or on account of, members of the field staff, as provided in Clause VI hereof, will be more than is needed for that purpose, or for any other purpose of the Institute, the Institute will thereupon advise the Republic of the surplus which it can accordingly make available for projects and such additional sum shall be paid into the Servicio bank account or be otherwise disposed of pursuant to this Agreement.
The Minister and the Special Representative of the Institute shall determine by mutual agreement the disposition of any unobligated funds and of any other personal property remaining in the control of the Servicio upon the termination of this Extension Agreement.
CLAUSE XII
All employees of the Institute who are citizens of the United States of America and are engaged in carrying out the objectives of the cooperative education program shall be exempt from all income taxes and social security taxes with respect to income on which they are obligated to pay income or social security taxes to the Government of the United States of America and from property taxes on personal property intended for their own use. The employees who are members of the field staff of the Institute and members of their families who reside with them in Ecuador shall also be exempt from payment of customs and import duties on their personal effects and equipment and supplies for their own use and from investment and deposit requirements and from costs of foreign exchange conversions on funds brought into Ecuador for their normal living expenses.

3907

3908

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

CLAUSE XIII

All rights and privileges which are enjoyed by governmental and official divisions or agencies of the Republic shall accrue to the Servicio. Such rights and privileges shall include, for example, free postal , telegraph, and telephone service, special government rates from transportation companies and also freedom and immunity from excise, stamp, property, income and all other taxes, as well as from consular charges and customs duties upon imports for the use of the Servicio in the cooperative education program. The Institute shall enjoy the same rights and exemptions with respect to its acts and property relating to the cooperative education program.
CLAUSE XIV

All materials, equipment, and supplies purchased with funds of the Servicio shall become and remain the property of the Republic and shall be devoted to the program .

CLAUSE XV

Any rights, powers, or duties conferred by this Extension Agree-

ment upon either the Minister, the Special Representative, or the

Director of the Servicio, may be delegated by the recipient thereof to

representatives in writing, provided that such representatives are satis-

factory to the other parties. Regardless of the naming of said repre-

sentatives, the Minister and the Special Representative shall have the

right to refer any matter directly to one another for discussion and

decision.

CLAUSE XVI

The Executive Power of the Republic will take the necessary steps to obtain the legislation, decrees, orders or resolutions necessary to carry out the terms of this Extension Agreement.
CLAUSE XVII

This Extension Agreement supersedes the Agreement in all respects whatsoever and shall become effective as soon as diplomatic

notes confirming and accepting this Extension Agreement have been

exchanged between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Govern-

ment of Ecuador and the Embassy of the United States of America

to Ecuador, or upon the date of execution hereof in the event that

diplomatic notes approving the extension of the cooperative education

program as herein provided have heretofore been exchanged.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Extension

Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives,

in duplicate, in the English and Spanish languages, at Quito, Ecuador,

this

day of

9 194 .

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR FOR THE INSTITUTE OF INTERAMERICAN AFFAIRS

PEDRO OSUNA Special Representative Education Division

Oct. 2 , 1947 61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Nov. 14, 1947
The Ecuadoran Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
REPÚBLICA DÉL ECUADOR MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

DEPARTAMENTO DIPLOMATICO

N° 265 - DDP

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

QUITO, a 14 Nov. 1947

Tengo a honra referirme, una vez más, a la atenta comunicación de Vuestra Excelencia número 325 , de 2 de octubre último , y a la mía de respuesta número 231-DDP, de 18 del mismo mes, sobre la extensión del Convenio para el funcionamiento del Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación en el Ecuador, por el período comprendido entre el 22 de enero y el 30 de junio de 1948.

2. De acuerdo con lo que me permití expresar en el párrafo 5 de mi nota que menciono, y en vista de la contestación dada por el Ministerio de Educación Pública a mi consulta al respecto , me honro en manifestar hoy a Vuestra Excelencia que mi Gobierno aprecia la importancia y utilidad de las labores a cargo del Servicio Cooperativo de Educación y considera indispensable que lleguen a terminarse ; por lo que conviene y acepta complacido la propuesta formulada por Vuestra Excelencia en la estimable comunicación que cito, o sea en la extensión del programa que desarrolla en el país el Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación, desde el 22 de enero hasta el 30 de junio de 1948 , con sujeción a cuanto se estipula en el proyecto del respectivo convenio, anexo a la nota de Vuestra Excelencia número 325, de 2 de octubre de 1947 , el mismo que ha sido discutido y convenido previamente entre el Ministerio de Educación Pública y el Señor Doctor Pedro Osuna, Representante Especial en el Ecuador de la División Educativa del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos.

3. Con el objeto de hacer efectiva esta extensión de dicho programa hasta la fecha mencionada en el párrafo anterior, el Ministerio de Educación Pública hará constar en su presupuesto para el año de 1948 la partida necesaria a tal objeto ; esto es, el equivalente en sucres de siete mil dólares norteamericanos (US$ 7.000,00) , computados a un tipo de cambio de trece sucres, cuarenta centavos de sucre por dólar (S/. 13.40) , cantidad que, sumada a los siete mil ciento sesenta y ocho dólares norteamericanos (US$ 7.168,00 ) de que dispone el Instituto , cubrirá la función económica del Servicio Cooperativo de Educación en el Ecuador, hasta el 30 de junio de 1948.
4. Por lo tanto, me es grato comunicar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Ministerio de Educación Pública está dispuesto a suscribir el correspondiente Convenio de extensión del Servicio Cooperativo de Educación Pública en el Ecuador, con el Señor Representante de la División Educativa del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos de conformidad con el texto sugerido por Vuestra Excelencia y cuanto ha sido acordado en las conversaciones a que aludo, sostenidas entre los competentes funcionarios.

3909

3910

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
Válgome de esta grata oportunidad, para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
Por el Ministro , el Subsecretario ad- interim

Al Excelentísimo Señor JOHN F. SIMMONS,

Dr. Luis Coloma Silva .

Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América.

Translation
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS

DIPLOMATIC DEPARTMENT

No. 265-DDP.

QUITO, November 14, 1947
MR. AMBASSADOR :
I have the honor to refer once more to Your Excellency's courteous communication No. 325 of October 2 last and to my communication No. 231-DDP [¹] in reply, dated the 18th of the same month, regarding the extension of the Agreement for the functioning of the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación in Ecuador for the period between January 22 and June 30, 1948 . 2. In accordance with what I took the liberty of stating in paragraph 5 of my aforesaid note, and in view of the reply of the Ministry of Public Education to my inquiry in the matter, I have the honor to inform Your Excellency today that my Government appreciates the importance and usefulness of the work being done by the Servicio Cooperativo de Educación and considers it essential that it be carried through to its conclusion. Therefore, it agrees to and accepts with pleasure the proposal formulated by Your Excellency in the valued communication to which I refer, namely, to extension from January 22 to June 30, 1948 , of the program which the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación is carrying out in this country ; subject to the provisions of the draft agreement thereunto appertaining, enclosed with Your Excellency's note No. 325 of October 2 , 1947, the same that was previously discussed and agreed to by the Ministry of Public Education and Dr. Pedro Osuna, Special Representative in Ecuador of the Education Division of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .

3. For the purpose of making this extension of the said program effective until the date mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the Ministry of Public Education will include in its budget for the year 1948 the item necessary for that purpose ; that is to say, the equivalent

1 ¹

[Not

printed. ]

Oct. 2, 1947 61 STAT. ] ECUADOR- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Nov. 14, 1947
in sucres of Seven Thousand Dollars ( $7,000.00 U.S. currency) , computed at the rate of exchange of thirteen sucres, forty centavos (S/.13.40 ) per dollar, which amount, added to the Seven Thousand One Hundred and Sixty-eight Dollars ( $7,168.00 U.S. currency) that the Institute has at its disposal , will cover the financial requirements of the Servicio Cooperativo de Educación in Ecuador until June 30, 1948.
4. I therefore take pleasure in informing Your Excellency that the Ministry of Public Education is prepared to sign the Agreement in question for extension of the Servicio Cooperativo de Educación Pública in Ecuador with the Representative of the Education Division of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, in conformity with the text proposed by Your Excellency and with what was agreed upon in the aforesaid conversations that took place between the competent officials.
I avail myself of this welcome opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
For the Minister : LUIS COLOMA SILVA Dr. Luis COLOMA SILVA.
Under Secretary ad interim.
His Excellency JOHN F. SIMMONS, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America.

3911

3912

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. EXTENSION AGREEMENT

The Republic of Ecuador ( hereinafter referred to as the "Republic") , represented by the Minister of Public Education (hereinafter referred to as the "Minister ") , and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs ( hereinafter referred to as the "Institute") , a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America and successor to the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc., (hereinafter referred to as the "Foundation ") , represented by its Special Representative, Education Division, Dr. Pedro Osuna ( hereinafter referred to as the "Special Representative" ) , have agreed to extend and modify, in the manner hereinafter set forth, the Agreep.631257S.tat . , Pt . 3, ment executed by the Republic and the Foundation on January 22, 1945, (hereinafter referred to as the "Agreement") , providing for a cooperative education program in Ecuador.
CLAUSE I Period of extension.
The said cooperative education program is hereby extended for an additional period of approximately six months from the twentysecond day of January 1948 through the thirtieth day of June 1948,
CLAUSE II
The said cooperative education program shall continue to include :
a. Furnishing by the Institute of a small field staff of education specialists for service in Ecuador in carrying out the cooperative education program.
b. Grants to permit Ecuadoran educators to go to the United States for specialized training, to lecture, to teach and to interchange ideas and experiences with United States educators.
c. Exploration and survey in Ecuador of local needs and resources for carrying out educational projects at the primary and secondary school levels and in teacher education.
d. Development, adaptation , and exchange of suitable teaching materials for teachers at the primary, secondary and teacher education levels.
e. Local projects needed to implement the program in Ecuador. The cooperative program of education shall continue to be limited to relatively few projects, each of which is of special interest to the Government of Ecuador, in order that definite results may be obtained and that such results will be indicative of the cooperation existing between the Government of Ecuador and the Government of the United States in the important field of public education. The Ministry of Education considers the solution of the following problems as being particularly important : a. The training of school administrators ( school directors, school inspectors, provincial directors of education , etc. ) b. The orientation of technical and vocational schools, both urban and rural, at the elementary and secondary level.

Oct. 2, 1947 61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Nov. 14, 1947
c. Orientation of schools of teacher education. d. Orientation of preschool education.
CLAUSE III
The field staff of the Institute shall be under the direction of the Special Representative who shall be the representative of the Institute in connection with the program to be carried on in accordance with this Extension Agreement. The Special Representative and other members of the Institute field staff shall be acceptable to the Minister of Public Education.
CLAUSE IV
The special technical service created in the Ministry of Public Education in Ecuador, pursuant to the Agreement, under the name of "Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación", (hereinafter called the "Servicio") , shall act as an intermediary between the Government of Ecuador and the Institute, and shall continue to carry out the cooperative education program. The Special Representative of the Institute shall be the Director of the Servicio.

3913 Field staff.
Servicio. Director.

CLAUSE V
The cooperative education program shall continue to consist of individual projects . The kind of work and the specific projects to be undertaken in the execution of this Extension Agreement and the allocation of funds therefor shall be agreed upon in writing by the Minister and the Special Representative , and shall be carried out by the Director of the Servicio in conformity with policies prescribed jointly by the Minister and the Special Representative. The Ecuadoran educators to be sent to the United States and the terms of their scholarships or grants shall be mutually agreed upon in writing by the Minister and the Special Representative.

Projects.

CLAUSE VI
Payment of salaries The Institute shall determine and pay the salaries and other ex- and expenses of field penses payable directly to, or on account of, members of the Institute staff.
field staff in an amount not to exceed Seven Thousand One Hundred

Sixty-eight Dollars ($7,168 ) U. S. currency, which shall be in addition to the Seventy Thousand Dollars ($70,000 ) allocated for such purpose in Paragraph Five ( 5 ) of the Agreement and which Seven Thousand One Hundred Sixty-eight Dollars ( $7,168 ) shall be retained in the United States by the Institute, making a total of Seventyseven Thousand One Hundred Sixty-eight Dollars ($77,168) which has been allocated by the Foundation and the Institute for such purposes and shall also be in addition to the Thirty Thousand Dollars ($30,000) which the Foundation agreed to deposit to the account of the Servicio pursuant to the said Paragraph Five (5 ) of the Agreement, making a total aggregate amount of One Hundred Seven Thousand One Hundred Sixty-eight Dollars ( $107,168) allocated by the Foundation and the Institute for the cooperative education
program.

Deposits.

3914

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Republic shall deposit in the Banco Central del Ecuador in Quito (or in any other bank which shall be mutually agreed upon by the Minister and the Special Representative ) to the account of the Servicio the sum of Ninety-six Thousand Fifty-one Sucres ( S/.96,051) , being the equivalent of not less than Seven Thousand Dollars ( $7,000 ) U. S. currency, at the rate of exchange of 13.4 sucres per dollar. The deposit required to be made by the Republic hereby shall be made during the month of February 1948, and the said deposit shall be in addition to the Republic's regular budget for education and in addition to the total amount specified in the Agreement to be deposited by the Republic to the account of the Servicio.

CLAUSE VII

Exemption of funds

from taxes, etc.

Any of the funds introduced into Ecuador by the Institute for the

purpose of the cooperative education program shall be exempt from

taxes, service charges, investment or deposit requirements, and other

reCnocnyv. ersion of cur- currency controls, and shall be converted into sucres at a rate of exchange not less than 13.4 per dollar. Similarly, where it is necessary

to convert sucres into dollars for the financing of scholarships or

grants or other expenditures in the United States, the sucres shall be

converted into dollars at a rate of exchange of not more than 13.5 sucres per dollar.

CLAUSE VIII

Deposit of withheld funds.

Any funds heretofore withheld by the Foundation pursuant to agreement between the Minister and the Special Representative of the Foundation for the purchase of materials and supplies and other disbursements in the United States of America relating to the execu-

tion of the cooperative education program and not expended or obligated therefor shall be deposited in the Servicio bank account at any time upon the mutual agreement of the Minister and the Special Representative .
CLAUSE IX

General policies and All contracts necessary to carry out the terms of the projects procedures.
mutually agreed to as herein provided shall be made in the name of the Servicio and shall be signed by the Director of the Servicio. Personnel to be paid out of program funds deposited in Ecuador shall be selected by the Director of the Servicio, subject to the approval of the Minister. The general policies and procedures for the execu-

tion of the program and for the disbursement and accounting of funds, for the purchase, use, inventory, control and disposition of property, and any other administrative matters, shall be determined or established by mutual agreement between the Minister and the Special Representative. No disbursement from the said Servicio bank account may be made without the signed authorization of the Director of the Servicio or his delegate and of the Minister or his delegate. Checks for an amount of more than Three Thousand Sucres (S/.3,000 ) also shall bear both signatures. The books and

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Oct. 2, 1947 Nov. 14, 1947

3915

records of the Servicio relating to the said cooperative education program shall be open at all times for inspection by representatives of the Republic and of the Institute, and the Director of the Servicio shall render financial reports to the Republic and to the Institute at such intervals as may be agreed upon between the Minister and the Special Representative.

CLAUSE X

The Institute shall use its best efforts to obtain such assistance and

Additional ance.

cooperation of other agencies, both public and private, in the United

States, as may be appropriate for the execution of the said cooperative

education program. The Republic, in addition to its cash contribu-

assist-

tion as provided herein, shall ( a ) appoint specialists, in agreement with the Director of the Servicio, to collaborate with the field staff

of the Institute ; ( b ) make available office space, furnishings and such other facilities, materials, equipment and supplies as it may

conveniently provide for the said program ; and ( c) lend the general assistance thereto of the other departments of the Republic.

CLAUSE XI

Availability of The funds payable by the Institute under the Agreement or this funds.
Extension Agreement, or paid by the parties hereto into the said Servicio bank account, shall continue to be available for the said
cooperative education program during the existence of this Extension

Agreement, without regard to annual periods or fiscal years. In the event that the Institute deems that the funds or any portion
thereof which it has set aside for the payment of salaries and other expenses directly payable to, or on account of, members of the field staff, as provided in Clause VI hereof, will be more than is needed for that purpose, or for any other purpose of the Institute, the Institute will thereupon advise the Republic of the surplus which it can accordingly make available for projects and such additional sum shall be paid into the Servicio bank account or be otherwise disposed of pursuant to this Agreement.
The Minister and the Special Representative of the Institute shall

Surplus funds. Ante, p. 3913.

determine by mutual agreement the disposition of any unobligated funds and of any other personal property remaining in the control of the Servicio upon the termination of this Extension Agreement.

CLAUSE XII
Exemption of emAll employees of the Institute who are citizens of the United States ployees from taxation. of America and are engaged in carrying out the objectives of the cooperative education program shall be exempt from all income taxes and social security taxes with respect to income on which they are obligated to pay income or social security taxes to the Government of the United States of America and from property taxes on personal
property intended for their own use. The employees who are members of the field staff of the Institute and members of their families

3916

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

who reside with them in Ecuador shall also be exempt from payment of customs and import duties on their personal effects and equipment and supplies for their own use and from investment and deposit requirements and from costs of foreign exchange conversions on funds brought into Ecuador for their normal living expenses.

CLAUSE XIII

Rights and privileges.

All rights and privileges which are enjoyed by governmental and

official divisions or agencies of the Republic shall accrue to the Servicio.

Such rights and privileges shall include, for example, free postal, telegraph, and telephone service, special government rates from trans-

portation companies and also freedom and immunity from excise, stamp, property, income and all other taxes, as well as from consular

charges and customs duties upon imports for the use of the Servicio

in the cooperative education program. The Institute shall enjoy the same rights and exemptions with respect to its acts and property relat-

ing to the cooperative education program.

CLAUSE XIV

Ownership ofequipment.

All materials, equipment, and supplies purchased with funds of the Servicio shall become and remain the property of the Republic and shall be devoted to the program .

CLAUSE XV
Delegation ofpower, Any rights, powers, or duties conferred by this Extension Agreeetc.
ment upon either the Minister, the Special Representative, or the Director of the Servicio, may be delegated by the recipient thereof to representatives in writing, provided that such representatives are satisfactory to the other parties. Regardless of the naming of said representatives, the Minister and the Special Representative shall have the right to refer any matter directly to one another for discussion and decision.

Legislation. Effective date.

CLAUSE XVI
The Executive Power of the Republic will take the necessary steps to obtain the legislation, decrees, orders or resolutions necessary to carry out the terms of this Extension Agreement.
CLAUSE XVII
This Extension Agreement supersedes the Agreement in all respects whatsoever and shall become effective as soon as diplomatic notes confirming and accepting this Extension Agreement have been exchanged between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of Ecuador and the Embassy of the United States of America to Ecuador, or upon the date of execution hereof in the event that diplomatic notes approving the extension of the cooperative education program as herein provided have heretofore been exchanged.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Extension Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives,

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Oct. 2, 1947 Nov. 14, 1947
in duplicate, in the English and Spanish languages, at Quito, Ecuador, this 11 Nov. 1947 day of 1947.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR
Dr. Jose Liguel Garcia Moreno Minister of Public Education

FOR THE INSTITUE OF INTER AMERICAN APPAIRS
Padat Pedro Osuna
Special Representative Education Division

3917

95347°-50- PT. IV- -37

3918

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 Stat.
CONVENIO DE PRORROGA
La República del Ecuador (que en adelante se llamará la "República") , representada por el Ministro de Educación Pública (que en adelante se llamará el "Ministro") , y The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs ( que en adelante se llamará el "Instituto " ) , una Corporación y una Agencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, sucesor de la Inter- American Educational Foundation , Inc. , (que en adelante se llamará la "Fundación ") , por intermedio de su Representante Especial de la División de Educación, Dr. Pedro Osuna (que en adelante se llamará el "Representante Especial" ) , han acordado prorrogar y modificar, en la manera expuesta a continuación, el Convenio celebrado por la República y la Fundación el día 22 de Enero de 1945 (que en adelante se llamará el "Convenio" ) , estableciendo un programa cooperativo de educación en el Ecuador.
CLAUSULA I
Por medio del presente convenio el aludido programa cooperativo de educación queda prorrogado, por un período adicional de aproximadamente seis meses, que se iniciará el vigésimo segundo día del mes de Enero de 1948 y que terminará el trigésimo día del mes de Junio de 1948.
CLAUSULA II
El mencionado programa cooperativo de educación habrá de continuar incluyendo :
a. Suministro, por parte del Instituto, de un pequeño cuerpo de especialistas en educación que trabajen en el Ecuador en la realización del programa educacional cooperativo ;
b. Subvenciones, para que educadores ecuatorianos puedan viajar a los Estados Unidos de América , con el objeto de que adquieran entrenamiento especializado, para dictar conferencias, enseñar e intercambiar ideas y experiencias con los educadores estadounidenses ;
c. La investigación y estudio de las necesidades locales en el Ecuador y de los recursos con que cuenta para llevar a cabo proyectos educacionales en el campo de la enseñanza primaria y secundaria , y en el del perfeccionamiento del profesorado ;
d. Desarrollo , adaptación e intercambio de materiales de enseñanza apropiados para los maestros en la enseñanza primaria , y secundaria y en la preparación del profesorado ;
e. Proyectos locales necesarios para la realización del programa en el Ecuador.
El programa cooperativo educacional habrá de continuar siendo limitado a pocos proyectos, cada uno de los cuales será de interés especial para el Gobierno del Ecuador , a fin de poder lograr resultados definitivos y de que tales resultados demuestren la cooperación existente entre el Gobierno del Ecuador y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, en el importante campo de la Educación Pública.

Oct. 2, 1947 61 STAT. ] ECUADOR- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Nov. 14, 1947
El Ministerio de Educación considera especialmente importante la solución de los siguientes problemas :
a. La capacitación de administradores escolares (directores de escuelas, inspectores escolares, directores provinciales de educación, etc. ) ;
b. La orientación de las escuelas técnicas y profesionales de tipo secundario y primario, urbanas y rurales ;
c. La orientación de los Institutos Normales ; d. La orientación de la educación pre-escolar.
CLAUSULA III
El cuerpo de especialistas del "Instituto" (Field Staff) estará bajo la dirección del Representante Especial, quién será el Representante del "Instituto" en relación con el programa a llevarse a cabo de conformidad con este Convenio de Prórroga. El Representante Especial y los demás miembros del Cuerpo de especialistas del "Instituto" deberán ser aprobados por el Ministro de Educación Pública, para el ejercicio de sus funciones.
CLAUSULA IV
El servicio técnico especial, establecido en el Ministerio de Educación Pública del Ecuador, de conformidad con el "Convenio", bajo el nombre de "Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación", (que en adelante se llamará el "Servicio" ) , actuará como intermediario entre el Gobierno del Ecuador y el Instituto, y continuará llevando a cabo el programa cooperativo de educación. El Representante Especial del Instituto actuará como Director del "Servicio".
CLAUSULA V
El programa cooperativo educacional seguirá comprendiendo proyectos individuales. La clase de actividades, los proyectos específicos a efectuarse en la ejecución de este Convenio de Prórroga, y la asignación de fondos para los mismos, serán acordados, por escrito, entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial, y serán ejecutados por el Director del Servicio de conformidad con las normas establecidas conjuntamente por el Ministro y el Representante Especial. Los educadores ecuatorianos a enviarse a los Estados Unidos, y las condiciones de sus becas o subvenciones, serán mutuamente acordados, por escrito, entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial.
CLAUSULA VI
El "Instituto " determinará y pagará, ya sea directamente o acreditándolos a las cuentas personales de los miembros del Cuerpo de especialistas del Instituto, los sueldos y otros gastos que les correspondiera, en una suma que no excederá de siete mil ciento sesenta y ocho dólares U. S. ( $ 7,168 ) , además de los setenta mil dólares ($70,000) , asignados para tal propósito, en el párrafo ( 5º ) quinto del "Convenio". Estos siete mil ciento sesenta y ocho dólares ( $7.168) serán retenidos en los Estados Unidos, por el "Instituto", con los que se elevarán a setenta y siete mil ciento sesenta y ocho dólares

3919

3920

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
($77.168) , los fondos asignados por la "Fundación" y el "Instituto" para estos propósitos, aparte, también, de los treinta mil dólares ($30.000) que la "Fundación" acordó depositar en la cuenta del "Servicio", de conformidad con el mencionado párrafo quinto ( 5º ) del "Convenio", subiendo de esta manera a la cantidad de ciento siete mil ciento sesenta y ocho dólares ( $ 107.168 ) , la contribución total de la "Fundación" y del " Instituto", para el programa cooperativo educacional.
La República del Ecuador depositará en el Banco Central del Ecuador en Quito (o en cualquier otro banco que sea mutuamente acordado entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial) , en la cuenta del Servicio, la suma de noventa y seis mil cincuenta y un sucres ( S/.96.051 ) , o sea el equivalente de no menos de siete mil dólares ($7.000) U.S. , al tipo de cambio de 13.4 sucres por dólar. El deposito requerido de parte de la República se hará durante el mes de Febrero de 1948, y constituirá una adición al presupuesto regular de la República para fines de educación y aparte de la cantidad total, especificada en el Convenio y a ser depositada por la República , en la cuenta del Servicio.
CLAUSULA VII
Todos los fondos que sean introducidos al Ecuador por el Instituto para fines del programa educacional cooperativo, deberán estar excentos de impuestos, recargos por servicio, requerimientos de inversión o depósito y otros controles de cambio, y serán convertidos en sucres a un tipo de cambio de no menos de 13.4 sucres por dólar. Asimismo, y cuando sea necesario convertir sucres a dólares para el financiamiento de becas y subvenciones, y otros gastos en los Estados Unidos, los sucres serán convertidos a dólares a un tipo de cambio de no más de 13.5 sucres por dólar.
CLAUSULA VIII
Los fondos hasta aquí retenidos por la Fundación, de conformidad con lo convenido entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación, para la compra de materiales y equipos, y otros desembol sos en los Estados Unidos de América, relacionados con la ejecución del programa cooperativo educacional, y que no hubieren sido gastados u obligados en estos objetos , se depositarán en la cuenta bancaria del Servicio en cualquier momento, cuando el Ministro y el Representante Especial así lo convengan.
CLAUSULA IX
Todos los contratos necesarios para llevar a cabo los términos de los proyectos mutuamente acordados de conformidad con este acuerdo, serán celebrados a nombre del Servicio y serán firmados por el Director del Servicio. El personal que fuere remunerado con fondos del programa depositados en el Ecuador, será seleccionado por el Director del Servicio, y estará sujeto a la aprobación del Ministro. Las normas generales y procedimientos para la ejecución del programa y para el desembolso y contabilidad de los fondos, para la compra, uso, inven-

Oct. 2, 1947 61 STAT. ] ECUADOR- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Nov. 14, 1947
tario , control y disposición de bienes y cualesquier otros asuntos administrativos , serán determinados o establecidos por mutuo acuerdo entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial. No se hará ningún desembolso de la mencionada cuenta bancaria del Servicio, sin la autorización firmada por el Director del Servicio o de su delegado, y del Ministro o de su delegado. Los cheques que pasen de tres mil sucres ( S/.3.000) también deberán llevar ambas firmas. Los libros y datos del Servicio relacionados con el programa cooperativo de educación estarán en todo tiempo disponibles para su inspección por parte de representantes de la República y del Instituto, y el Director del Servicio rendirá informes financieros a la República y al Instituto, con los intervalos que sean acordados entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial.
CLAUSULA X
El Instituto hará lo posible para conseguir, en los Estados Unidos, la ayuda y cooperación de otras entidades, tanto públicas como privadas, que sean apropiadas para la ejecución del aludido programa cooperativo de educación. La República, además de su contribución en efectivo aquí estipulada , ( a ) nombrará de acuerdo con el Director del Servicio, especialistas para que colaboren con el Cuerpo de especialistas del Instituto ; ( b) suministrará locales para oficinas, así como muebles o cualesquiera otras facilidades semejantes, materiales, equipos y suministros que pueda convenientemente aportar para el mencionado programa ; ( c ) conseguirá la ayuda general de las demás entidades oficiales de la República.
CLAUSULA XI
Los fondos a pagarse por el Instituto según el Convenio o según este Convenio de Prórroga, o los pagados ya por las partes suscriptoras del presente, y depositados en la cuenta bancaria del Servicio, seguirán siendo disponibles para dicho programa cooperativo de educación, durante la vigencia de este Convenio de Prórroga, sin tomar en cuenta para este propósito , períodos anuales o años fiscales.
En el caso de que el Instituto estime que los fondos, segregados para sueldos y otros gastos a pagarse directamente a los miembros del Cuerpo de especialistas, o a depositarse en sus respectivas cuentas, de conformidad con la claúsula VI del presente convenio, se hallan en exceso de los necesarios para este fin o para cualquier otro propósito del Instituto, informará éste a la República del sobrante que, por consiguiente, podrá invertirse en la ejecución de los proyectos. Tal cantidad adicional se depositará en la cuenta bancaria del Servicio, o se dispondrá de ella de otra manera , de conformidad con este Convenio.
El Ministro y el Representante Especial del Instituto determinarán, por mutuo acuerdo, la disposición de cualesquiera fondos no comprometidos y de cualesquiera otros bienes que queden bajo el control del Servicio, al vencimiento de este Convenio de Prórroga.
CLAUSULA XII
Todos los empleados del Instituto que sean ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos de América y contratados para llevar a cabo los fines del

3921

3922

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
programa cooperativo de educación , estarán excentos del pago de impuestos a la renta e impuestos de seguro social, referentes a rentas sobre las cuales se hallan en el caso de pagar impuestos a la renta o de seguro social al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América , como también se hallarán excentos del pago de impuestos sobre propiedades o bienes personales destinados a su propio uso. Los empleados que sean miembros del Cuerpo de especialistas del Instituto, asi como los miembros de sus familias que con éllos residan en el Ecuador, estarán excentos del pago de impuestos aduaneros y derechos consulares en la importación de sus efectos personales y de equipos y suministros para su propio uso, y se hallarán asímismo exceptuados de requisitos de inversión y requerimientos de depósito, y de pagos de impuestos, tasas, recargos , etc. etc. , y en el canje o cambio de moneda extranjera traída por ellos al Ecuador para los gastos normales de vida.
CLAUSULA XIII
El Servicio gozará de todos los derechos y excenciones conferidos a departamentos o entidades gubernamentales y oficiales de la República. Tales derechos y excenciones incluirán, por ejemplo , los de franquicia postal , telegráfica y telefónica ; tarifas gubernamentales especiales para compañías de transportes, y comprenderán también excenciones e inmunidades de impuestos sobre consumos, timbres, bienes, renta y otros, así como de derechos consulares e impuestos aduaneros sobre importaciones destinadas para el uso del Servicio en el programa cooperativo de educación. El Instituto gozará de los mismos derechos y excensiones que el Servicio , con respecto a sus actos y propiedades relacionados con el programa cooperativo de educación.
CLAUSULA XIV
Todo material, equipo y suministros comprados con fondos del Servicio, pasarán a ser de propiedad de la República , y serán dedicados al programa.
CLAUSULA XV
Cualquier derecho , facultad o deber, conferidos por este convenio de Prórroga al Ministro , al Representante Especial o al Director del Servicio, podrán ser delegados por escrito, por cada uno de estos funcionarios, en favor de distintas personas o representantes, siempre y cuando dichos representantes sean aceptables a las otras partes. No obstante la existencia de tales delegaciones, el Ministro y el Representante Especial podrán tratar cualquier asunto directamente, entre éllos, y resolverlo.
CLAUSULA XVI
El Poder Ejecutivo de la República dará los pasos necesarios para que se expidan la legislación , los decretos , órdenes y resoluciones que sean necesarios para el cumplimiento de las estipulaciones de este Convenio de Prórroga.

Oct. 2 , 1947 61 STAT. ] ECUADOR- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Nov. 14, 1947
CLAUSULA XVII
Este Convenio de Prórroga reemplaza al Convenio en todos sus aspectos, y entrará en vigencia con el cambio de notas diplomáticas entre el Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores del Gobierno del Ecuador , y la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América en el Ecuador, que confirmen y acepten el presente Convenio de Prórroga, o en la fecha de la ejecución del mismo, en el caso de que las referidas notas diplomáticas aprobando la prórroga del programa cooperativo de educación, de acuerdo con las estipulaciones contenidas en el presente convenio, hayan sido ya cruzadas.
EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes suscriptoras del presente han formulado este Convenio de Prórroga para que sea ejecutado por sus representantes debidamente autorizados, en duplicado, en los idiomas Inglés y Español, en Quito, Ecuador, a 11 Nov. 1947

POR 17. GOBIERNO DEL ECUADOR
Jose Miguel Garcia Loreno Ministro de Educación Pública

POR TO INSTITUTE OF INTERAMRICAN ATAIRS
Pedro suna Reprosentante Espocial
División le Educación .

3923

3924

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

May 28, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1750]

Agreement and exchanges of notes between the United States of America and the Netherlands respecting a mutual aid settlement; signed at Washington May 28, 1947 , entered into force May 28, 1947. Agreement between the United States of America and the Netherlands Indies; signed at Washington May 28 , 1947, entered into force May 28, 1947. And memorandum of arrangement between the United States ofAmerica, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the Netherlands; signed at Washington May 28, 1947 , entered into force May 28, 1947.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS REGARDING SETTLEMENT FOR LEND -LEASE , RECIPROCAL AID, SURPLUS PROPERTY, MILITARY RELIEF, AND CLAIMS

56 Stat. 1556.

The Government of the United States of America ( hereinafter referred to as the United States Government) and the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands ( hereinafter referred to as the Netherlands Government) , comprising the Kingdom in Europe, the Netherlands Indies and the Territories of Surinam and Curaçao, have reached an understanding regarding a settlement for lend- lease and reciprocal aid, for certain surplus property, for the Netherlands Government's obligation to the United States Government for civilian supplies furnished as military relief in the Netherlands and in the Netherlands Indies, and for other financial claims of each Government against the other arising out of the conduct of the war. This settlement is complete and final, and both Governments agree that, except as herein specifically provided , no further benefits will be sought by either Government as consideration for the foregoing. In arriving at this understanding, both Governments have recognized the benefits accruing to each from their contributions to the defeat of their common enemies, and have adhered to and hereby reaffirm their adherence to the principles expressed in Article VII of the Preliminary Agreement on Principles Applying to Mutual Aid in the Prosecution of the War Against Aggression, signed on July 8, 1942.
1. Amount Due

As used in this Agreement the "total principal amount" due from the Netherlands Government to the United States Government is the sum of:
A. $67,500,000, which is agreed by the two Governments to be the net amount due from the Netherlands Government to the United States Government with respect to lend -lease , reciprocal aid, civilian supplies furnished as military relief in the Netherlands ( Plan A) and in the Netherlands Indies, certain aircraft heretofore sold by

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1947

3925

the United States Government to the Netherlands Government, certain claims between the two Governments settled by this Agreement, and guilders in the accounts of finance officers of the United States armed forces, and
B. The amount due to the United States Government from the Netherlands Government under the $30,000,000 line of credit ( referred to in paragraph 5 of this Agreement ) for the purchase of surplus property.

Post, p. 3929.

The terms of payment of the total principal amount are set forth in paragraph 6 of this Agreement.

2. Military Relief and Related Operations

In view of the benefits accruing to the two Governments from their contributions to the common war effort and in view of the payment specified in sub-paragraph 1A of this Agreement and of the other provisions of this Agreement :
A. The obligation of the Netherlands Government for the United States Government's share of the combined bills for civilian supplies furnished as military relief in the Netherlands ( Plan A ) is considered settled. The Netherlands Government recognizes that the settlement hereby made with the United States Government in no way impairs the obligation of the Netherlands Government to the United Kingdom and Canadian Governments for their shares of the combined claim for Plan A.
B. The United States Government's share of guilder proceeds from the sale of Allied publications distributed in the Netherlands in connection with military operations reverts to the Netherlands Government.
3. Intergovernmental Claims

A. The following financial claims between the two Governments will be settled and paid in dollars in accordance with procedures already established :
( 1 ) Claims of the United States Government for the cost of lend-lease supplies and services transferred to the Netherlands Government by the United States Government on cash reimbursement terms not subsequently converted to other terms, and claims of the Netherlands Government for the excess of the amounts deposited by it with the United States Government under cash reimbursement lend-lease requisitions (including requisitions subsequently converted wholly or partly to other terms ) over the cost of supplies and services transferred thereunder to the Netherlands Government on cash reimbursement terms not subsequently converted to other terms.
(2) Balance owing to the Netherlands Government under the portion of the agreement described in the Memorandum signed on May 30 , 1942 by representatives of the United States Department of State and Office of Lend -Lease Administration

3926

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

59 Stat. 1627.
Cost ofsupplies and services transferred to Netherlands Government.

whereby the United States Government took over the war material in the United States procured by, or at that time under contracts in the United States let by, the Netherlands Government.
(3) Claims covered by the " Memorandum Concerning Disposition of and Payment for Cargoes Carried on Twelve Dutch Ships Diverted to Australia ", dated December 20, 1944 , and claims covered by the "Memorandum Concerning Disposition of and Payment for Certain Aircraft and Gun Parts Shipped to Australia by Netherlands Purchasing Commission", dated December 20, 1944.
(4) Claims of either Government against the other arising under the terms of the Netherlands-American Charter Plan dated March 6, 1942.
(5 ) Claims of either Government against the other arising under the "bareboat out-time charter back" chartering arrangements, including claims of the Netherlands Government against the United States Government as war or marine risk insurer or assumer by reason of ( a ) any loss or damage to the chartered vessel or (b) any claims against the chartered vessel other than (i) those waived or assumed under this Agreement, ( ii ) those waived or assumed by a third government or UNRRA under any present or future agreement with the United States Government, and (iii ) those subject to the practice of the United States Government regarding interdepartmental waiver of claims.
(6) The claim of the Netherlands Government for repayment of the net balance of guilders advanced by it to the United States War Shipping Administration .
(7) The claim of the Netherlands Government for the repayment of the payment previously made to the United States Government under the "Agreement between the United States of America and the Kingdom of the Netherlands under Section 3 (c ) of the Lend-Lease Act", signed on April 30, 1945.
B. To avoid the necessity of making adjustments hereafter in certain accounts and to facilitate the determination of certain amounts payable under sub-paragraph 3A of this Agreement, the two Governments agree upon $17,820,000 as the cost of supplies and services transferred to the Netherlands Government through the agency of the United States War and Navy Departments, on cash reimbursement terms not subsequently converted to straight lendlease terms, under lend-lease requisitions which, when filed by the Netherlands Government, called for direct cash reimbursement, but not including lend- lease requisitions filed directly with the United States Navy Department. This sum of $17,820,000, heretofore paid by the Netherlands Government, includes an allowance for charges not yet reported and is not subject to adjustment. Such allowance will be disregarded in determining claims under subparagraph 3A ( 3 ) of this Agreement.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1947

3927

C. The two Governments have agreed upon arrangements and procedures with respect to payment for articles and services procured in the Kingdom of the Netherlands for the United States armed forces and certain aircraft procured by the United States armed forces in the United States from the Netherlands Government and with respect to the return to the Netherlands Government of guilders held by the United States armed forces.
D. The claims between the two Governments listed in Appendix 1 hereto are among those settled by this Agreement and appropriate allowances have been made therefor in computing the net amount due from the Netherlands Government to the United States Government under sub-paragraph 1A of this Agreement.
E. The following arrangements are agreed on with respect to the time during which the large U. S. 7 (c ) ships and the small U. S. 7 (c) ships ( as defined in Appendix 1 hereto) , as the case may be, were severally operated by the Netherlands Government for the United States Government during the 7 (c ) period (as defined in Appendix 1 hereto) :
(1 ) The United States Government will bear the cost of all services and supplies, not hitherto paid for by the Netherlands Government, furnished by the United States Government to the Netherlands Government for the large U. S. 7 ( c) ships and the small U. S. 7 ( c) ships during such time.
(2) The Netherlands Government will retain all earnings, if any, arising from the commercial carriage of passengers and cargo on the large U. S. 7 (c ) ships and the small U. S. 7 (c) ships during such time.
(3 ) The Netherlands Government will process all claims against the United States Government, or respecting which the ultimate liability is that of the United States Government, arising from the commercial carriage of passengers and cargo on the large U. S. 7 ( c ) ships and the small U. S. 7 ( c ) ships during such time, and will discharge the liability of the United States Government with respect thereto, except to the extent that third Governments have already undertaken to do so without being reimbursed in cash.
F. As further specified in Appendix 2 hereto, each Government waives all its claims against the other which arose out of requisitioning for use in the war program of property of the claimant Government and, except as provided in sub-paragraph 3A (5 ) of this Agreement, all its claims against the other, and all its claims respecting which the ultimate liability is that of the other, which arose out of maritime incidents occurring on or after May 10, 1940 and prior to July 1 , 1946.
G. Each Government waives all other financial claims against the other Government not otherwise dealt with in this Agreement which
(a) have arisen or may hereafter arise out of lend-lease or reciprocal aid, or

Post, p. 3934. Ships.
Waiver ofclaims. Post, p. 3937.

3928

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
(b) otherwise arose out of incidents occurring on or after May 10, 1940 and prior to July 1, 1946 connected with or incidental to the conduct of the war,
except
( 1 ) claims arising out of established arrangements where liability has heretofore been acknowledged and the method of computation agreed ;
(2) claims arising out of retransfers, consented to by the United States Government after December 31 , 1946, of lendlease articles by a third government to the Netherlands Government ; and
(3) claims presented in accordance with the practice whereby one government espouses a claim of one of its nationals and submits it through diplomatic channels to another government.
4. Private Claims
A. The Netherlands Government will process the claims described in the following sub-paragraphs ( 1 ) to (4) and will discharge the liability with respect thereto of the United States Government and of the individuals, firms and corporations against whom such claims are asserted as there described, except to the extent that third governments have already undertaken to do so without being reimbursed in cash, namely :
( 1) Claims against the United States Government, or respecting which the ultimate liability is that of the United States Government, arising from maritime incidents ( including those specified in Appendix 2 hereto ) occurring on or after May 10, 1940 and prior to July 1, 1946, asserted or about to be asserted in courts of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, or asserted anywhere by individuals, firms and corporations, subjects of the Kingdom of the Netherlands at the time of the event giving rise to the claim, but not including claims of Netherlands subjects based upon service as seamen. In addition, as part of the general settlement, the Netherlands Government, without giving rise to any financial obligation on the part of the United States Government, will, at the request of the United States Government, take such steps as may be necessary, including the assumption of financial responsibility, to release vessels and cargoes belonging to the United States Government from legal actions brought to enforce any such claims.
(2 ) Claims of individuals, firms and corporations, domiciled in territory of the Kingdom of the Netherlands at any time between May 10, 1940, and September 2, 1945 ( except individuals who are exclusively United States nationals) against the United States Government, its contractors or subcontractors, for royalties under contracts for the use of inventions , patented or unpatented, or for infringement of patent

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1947

3929

rights, in connection with war production carried on or contracted for prior to September 2, 1945 by the United States Government, its contractors or sub-contractors.
(3) Claims, whether contractual or non-contractual, against the United States Government and against members of its armed forces and civilian personnel attached thereto arising out of acts or omissions in territory of the Kingdom of the Netherlands of members of such armed forces or such civilian personnel, both line-of- duty and non-line-of-duty, occurring on or after May 10, 1940 and prior to September 2, 1945 in the case of contracts, and occurring on or after May 10, 1940 and prior to July 1, 1946 in the case of other acts or omissions.
(4 ) Claims of individuals, firms and corporations, subjects of the Kingdom of the Netherlands at the time of the event giving rise to the claim, against the United States Government arising out of the requisitioning ( as specified in Appendix 2 hereto) for use in the war program of property located in the United States in which the claimant asserts an interest. B. An appropriate allowance for the undertaking of the Netherlands Government in sub-paragraph 4A of this Agreement has been made in computing the net amount of $67,500,000 due from the Netherlands Government to the United States Government under sub-paragraph 1A of this Agreement.
5. Surplus Property

Post, p. 3937. Ante, p. 3924.

A. The two Governments agree that their rights and obligations in connection with the line of credit for the purchase of surplus property heretofore granted by the United States Government in the amount of $30,000,000 ( originally $20,000,000 ) shall be as stated in this Agreement ; and the letters dated May 14, 1946 and December 9, 1946, from the United States Central Field Commissioner for Europe, Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner, to the Netherlands Treasurer General, accepted by the Netherlands Government, establishing the line of credit, and subsequent communications relating thereto, are superseded by this Agreement. Like provision regarding the rights and obligations under the line of credit for the purchase of surplus property heretofore granted by the United States Government to the Netherlands Indies Government in the amount of $ 100,000,000 is made in a separate agreement signed concurrently herewith by the United States Government and the Netherlands Indies Government.
B. The terms of payment of the amount due under the $30,000,000 line of credit shall be as stated in paragraph 6 of this Agreement. This change from the original terms of payment, and the like change regarding the $100,000,000 line of credit made in the separate agreement signed concurrently herewith by the United States Government and the Netherlands Indies Government, have been consented to by the United States Government as part of the general settlement herein made.

3930 Ante, p. 3925.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
C. The $30,000,000 line of credit is for use in purchasing prior to January 1 , 1948 United States surplus property, wherever situated, made available by the Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner.
D. Charges heretofore made against the $30,000,000 line of credit shall continue to be charges against it as from the respective dates of the charges, but, with respect to the accrual of interest, shall be subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph 6C of this Agreement. The bulk sales of surplus property in the Territories of Curaçao and Surinam shall be charges against the $ 30,000,000 line of credit.
E. Procedural arrangements heretofore made in connection with the $30,000,000 line of credit shall continue in force until changed .
6. Terms of Payment
A. The Netherlands Government undertakes that, as and when the amounts payable by the United States Government under subparagraph 3A of this Agreement are paid, it will pay equivalent amounts in dollars to the United States Government up to a total of $19,500,000, in partial payment of the total principal amount due from it to the United States Government.
B. The remainder of the total principal amount due from the Netherlands Government to the United States Government will be paid by the Netherlands Government to the United States Government in dollars in thirty annual instalments, which shall become payable on July 1 of each year beginning July 1, 1951. The first instalment shall be equal to one-thirtieth of the unpaid portion as of July 1 , 1951 of the total principal amount. Each subsequent instalment shall be equal to so much of the unpaid portion ( as of the date of the instalment ) of the total principal amount as has not previously become payable, divided by the number of instalments that have not previously become payable.
C. Interest will be paid to the United States Government by the Netherlands Government in dollars at the fixed rate of two percent per annum on $50,000,000 (which is agreed to be the net sum of such of the charges constituting the total principal amount as are attributable to the period before July 1 , 1946 ) for the period from July 1 , 1946 through June 30, 1947, and, accruing from July 1, 1947, on the unpaid remainder of the total principal amount. With respect, however, to charges made under the $30,000,000 line of credit, interest shall accrue from the first day of July next following the date on which each charge is made. With respect to the amount of any reduction in the total principal amount under the terms of sub-paragraph 6D and paragraph 7 of this Agreement interest for the period from the preceding July 1 shall be charged only to the date of such reduction. Interest shall be payable annually on July 1 of each year beginning July 1, 1947.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1947

3931

D. The Netherlands Government may at any time or times
make payments to the United States Government under this Agreement of amounts not then payable or larger than are then payable. Any such payments will be credited first to past due interest , if any, and then to past due instalments, if any, and then to the unpaid remainder of the total principal amount.
E. If by agreement of both Governments it is determined Postponement of payment.
that because of extraordinary and adverse economic conditions arising during the course of payment, any of the periodic payments of interest, of principal, of interest and principal, or of any part thereof would not be to the common advantage of both Governments, payment may be postponed on such terms and conditions as
may be agreed.

7. Provision of Netherlands Currency and of Property

A. The Netherlands Government, when requested by the United States Government, will make available at any time or times, by payment to the United States Government or to such persons or organizations as the United States Government may designate, Netherlands currency in any amount (computed as provided in sub-paragraph 7E of this Agreement) not in excess of the then unpaid portion of the total principal amount plus past due interest, for :

( 1 ) The payment of any or all of the ordinary governmental expenditures in the Kingdom of the Netherlands ( other than the Netherlands Indies) of the United States Government or any department or agency thereof ;
(2) The acquisition of real property, improvements thereon or furnishings therefor, agreed upon by the two Governments ; and
( 3) The payment of the cost of educational programs agreed upon by the two Governments.

B. In case the United States Government wishes to acquire any property (located in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, other than the Netherlands Indies) , real or personal, tangible or intangible (other than for export except by mutual agreement ) , or to improve or furnish any property so located in which it has an interest, the Netherlands Government will at any time or times , as requested by the United States Government , enter into negotiations, and use its best efforts consistent with its public policy, to reach an agreement with the United States Government whereby there will be delivered to the United States Government the properties, improvements or furnishings which the United States Government desires or which the representatives of the United States Government have selected. Representatives of the United States Government may at their discretion conduct discussions directly with owners of property or with contractors for improvements or furnishings as to fair terms and prices prior to the delivery of

3932

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
such property or improvements or furnishings to the United States Government.
C. The United States Government declares that it is now its intention to request that Netherlands currency be made available for agreed educational programs under sub-paragraph 7A of this Agreement to the value of $5,000,000 and that it is now its intention to request that Netherlands currency be made available for, or that there be delivered , real property, improvements and furnishings, or both, under sub- paragraphs 7A and 7B of this Agreement to the value of $8,700,000. This statement of intention does not prevent the United States Government from later proposing different amounts from these in these connections . The foregoing amounts are inclusive of amounts heretofore requested under corresponding arrangements hitherto existing under the $30,000,000 line of credit.
D. The dollar equivalent ( computed in accordance with subparagraph 7E of this Agreement ) of any Netherlands currency made available and of the Netherlands currency value of any properties, improvements and furnishings delivered under this paragraph 7 or under corresponding arrangements hitherto existing under the $30,000,000 line of credit shall be credited first to interest, if any, and then to instalments, if any, past due to the United States Government under this Agreement and then to the unpaid remainder of the total principal amount due under this Agreement.
E. Any Netherlands currency made available and the Netherlands currency value of any properties, improvements and furnishings delivered under this paragraph 7 or under corresponding arrangements hitherto existing under the $30,000,000 line of credit will be valued at the par value between such currency and dollars established in conformity with procedures of the International Monetary Fund, or, if no such par value exists, at the rate most favorable to the United States Government used by the Netherlands Government in any official transaction at the time of the request by the United States Government that such currency be made available or that such properties, improvements or furnishings be delivered.
8. Silver
Nothing in this Agreement affects the obligation of the Netherlands Government in connection with silver transferred to it by the United States Government under lend -lease.
9. Transfer of Title
A. Except as provided in sub- paragraphs 9B and 9C of this Agreement, the United States Government and the Netherlands Government receive full title, without qualification as to disposition or use, to all articles now held by them respectively which were supplied under lend-lease or reciprocal aid, but including retransferred lend - lease articles only to the extent that consent to the

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1947

3933

retransfer was given by the United States Government before January 1 , 1947.
B. Each Government reserves the right of recapture of any arms, ammunition and implements of war ( as defined in Appendix 2 hereto ) which were supplied under lend-lease or reciprocal aid and are held by the other Government on the date on which notice requesting return is communicated to the other Government ( excepting, however, those supplied under lend-lease on cash reimbursement terms not subsequently converted to straight lend -lease terms) ; but each Government has indicated that it does not intend to exer-
cise generally its right of recapture of such articles. Disposals of such articles in or for use in third countries will be made only with the consent of the supplying Government and with payment to the supplying Government of any proceeds of such disposals. Each
Government agrees that all such articles held by it will be used only for purposes compatible with the principles of international security and welfare set forth in the Charter of the United Nations.
C. To the extent required by United States law, naval and merchant vessels which were made available to the Netherlands Government under lend-lease will be returned to the United States Government.

Post, p. 3937. 59 Stat. 1031 .

10. Miscellaneous Provisions

A. References in this Agreement to articles supplied under lend -lease, and to lend- lease transfers, include lend- lease articles transferred by the United States Government to a third government and retransferred by the third government to the Netherlands Government.
B. To the extent that the provisions of this Agreement are inconsistent with those contained in any previous agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. Nothing in this Agreement affects the obligation of the Netherlands Government under Article IV of the Preliminary Agreement of July 8, 1942 , relating to patents.
D. The two Governments agree to conclude such specific agree-
ments as may be necessary to implement this general understanding. E. This Agreement will be effective upon signature.
DONE at Washington , in duplicate, this twenty-eighth day of May, 1947.

56 Stat. 1555. Effective date.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : G C MARSHALL
Secretary of State of the United States of America

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS : A. LOUDON
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Kingdom of the Netherlands
95347-50- PT. IV- -38

3934

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

APPENDIX 1

CERTAIN CLAIMS BETWEEN THE TWO GOVERNMENTS SETTLED BY THIS AGREEMENT

Ante, p. 3927. Ante, p. 3924.

As stated in sub-paragraph 3D of this Agreement, the claims between the two Governments listed in this Appendix are among those
settled by this Agreement and appropriate allowances have been made therefor in computing the net amount due from the Netherlands Government to the United States Government under sub-paragraph 1A of this Agreement.

U. S. 7 (c) ships. Post, p. 3937.

I. CLAIMS OF THE NETHERLANDS GOVERNMENT
As used in this Agreement the term " large U. S. 7 (c) ships" means the ships listed in Schedule 1 hereto attached, and the term " small U. S. 7 ( c) ships" means the ships listed in Schedule 2 hereto attached. All these ships were originally among those chartered by the British Minister of War Transport from the Netherlands Government pursuant to the "Memorandum of Arrangement Regarding Netherland East Indies Shipping. 5th June 1942. " and allocated to the United States Government. They were the ships later removed from that arrangement, with the concurrence of the United Kingdom Government, by an exchange of notes between the Netherlands Embassy at Washington and the United States Department of State dated June 6, 1945 and July 31 , 1945, and they were severally operated by the Netherlands Government for the United States Government in

conformity with that exchange of notes for the whole of the 7 ( c)

period ( as defined below) or from the beginning of the 7 ( c ) period

until they were allocated during the 7 ( c ) period to the United King-

dom Government. The designation "7 ( c ) " derives from the application to these ships of paragraph 7 ( c) (second sentence ) of the

Agreement on Principles Having Reference to the Co-ordinated Con-

"7 (c) period."

trol of Merchant Shipping, signed in London on August 5 , 1944. The term "7 (c) period" means, as used in this Agreement in respect

of the large U. S. 7 ( c) ships and the small U. S. 7 ( c ) ships , the period

from midnight May 23, 1945 until the date of redelivery in each case

"June 5 Memorandum ."

to the Netherlands Government, or until March 2 , 1946, whichever was the earlier.
As used in this Agreement the term "June 5 Memorandum" means the above mentioned Memorandum of June 5 , 1942.

A. The following claims of the Netherlands Government against the United States Government in connection with the large U. S.

7 (c) ships are among those settled by this Agreement :

1. Services and supplies for the large U. S. 7 ( c ) ships during the 7 (c) period .

2. ( a ) Reconditioning and reconversion of the ships listed in Part A of Schedule 1 hereto attached, and ( b) reconversion, as
distinguished from reconditioning, of the ships listed in Part B of Schedule 1 hereto attached.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1947
(i) The contribution of the United States Government toward vessel expenses during the respective periods of reconditioning/reconversion, forming part of the allowance for the claims set forth in clauses 2 (a ) and 2 (b) immediately above, has been computed on the basic bareboat rate under the June 5 Memorandum and respective time estimates for reconditioning/reconversion provided by the Netherlands Government.
(ii ) The allowance made by the United States Government for the replacement of furniture has been computed on the basis of the articles named in the respective off-survey reports, and on the basis of the cost of procurement and installation of the furniture at the respective ports of reconversion.
(iii ) The allowance made by the United States Government in respect of reconversion has been made, inter alia, on the basis of removing and making good in the way thereof fittings added during the conversion of the ships , and takes account of an allowance made by the Netherlands Government to the United States Government for equipment of the United States Government left aboard. Such equipment becomes the property of the Netherlands Government.
(iv) The allowance made by the United States Government with respect to reconditioning includes war risk insurance damage to the ships listed in Part A of Schedule 1 hereto attached, in so far as such damage was incurred during the 7 (c) period.
3. Costs of medical departments maintained by the Netherlands Government in the United States with respect to the large U. S. 7 (c) ships during the 7 ( c) period .
4. Services as Accounting Line (agency services ) for the large U. S. 7 ( c ) ships with respect to the 7 ( c) period .
B. The following claims of the Netherlands Government against the United States Government in connection with the small U. S. 7 ( c) ships are among those settled by this Agreement :
1. Services and supplies for the small U. S. 7 ( c ) ships while they were severally operated by the Netherlands Government for the United States Government during the 7 ( c) period.
2. Reconversion and reconditioning of the small U. S. 7 ( c) ships. The claim put forward by the Netherlands Government and the allowance therefor made by the United States Government have been restricted to expenses of reconversion and reconditioning attributable to the use of the ships by the United States Government during the 7 (c) period and have been computed on a prorata basis on figures submitted by the Netherlands Government

3935

3936 Shipping claims.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
covering the over-all reconversion/reconditioning expenses arising from the date of delivery of the vessels under their basic charterparties in 1942. This claim is without prejudice to claims for additional reconversion/reconditioning expenses under the basic charterparties.
3. Services as Accounting Line ( agency services ) for the small U.S. 7 (c) ships with respect to the period while they were severally operated by the Netherlands Government for the United States Government during the 7 ( c ) period .
C. The following further shipping claims of the Netherlands Government against the United States Government are among those settled by this Agreement :
1. A portion of the costs (not paid by the United States Navy ) of arming certain Netherlands ships chartered pursuant to the June 5 Memorandum and allocated to the United States Government.
2. 80% , payable in dollars, of the hire increase on ships chartered pursuant to the June 5 Memorandum (the hire increase being one shilling per deadweight ton per month from July 1, 1944 until redelivery and (due to the waiver of off-hire insurance ) sixpence per deadweight ton per month from July 1 , 1944 to December 31, 1944 ) . The allowance made by the United States Government in respect of this claim is accepted by the Netherlands Government in satisfaction of its claim under the June 5 Memorandum for 80% , payable in dollars, of such hire increase.
3. Dollar expenditures for free Netherlands ships in United States ports between August 21 , 1941 and September 30, 1945 of a type eligible for lend- lease.
4. Charter hire in the amount of $180,000 under "bareboat out-time charter back" chartering arrangements (claim withdrawn in consideration of the withdrawal by the United States Government of its claim for reduction of charter hire under such arrangements ) .
II. CLAIMS OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
A. The following claims of the United States Government against the Netherlands Government are among those settled by this Agreement :
1. Equipment of the United States Government left aboard the large U. S. 7 ( c ) ships, as stated in sub-paragraph IA2 ( iii ) of this Appendix.
2. Dollar amounts due for retroactive reverse lend-lease under the exchange of letters between E. C. Zimmerman, Chairman of the Netherlands Purchasing Commission , and Charles Denby, Special Assistant for Reciprocal Aid , Foreign Economic Administration, dated September 20 and 26, 1944.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAY 28, 1947

SCHEDULE 1 OF APPENDIX 1 The Large U. S. 7 (c) Ships

PART A: PART B:

BOSCHFONTEIN BRASTAGI JAPARA KLIPFONTEIN KOTA AGOENG KOTA BAROE POELAU LAUT SLOTERDIJK SOMMELSDIJK TABINTA TJISADANE
BLOEMFONTEIN KOTA INTEN NOORDAM WELTEVREDEN

SCHEDULE 2 OF APPENDIX 1 The Small U. S. 7 (c) Ships

BONTEKOE BOTH MAETSUYCKER SWARTENHONDT TASMAN THEDENS VAN DER LIJN VAN HEUTSZ

3937

APPENDIX 2

MEANING OF CERTAIN TERMS
1. Maritime incidents. The term " maritime incidents" as used in sub-paragraphs 3F and 4A ( 1 ) of this Agreement includes damages to shore structures, aids to navigation, and port installations, fixed or moveable, arising out of marine operations.
2. Requisitioning. As applied to action by the United States Government the term " requisitioning" , as used in sub-paragraphs 3F and 4A ( 4 ) of this Agreement, means requisitioning and taking over under the Act of Congress of October 10, 1940, 54 Statutes at Large 1090, and amendments thereto , or under the Act of Congress of October 16, 1941 , 55 Statutes at Large 742, and amendments thereto, as the case may be.

Ante, pp. 3927, 3928.

3. Corporations . The term " corporations", as used in the first sen-

tence of paragraph 4 of this Agreement, includes public bodies of

United States nationality of whatever character, and, as used in sub-

paragraphs 4A ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) and (4 ) of this Agreement, includes public

bodies of Netherlands nationality of whatever character.

4. Arms, Ammunition and Implements of War. As used in paragraph 9 of this Agreement the term " arms, ammunition and imple-

Ante, p. 3932.

ments of war" means supplies of the types listed in Proclamation number 2717 of the President of the United States, dated February
14, 1947, 12 Federal Register 1127.

61 Stat . , Pt . 2 , p. 1051.

3938
Ante, p. 3924. Ante, p. 3925.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

An Officer of the Department of State to the Netherlands Minister

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

MY DEAR MR. DAUBANTON :

May 28 1947

In connection with the overall settlement of lend-lease and other

war accounts between our two Governments certain cash reimburse-

ment lend-lease requisitions heretofore filed by your Government with this Government have been converted in specified amounts, aggregating $7,510,785.09, to credit terms.
In accordance with our understanding, the amount so converted has been included in the computation of the net amount of $67,500,000 due from your Government to this Government under sub-paragraph 1A of the settlement agreement signed today, and payment of the amount converted will therefore be upon the terms set forth in that agreement.
As a result of these actions the amount of $7,510,785.09 is now refundable to your Government from the amount deposited by your Government under these requisitions. Refund will be made promptly under sub-paragraph 3A ( 1 ) of today's agreement.

Sincerely yours,

NORMAN T. NESS

Mr. CH. J. H. DAUBANTON Minister Plenipotentiary Netherlands Embassy Washington 9, D. C.

NORMAN T. NESS Director, Office ofFinancial
and Development Policy

The Netherlands Minister to an Officer of the Department of State

NETHERLANDS EMBASSY WASHINGTON 9. D. C.
HA- 5334
MY DEAR MR. NESS :

MAY 28 1947

I have your letter of today in which you advise me that certain cash reimbursement lend-lease requisitions heretofore filed by my Government with your Government have, to the extent of $7,510,785.09 , been converted to credit terms.

I am glad to confirm that your letter is in accordance with the

understanding of my Government. Sincerely yours ,

CH. J. H. DAUBANTON

Mr. NORMAN T. NESS , Director

Minister Plenipotentiary

Office of Financial and Development Policy

Department of State

Washington, D. C.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1947

3939

The Netherlands Ambassador to the Secretary of State

HA- 5338 SIR :

NETHERLANDS EMBASSY WASHINGTON 9, D. C.

MAY 28, 1947

I have the honor to advise you on instructions from my Government that in view of the general terms of the Agreement for the settlement of lend-lease and other war accounts signed today by our two Governments my Government has withdrawn its claims against your Government arising out of the requisitioning by your Government of certain military supplies of the Netherlands Government in 1917 and 1918.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. A. LOUDON

Ambassador of the Netherlands

The Honorable GEORGE C. MARSHALL,

Secretary of State.

Ante, p. 3924.

The Secretary of State to the Netherlands Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

EXCELLENCY :

May 28, 1947

I have the honor to refer to your note of today in which you advise me that, in view of the general terms of the agreement for the settlement of lend- lease and other war accounts signed today by our two Governments, your Government has withdrawn its claims against my Government arising out of the requisitioning by my Government of certain military supplies of the Netherlands Government in 1917 and 1918.
My Government is much gratified at this action on the part of your Government and I desire to express to you and your Government the appreciation of my Government thereof.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

His Excellency Dr. A. LOUDON, Ambassador of the Netherlands

G. C. MARSHALL

Ante, p. 3924.

3940 Ante, p. 3924. Ante, p. 3927.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Netherlands Ambassador to the Secretary of State

HA- 5336

NETHERLANDS EMBASSY WASHINGTON 9, D. C.

MAY 28, 1947

SIR :

I have the honor to refer to the Agreement for the settlement of lend-lease and other war accounts signed concurrently herewith by the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which comprises the Kingdom in Europe, the Netherlands Indies and the Territories

of Surinam and Curaçao, and by the United States Government, and have the honor to confirm that the terms of that Agreement have received the concurrence of the Government of the Netherlands Indies, and of the Territorial Governments of Curaçao and Surinam, in so far as these terms relate to these Governments by implication or by direct reference in the text.

With particular reference to paragraph 3 , sub-paragraphs F and G, of the Agreement , I am authorized to confirm that the intergovernmental waiver of claims (with the exceptions thereto) is understood to apply as well to obligations and claims between your Government and the Government of the Netherlands Indies, and the Territorial Governments of Surinam and Curaçao, respectively.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. A. LOUDON

The Honorable GEORGE C. MARSHALL,

Ambassador of the Netherlands

Secretary of State.

Ante, p. 3924. Ante, p. 3927.

The Secretary of State to the Netherlands Ambassador
DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON May 28, 1947
EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to refer to your note to me of today in which you
refer to the Agreement signed concurrently herewith by the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and by the United States Government for the settlement of lend-lease and other war accounts.
I note your confirmation that the terms of the Agreement have received the concurrence of the Government of the Netherlands Indies, and of the Territorial Governments of Surinam and Curacao, in so far as these terms relate to these Governments by implication or by direct reference in the text.
With particular reference to paragraph 3, sub-paragraphs F and G, of the Agreement, I am glad to confirm that my Government shares

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1947
the understanding that the intergovernmental waiver of claims (with the exceptions thereto ) applies as well to obligations and claims between my Government and the Government of the Netherlands Indies, and the Territorial Governments of Surinam and Curacao, respectively .
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
G C MARSHALL
His Excellency Dr. A. LOUDON, Ambassador of the Netherlands.

3941

The Netherlands Ambassador to the Secretary of State

NETHERLANDS EMBASSY WASHINGTON 9, D. C.
HA- 5337

MAY 28, 1947

MY DEAR MR. SECRETARY :

In accordance with arrangements made in 1945, the Netherlands Government advanced to the United States War Shipping Administration a total amount of 5,250,000 Netherlands guilders. These guilders were used by the War Shipping Administration to cover ship disbursements and other expenses in the Netherlands both before and

after VJ-Day up to November, 1946, The Netherlands Government has agreed that the principle of re-
ciprocal aid shall be applied to the period up to November 1 , 1945 (VJ-Day +60 ) and in the course of the negotiations between representatives of our Governments on the over-all settlement of lend- lease, the United States Maritime Commission, as successor to the War Shipping Administration , has stated a figure of 1,393,438 Netherlands guilders as having been spent during that period , for the type of expenditure eligible for reverse lend -lease under a broad interpretation of the general principle of reciprocal aid .
It has been agreeable to the Netherlands Government to accept that statement without further proof or investigation. Accordingly the remaining United States obligation is now agreed to be 3,856,562 Netherlands guilders ( 5,250,000 minus 1,393,438 ) , which will be paid by the United States Maritime Commission to the Netherlands Ministry of Finance before July 1 , 1947 .
For this repayment the Maritime Commission may first use the Netherlands guilders remaining in the two War Shipping Administration accounts with the Nederlandsche Bank ; the then remaining

obligation will be paid in United States dollars computed at the rate of $0.376,953 to the guilder.

If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding this letter and your reply to that effect will constitute an agreed interpretation of sub-paragraph 3A ( 6) of today's Agreement between our

Ante, p. 3926.

3942

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

two Governments regarding settlement for lend-lease and other war accounts.

Sincerely yours,

A. LOUDON

The Honorable GEORGE C. MARSHALL

Ambassador of the Netherlands

Secretary of State.

Ante, p. 3926.

The Secretary of State to the Netherlands Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON May 28, 1947

MY DEAR MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have your letter of today with regard to the obligations of my

Government arising from the advance of a total amount of 5,250,000

Netherlands guilders by your Government to the United States War Shipping Administration.

I am glad to confirm that your letter is in accordance with the

understanding of my Government. Your letter and this reply will therefore constitute an agreed interpretation of sub-paragraph 3A ( 6)

of today's Agreement between our two Governments regarding settlement for lend- lease and other war accounts.

Sincerely yours,

G. C. MARSHALL

His Excellency Dr. A. LOUDON,

Ambassador of the Netherlands

Ante, p. 3927.

The Netherlands Ambassador to the Secretary of State

NETHERLANDS EMBASSY WASHINGTON 9, D. C.
HA- 5340

MAY 28 , 1947

MY DEAR MR. SECRETARY :

With reference to the Agreement for the settlement of lend -lease and other war accounts signed today between our Governments I am glad to confirm that, under the arrangements and procedures referred to in sub- paragraph 3 C of that Agreement, the following claims of the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands against the United States War and Navy Departments are settled by the mutual undertakings in that Agreement :

A. Claims totalling $3,682,274.60 :

1. Claims in the amount of $564,612.84 for certain articles and services supplied to the United States Armed Forces in the Netherlands from September 2 , 1945 to March 31 , 1946 .

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1947

2. Claims in the amount of $882,661.76 for all articles and services supplied to the United States Armed Forces in the Territories of Surinam and Curaçao from September 2, 1945 to August 31 , 1946 ($ 862,128.59 claimed from the United States Army and $20,533.17 from the United States Navy) .
3. Claims in the amount of $1,500,000 for those articles ( such as coal, wood and cement) which were supplied to the United States Armed Forces in the Netherlands under reciprocal aid procedures before September 2 , 1945 and subsequently determined to be ineligible for reciprocal aid on the grounds that they were in very scarce supply and essential to the Netherlands economy and had to be replaced from abroad.
4. Claims in the amount of $735,000 for airplanes ( Beechcraft ) originally bought and paid for by the Netherlands Government and turned over to the United States Army on the termination of the Netherlands Flying School at Jackson, Mississippi.

B. All other claims for articles and services supplied to the United States Armed Forces in the Netherlands from September 2, 1945 to March 31 , 1946.

I should appreciate your advising me whether the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding.
Sincerely yours, A. LOUDON

The Honorable GEORGE C. MARSHALL,

Ambassador of the Netherlands

Secretary of State.

The Secretary of State to the Netherlands Ambassador
DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON May 28, 1947
MY DEAR MR. AMBASSADOR : I have your letter of today listing certain claims of the Govern-
ment of the Kingdom of the Netherlands against the United States War and Navy Departments and stating that those claims are settled by the mutual undertakings in the Agreement for the settlement of lend -lease and other war accounts signed today between our two Governments. I am glad to confirm that your letter is in accordance with the understanding of my Government.
Sincerely yours, G. C. MARSHALL
His Excellency Dr. A. LOUDON,
Ambassador of the Netherlands

3943

3944
Ante, p. 3924.
Ante, p. 3927. Ante, p. 3930.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
The Secretary of State to the Netherlands Ambassador
DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON May 28, 1947
MY DEAR MR. AMBASSADOR : In connection with the Agreement signed today between our Gov-
ernments for the settlement of lend-lease and other war accounts, and your letter to me of today acknowledging settlement, among others, of certain claims of your Government against the United States War and Navy Departments amounting to $3,682,274.60 , I wish to advise you that the total number of Netherlands guilders in accounts of finance officers of the United States armed forces to be turned over to the Netherlands Government pursuant to the arrangements and procedures referred to in sub-paragraph 3C of the above mentioned Agreement is 61,390,703. This amount will be turned over to the Netherlands Government as soon as the Netherlands Government has made the payment of $ 19,500,000 referred to in sub -paragraph 6A of the Agreement and executes appropriate documents in form acceptable to the War Department.
An additional amount of 31,552 guilders now in accounts of finance officers of the United States Army is shown by United States Army records to have been captured from the enemy. This amount will be turned over to the Netherlands Government unconditionally. If further examination of United States Army records should hereafter reveal that any portion of the above mentioned amount of 61,390,703 guilders was captured from the enemy, the War Department will promptly pay to the Netherlands Government its dollar equivalent, computed at the rate of $0.377415 per guilder. If other captured guilders are found among other guilder holdings of the United States Army, such captured guilders will be turned over to the Netherlands Government unconditionally. The United States Army, by arrangement with representatives of the Netherlands Government, will render any assistance agreed to be necessary to discover such items.
It is my understanding that the Netherlands Government agrees, upon request, to convert into dollars, at the rate specified above, guilders tendered by the United States Army up to an aggregate dollar value of $ 100,000 over and above the 61,390,703 guilders above referred to and in addition to guilders acquired by the United States Army through official government channels. No request for conversion of guilders in excess of such $100,000 will be made by or on behalf of the United States Army other than in respect to guilders acquired by the United States Army through official Netherlands Government channels .
It is further my understanding that this Agreement settles any claims that the Netherlands Government may have for guilder advances made to the United States armed forces in the Territories of Surinam and Curacao prior to September 1 , 1946 and in the Netherlands in Europe prior to the date of this Agreement.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1947
I should appreciate your advising me whether the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding.
Sincerely yours, G. C. MARSHALL
His Excellency Dr. A. LOUDON, Ambassador of the Netherlands

3945

The Netherlands Ambassador to the Secretary of State

NETHERLANDS EMBASSY WASHINGTON 9, D. C.
HA-5341

MAY 28, 1947

MY DEAR MR. SECRETARY : With reference to your letter to me of today concerning guilders
held by the United States Armed Forces, I am glad to confirm that your letter is in accordance with the understanding of my Government.
Sincerely yours, A. LOUDON
Ambassador of the Netherlands

The Honorable GEORGE C. MARSHALL Secretary of State.

An Officer of the War Department to the Netherlands Minister

WAR DEPARTMENT OFFICE OF THE BUDGET OFFICER
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
Mr. CH. J. H. DAUBANTON Minister Plenipotentiary Netherlands Embassy 1470 Euclid Street, N. W. Washington 25, D. C.

28 MAY 1947

DEAR MR. DAUBANTON : In connection with the Agreement signed today between our Gov-
ernments for the settlement of lend-lease and other war accounts and recent conversations between representatives of our Governments in that connection, I am glad to confirm that, upon presentation of appropriate documents in form acceptable to the United States Army, articles and services procured by the United States Army in the Netherlands and received after March 31 , 1946 will be paid for in dollars by the United States Army in the European Theater and articles and services procured by the United States Army in the Territories of Surinam and Curacao and received after August 31,

Ante, p. 3924.

3946

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
1946 will be paid for by the United States Army in local currency presently held or to be acquired with United States dollars.
It is understood that the liability of the United States Army to the Netherlands Government, including liability to the Governments of Surinam and Curacao, for procurement by the United States Army of articles and services received before the above mentioned dates is settled by that Agreement, which settles also other claims against the War Department as stated in that Agreement.
I shall appreciate your confirming that the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding.
Sincerely yours,

George Jauchand, o
GEORGE J. RICHARDS Major General , GSC Budget Officer for the War Department

The Netherlands Minister to an Officer of the War Department

NETHERLANDS EMBASSY WASHINGTON 9, D. C.
HA- 5342

MAY 28 1947

DEAR GENERAL RICHARDS :

I have your letter of today concerning payment and other settlement for articles and services procured by the United States Army in the Kingdom of the Netherlands. I am glad to confirm that your letter is in accordance with the understanding of my Government.
Sincerely yours, CH. J. H. DAUBANTON. Minister Plenipotentiary

Major General GEORGE J. RICHARDS Budget Officer for the War Department The Pentagon

Washington 25, D.C.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAY 28, 1947

3947

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NETHERLANDS INDIES REGARDING A LINE OF CREDIT FOR THE PURCHASE OF UNITED STATES SURPLUS PROPERTY
1. General Terms
A. The United States Government and the Netherlands Indies Government agree that their rights and obligations in connection with the line of credit for the purchase of surplus property heretofore granted by the United States Government to the Netherlands Indies Government in the amount of $ 100,000,000 shall be as stated in this Agreement. The agreement of July 11 , 1946 between the two Governments , establishing such line of credit , is superseded by this Agreement.
B. The amount of the line of credit is $ 100,000,000. C. The terms of payment of the amount due under the line of credit shall be as stated in paragraph 2 of this Agreement. This change from the original terms of payment has been consented to by the United States Government as part of the general settlement of lend-lease and other war accounts signed concurrently herewith by the United States Government and the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. D. The line of credit is for use in purchasing prior to January 1, 1948 United States surplus property, wherever situated , made available by the Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner. E. Charges heretofore made against the line of credit shall continue to be charges against it as from the respective dates of the charges, but no interest will be payable for the period before July 1, 1946 and interest will accrue thereafter as provided in sub-paragraph 2B of this Agreement. F. Procedural arrangements heretofore made in connection with the line of credit shall continue in force until changed.
2. Terms of Payment
A. The amount due under the line of credit will be paid by the Netherlands Indies Government to the United States Government in dollars in thirty annual instalments, which shall become payable on July 1 of each year beginning July 1 , 1951. The first instalment shall be equal to one-thirtieth of the amount due as of July 1 , 1951. Each subsequent instalment shall be equal to so much of the amount due (as of the date of the instalment ) as has not previously become payable, divided by the number of instalments that have not previously become payable.

3948

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
B. Interest on the amount due will be paid to the United States Government by the Netherlands Indies Government in dollars at the fixed rate of two percent per annum on July 1 of each year beginning July 1 , 1947, accruing from the previous July 1 on the amount due on such previous July 1. With respect to the amount of any reduction in the amount due under the authority of sub-paragraph 2C and paragraph 3 of this Agreement interest for the period from the preceding July 1 shall be charged only to the date of such reduction.
C. The Netherlands Indies Government may at any time or times make payments to the United States Government under this Agreement of amounts not then payable or larger than are then payable. Any such payment will be credited first to past due interest , if any, and then to past due instalments, if any, and then to the amount due at the time of such payment.
D. If by agreement of both Governments it is determined that because of extraordinary and adverse economic conditions arising during the course of payment, any of the periodic payments of interest, of principal, of interest and principal, or of any part thereof would not be to the common advantage of both Governments, payment may be postponed on such terms and conditions as may be agreed.
3. Provision of Netherlands Indies Currency and of Property
A. The Netherlands Indies Government, when requested by the United States Government, will make available at any time or times, by payment to the United States Government or to such persons or organizations as the United States Government may designate, Netherlands Indies currency in any amount (computed as provided in subparagraph 3E of this Agreement ) not in excess of the amount due as of such time plus past due interest, for :
( 1 ) The payment of any or all of the ordinary governmental expenditures in the Netherlands Indies of the United States Government or any department or agency thereof ;
(2) The acquisition of real property, improvements thereon or furnishings therefor, agreed upon by the two Governments ; and
(3) The payment of the cost of educational programs agreed upon by the two Governments.
B. In case the United States Government wishes to acquire any property located in the Netherlands Indies, real or personal, tangible or intangible ( other than for export except by mutual agreement ) , or to improve or furnish any property so located in which it has an interest, the Netherlands Indies Government will at any time or times , as requested by the United States Government, enter into negotiations, and use its best efforts consistent with its public policy, to reach an agreement with the United States Government whereby there will be delivered to the United States Government the properties, improvements or furnishings which the United States Government desires or which the representatives of the United States Govern-

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1947
ment have selected. Representatives of the United States Government may at their discretion conduct discussions directly with owners of property or with contractors for improvements or furnishings as to fair terms and prices prior to the delivery of such property, improvements or furnishings to the United States Government.
C. The United States Government declares that it is now its intention to request that Netherlands Indies currency be made available for agreed educational programs under sub-paragraph 3A of this Agreement to the value of $7,000,000 and that it is now its intention to request that Netherlands Indies currency be made available for, or that there be delivered , real property, improvements and furnishings, or both, under sub-paragraphs 3A and 3B of this Agreement to the value of $1,300,000 . This statement of intention does not prevent the United States Government from later proposing different amounts from these in these connections. The foregoing amounts are inclusive of amounts heretofore requested under corresponding arrangements hitherto existing under the line of credit.
D. The dollar equivalent (computed in accordance with subparagraph 3E of this Agreement) of any Netherlands Indies currency made available and of the Netherlands Indies currency value of any properties, improvements and furnishings delivered under this paragraph 3 or under corresponding arrangements hitherto existing under the line of credit shall be credited first to interest, if any, and then to instalments, if any, past due under this Agreement and then to the amount then due under this Agreement.
E. Any Netherlands Indies currency made available and the Netherlands Indies currency value of any properties, improvements and furnishings delivered under this paragraph 3 or under corresponding arrangements hitherto existing under the line of credit will be valued at the par value between such currency and dollars established in conformity with procedures of the International Monetary Fund, or, if no such par value exists, at the rate most favorable to the United States Government used by the Netherlands Indies Government in any official transaction at the time of the request by the United States Government that such currency be made available or that such properties, improvements or furnishings be delivered .
DONE at Washington, in triplicate, this twenty-eighth day of May, 1947.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : G C MARSHALL
Secretary of State of the United States of America
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NETHERLANDS INDIES : A. LOUDON
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Kingdom of the Netherlands at Washington 95347°-50-PT. IV- 39

3949

3950

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
The Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands hereby guarantees to the United States Government the performance by the Government of the Netherlands Indies of all the obligations of the Government of the Netherlands Indies under the foregoing Agreement.
DONE at Washington, in triplicate, this twenty-eighth day of May, 1947.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS : A. LOUDON
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary ofthe Kingdom of the Netherlands at Washington

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAY 28, 1947

3951

MEMORANDUM OF ARRANGEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND AND THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS

Memorandum of Arrangement between the Government of the United States of America (hereinafter referred to as the United States Government) , of the one part, the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (hereinafter referred to as the United Kingdom Government) , represented by the

Minister of Transport, of the second part, and the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands (hereinafter referred to as the Netherlands Government) , of the third part.

1. As used in this Memorandum :

A. The term "June 5 Memorandum" means the "Memorandum

"June 5 Memorandum ."

of Arrangement Regarding Netherland East Indies Shipping. 5th

June, 1942. ", and the amendments thereto , between the United

Kingdom Government and the Netherlands Government. B. The term "Dollar Agreement" means the "Memorandum of
Agreement for Payment of Hire on Netherlands Vessels Chartered

"Dollar ment."

Agree-

to the British Minister of War Transport under the Memorandum of June 5th, 1942, as amended ", dated as of June 5, 1942, between the United States Government and the United Kingdom Government.
C. The term "7 (c) ships" means the ships listed in Annex A hereto.
D. The term "7 ( c ) period" means, in the case of each 7 ( c) ship, the period commencing the date, on or about May 23, 1945 , on which the ship became subject either to the exchange of notes between the Netherlands Embassy at Washington and the United States Department of State, dated June 6 , 1945 and July 31 , 1945 , or to the exchange of notes between the Netherlands Embassy at London and the British Foreign Office, dated June 9, 1945 and August 11 , 1945, and ending on the date of redelivery to the Netherlands Government or March 2, 1946, whichever was the earlier.

"7 (c) ships." "7 (c) period."

2. The three Governments have discussed certain claims regarding dollar overpayments of charter hire by the United Kingdom Government to the Netherlands Government under the June 5 Memorandum, corresponding overpayments by the United States Government to the United Kingdom Government under the Dollar Agreement, and adjustments of charter hire under the June 5 Memorandum. Annexes A, B, C, D, and E hereto are copies of letters exchanged between the

3952

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Waiver ofclaims.

three Governments in these connections. This Memorandum is executed to carry out the intentions expressed by the three Governments in those letters.
3. The United States Government hereby waives all its claims against the United Kingdom Government respecting overpayments by the United States Government to the United Kingdom Government under the Dollar Agreement arising from the removal of the 7 (c) ships during the 7 (c ) period from the operation of the June 5 Memorandum.
4. The United Kingdom Government hereby waives all its claims against the Netherlands Government respecting dollar overpayments of charter hire by the United Kingdom Government to the Netherlands Government under the June 5 Memorandum arising from the removal of the 7 ( c) ships during the 7 ( c) period from the operation of the June 5 Memorandum .
5. The Netherlands Government hereby waives all its claims against the United Kingdom Government for the dollar portion of any outstanding or further adjustments in charter hire with respect to the ships named in the June 5 Memorandum.

DONE at Washington , in triplicate, this twenty-eighth day of May, 1947.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : WILLARD L THORP
Assistant Secretary of State for Economic Affairs
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND, Represented by the Minister of Transport : By F. V. CROSs . Shipping Attaché, British Embassy at Washington
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS : CH. J. H. DAUBANTON.
Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the Kingdom of the Netherlands at Washington

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1947

3953

ANNEX A

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

MY DEAR MR. CROSS :

MAY 23, 1947

This is to confirm the conversations between representatives of the

British Embassy and the State Department with regard to over-

Overpayment of charter hire.

payment of charter hire on the ships named in the ensuing list. These ships, hereinafter referred to as the 7 ( c) ships, became known by that designation in 1945 from the application to them of Article 7 (c) (second sentence ) of the Agreement on Principles Having Reference to the Continuation of Coordinated Control of Merchant Shipping,

dated August 5, 1944.
BLINJOE BLOEMFONTEIN BOISSEVAIN BONTEKOE BOSCHFONTEIN BOTH BRASTAGI GENERAAL MICHIELS GENERAAL VERSPYCK JAPARA KHOEN HOEA KLIPFONTEIN KOTA AGOENG

They are the following :
KOTA BAROE KOTA INTEN MAETSUYCKER MELCHIOR TREUB NOORDAM OPHIR PAHUD POELAU LAUT RUYS SLOTERDIJK SOMMELSDIJK SWARTENHONDT TABINTA

TASMAN TEGELBERG THEDENS
TJISADANE TJITJALENGKA  VALENTIJN VAN DEN BOSCH VAN DER LIJN VAN HEUTSZ VAN OUTHOORN VAN SPILBERGEN WELTEVREDEN

The circumstances of the overpayment of charter hire on these ships were as follows :

Pursuant to the "Memorandum of Arrangement Regarding Netherland East Indies Shipping. 5th June 1942." (known as the June 5 Memorandum) , signed on behalf of the Netherlands Government and the British Minister of War Transport, the Netherlands Government chartered certain ships to the United Kingdom Government, with the provision that 80 percent of the stipulated charter hire should be paid by the United Kingdom Government to the Netherlands Government in dollars. The 7 ( c) ships were a part of the ships so chartered . By a collateral agreement (known as the Dollar Agreement ) , dated as of June 5, 1942, between the United Kingdom Government and this Government, this Government undertook to pay to the United Kingdom Government the amount of dollars required for the payment of the dollar charter hire due from the United Kingdom Government to the Netherlands Government under the June 5 Memorandum. Pur-
suant to these agreements dollar charter hire was paid by the United Kingdom Government to the Netherlands Government, and the United States Government reimbursed the United Kingdom Government in dollars for the dollar charter hire so paid. These arrangements applied not only to those of the chartered ships that were allocated to the United States Government but also to those which continued in service with the British Ministry of War Transport within the framework of the United Maritime Authority.
In 1945, more than three years after the effective date of these arrangements, the 7 ( c ) ships were retroactively removed from them . The change was made by an exchange of notes between the Netherlands Embassy at London and the Foreign Office, dated June 9, 1945 and August 11 , 1945 , and by an exchange of notes between the

3954

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Netherlands Embassy at Washington and the State Department, dated June 6, 1945 and July 31 , 1945.
Under the new arrangement the 7 ( c) ships were made available by the Netherlands Government at a nominal charter hire to either the United Kingdom Government or the United States Government. This arrangement was retroactive to specific dates on or about May 23, 1945, and from those dates, therefore, the United Kingdom Government had no obligation, with respect to these ships, to pay the charter hire stipulated in the June 5 Memorandum.
Nevertheless, between the specific dates on or about May 23 , 1945 and the establishment of the new arrangement, and for a short time thereafter while negotiations were being conducted , the administrative machinery for the payment of charter hire under the June 5 Memorandum continued to function as before, with the result that, in addition to payments owing with respect to ships remaining under the June 5 Memorandum, overpayments of dollar charter hire for the period ending August 31, 1945 in the amount of $ 1,487,056.95 ( as shown by the statement certified by the Ministry of Transport dated October 25, 1946 ) were made by the United Kingdom Government to the Netherlands Government with respect to the 7 ( c) ships and this same amount of dollars was paid under the Dollar Agreement by the United States Government to the United Kingdom Government with respect to the 7 (c) ships.
These overpayments became in due course the subject of discussion among the three Governments concerned, and it has been understood that the United Kingdom Government would ask for repayment by the Netherlands Government of the amount overpaid by the United Kingdom Government to the Netherlands Government, and the United Kingdom Government would in turn repay to the United States Government the amount overpaid by the United States Government to the United Kingdom Government. We understand that the United Kingdom Government has in fact asked the Netherlands Government for the repayment expected from the Netherlands Government.
As you know from discussions which we have had with you of matters of common concern to the three Governments, the United States Government and the Netherlands Government are now negotiating an overall settlement of lend-lease and other war accounts. Because of undertakings which the Netherlands Government is prepared to give to the United States Government as part of this settlement, the United States Government desires to submit to your Government the following proposals with respect to the overpayment of charter hire arising by reason of the removal of the 7 ( c) ships from the operation of the June 5 Memorandum during the 7 (c) period (which in each case commenced on a specific date on or about May 23, 1945 and ended on the date of redelivery to the Netherlands Government or March 2, 1946, whichever was the earlier) :

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAY 28, 1947

( 1 ) The United States Government will waive all its claims against the United Kingdom Government for overpayments so arising under the Dollar Agreement.
(2) The United Kingdom Government will waive all its claims against the Netherlands Government for dollar overpayments of charter hire so arising under the June 5 Memorandum .

If this course is acceptable to your Government, we shall be glad

to arrange with you for the necessary waivers, to be delivered con-

currently with the signing of the overall lend -lease settlement with the Netherlands Government.

Sincerely yours,

NORMAN T. NESS

NORMAN T. NESS Director, Office of Financial
and Development Policy

Mr. F. V. CROSS Shipping Attache British Embassy

Washington 8, D. C.

ANNEX B

BRITISH EMBASSY,

WASHINGTON 8, D. C.

May 23rd, 1947.

MY DEAR MR. NESS :

This is in reply to your letter of May 23rd , 1947, about overpayment

of charter hire arising by reason of the removal of the 7 ( c ) ships

from the operation of the June 5th Memorandum during the 7 (c) period. I am instructed to confirm that the course proposed in your letter is acceptable.

Sincerely yours,

F. V. CROSS F. V. CROSS

Mr. NORMAN T. NESS,

Shipping Attache.

Department of State, Room 1235, 1818 "H" Street,

Washington, D.C.

3955

3956 Waiver of claim.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ANNEX C
NETHERLANDS EMBASSY WASHINGTON 9, D. C.
HA-5432
Mr. F. V. CROSS Shipping Attache British Embassy Washington 8, D. C.

MAY 23, 1947

Mr. NORMAN T. NESS , Director Office ofFinancial and Development Policy Department of State, Washington 25, D. C.
DEAR SIRS :
In view of the terms of the proposed agreement between the Netherlands Government and the United States Government for the settlement of lend -lease and other war accounts, and in view of the proposed waiver by the United Kingdom Government of its claim against the Netherlands Government for dollar overpayments of charter hire on the so-called 7 ( c) ships under the "Memorandum of Arrangement Regarding Netherland East Indies Shipping. 5th June 1942. ", the Netherlands Government, upon the signing of the proposed settlement agreement with the United States Government, and upon receipt of the proposed waiver by the United Kingdom Government of its claim for such dollar overpayments of charter hire, will deliver a waiver to the United Kingdom Government of the claim of the Netherlands Government for the dollar portion of any outstanding or further adjustments in charter hire with respect to the ships named in the June 5 Memorandum . The dollar portion of such adjustments in charter hire is now estimated at $120,000 to $140,000.
Sincerely yours, CH. J. H. DAUBANTON CH. J. H. DAUBANTON Minister Plenipotentiary

ANNEX D
DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON
MAY 23, 1947 MY DEAR MR. DAUBANTON :
This is in reply to your letter of May 23, 1947 addressed to Mr. F. V. Cross, British Shipping Attache, and to me with regard to a proposed waiver by the Netherlands Government of its claim for the dollar portion of any outstanding or further adjustments in charter hire with respect to the ships named in the memorandum of June 5, 1942 to which you refer. As you know, the necessary arrangements

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1947

in this connection are now being made by representatives of your

Embassy, the British Embassy, and the State Department. Sincerely yours, NORMAN T. NESS NORMAN T. NESS

Director, Office ofFinancial

Mr. CH. J. H. DAUBANTON,

and Development Policy

Minister Plenipotentiary, Netherlands Embassy,

Washington 9, D. C.

ANNEX E

BRITISH EMBASSY WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
May 23rd, 1947.

MY DEAR MR. DAUBANTON :

This is in reply to your letter of May 23rd , 1947 , addressed to Mr.

Ness and to me with regard to a proposed waiver by the Netherlands

Government of its claim for the dollar portion of any outstanding or

further adjustments in charter hire with respect to the ships named in

the memorandum of June 5th, 1942, to which you refer. As you

know, the necessary arrangements in this connection are now being

made by representatives of your Embassy, the State Department and the British Embassy.

Sincerely yours ,

F. V. CROSS F. V. CROSS

Shipping Attaché.

Mr. CH. J. H. DAUBANTON, Minister Plenipotentiary, Netherlands Embassy, Washington 9, D. C.

3957

3958

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

May 7, 15, 1945 (T. I. A. 8. 1752]

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting cooperation in the reconversion of industry in the transition from war to peace, continuing the principles of the Hyde Park Declaration of April 20, 1941. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Ottawa May 7 and 15, 1945; entered into force May 15, 1945.

The American Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State for External Affairs

No. 320

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Ottawa, May 7, 1945.

Hyde Park Declaration .
geCneornaltiprninucaiptlieso.n of

SIR : Under the Hyde Park Declaration of April 20, 1941 , [ ] measures
were taken to make the most prompt and effective utilization of the productive facilities of the United States and Canada for wartime purposes. As the period of reconversion approaches, the Government

of the United States has given consideration to the continuance of cooperative measures . It believes that these measures apply as a

matter of course to the Pacific War and it has noted that the Declara-

tion itself contains no termination date, specific or implied . Accordingly, under the instructions of my Government, I have the honor to propose that the general principles of the Hyde Park Declaration be

continued on a fully reciprocal basis for the remainder of the war and that the same spirit of cooperation between the two countries should characterize their treatment of reconversion and other problems of mutual concern as the transition to peacetime economy progresses.

duRsetcroyn. version of in Priorities.

Consequent upon the degree of integration resulting from our wartime measures of cooperation in the economic field , numerous specific problems will arise from time to time. One such problem to which urgent attention is being given is the reconversion of industry to the maximum extent compatible with vigorous prosecution of the war against Japan . The problem is particularly urgent from the viewpoint of the United States because the Hyde Park Declaration was implemented in large part by the equal application to Canada of domestic procedures in respect of priorities and allocations.
It is evident that during this initial phase of reconversion, priorities administered by the respective control agencies of the two governments are of the utmost importance to industries seeking to prepare for normal trading conditions . In response to informal inquiries

received from Canadian officials in Washington and on condition of

reciprocity, particularly where Canada is a principal supplier of materials needed for reconversion and civilian production , the Government of the United States would be prepared to implement the follow-

1[Department of State Bulletin, Apr. 26, 1941 , p . 494.]

61 STAT. ] CANADA- RECONVERSION OF INDUSTRY-MAY 7, 15, 1945
ing principles as regards requirements which Canadian industry may desire to fulfil in this country for reconversion purposes :
1. The application of the priorities powers towards Canadian requirements should be as closely parallel to the application of the same powers toward domestic requirements as is practicable .
2. Canada should , in general, be given priorities assistance only of a character and to an extent parallel to priorities assistance given similar requirements in the United States, including any machinery needed for immediate reconversion. To the extent, however, that components could be obtained by Canada without benefit of priorities assistance, no objection could be made to more rapid reconversion activities in Canada.
3. Assistance should be given to Canadian companies through their priorities officer to grant automatic AA-4 priorities and firm CMP allotments to manufacturing concerns producing less than $50,000 of product per quarter, similar to such assistance granted domestic small firms . Similarly, the rating privileges of Pri. Reg. 24 and L-41 , as they may be amended , should be available to Canadian applicants .
4. It is recognized that complete parallelism of revocation and relaxation of orders between the United States and Canada is not possible because of the differences in the situations in the two nations . However, an effort should be made, in conjunction with the Canadian authorities, to reach the greatest parallelism possible. If it should become necessary for Canada to relax their orders more rapidly than the United States , in no case should priorities assistance be given to a Canadian manufacturer to make civilian goods which are prohibited in this country by War Production Board order .
While the problem of reconversion of industry is the first of the problems which my Government believes it mutually desirable to consider under the principles of the Hyde Park Declaration , other problems will shortly arise. The Canadian Ambassador's note, no. 156 , [¹ ] of April 30 to the Secretary of State regarding the disposal of surplus war-like stores arising from orders placed by either government in the other country may, when the dimensions of the subject become more clearly defined , provide an instance in which my Government will seek the favorable consideration of your Government under the Hyde Park principles. Other questions will inevitably arise in connection with the relaxation of wartime controls affecting trade, such as the War Exchange Tax and procedures applicable to exports to the other American republics.
In his statement on the initial period of reconstruction presented to Parliament by the Minister of Reconstruction last month, the Minister referred to the great wartime increase in the output and exchange of goods which was dependent on close collaboration among the Governments of the British Commonwealth and of the United States. He
1 [Not printed.]

3959

3960

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
stated that postwar collaboration along equally bold and imaginative lines was essential in the interest of expanded world trade . At Washington on March 13, 1945, a similar statement was made by Prime Minister King and by the late President Roosevelt in regard to the problems of international economic and trading policy.
In view of the high degree of economic interdependence of the Canadian and American economies, the Government of the United States desires to assure the Government of Canada that it will consider and deal with the problems of the transition from war to peace in the spirit of the Hyde Park Declaration which gave rise to such successful cooperation for war purposes . My Government would greatly appreciate a similar assurance on the part of the Canadian Government, together with an expression of its views on the principles which the United States Government would be willing to apply in the initial problem of the reconversion of industry.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . RAY ATHERTON
The Right Honorable The Acting Secretary of State for External Affairs, Ottawa.

The Acting Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANADA

No. 48

OTTAWA, May 15, 1945.

EXCELLENCY :

The Government of Canada welcomes the assurance of the Govern-

ment of the United States, contained in your note No. 320 of May 7th, that it will consider and deal with the problems of the transition from war to peace in the spirit of the Hyde Park Declaration which

gave rise to such successful co-operation for war purposes . The Canadian Government agrees that post-war collaboration

along bold and imaginative lines is essential in the interests of expanded world trade.

The Government of Canada on its part desires to assure the Gov-

ernment of the United States that the same spirit of co-operation, which was manifested in the Hyde Park Declaration, will characterize the Canadian Government's consideration and treatment of the

problems of the period of transition which are of mutual concern. The principles which the Government of the United States would
be willing to apply on condition of reciprocity in the initial problem of the reconversion of industry are acceptable to the Canadian Government . The Canadian Government believes indeed that the principles proposed will minimize for both Governments the difficulties of reconversion.

61 STAT. ] CANADA- RECONVERSION OF INDUSTRY-MAY 7, 15, 1945

The Canadian Government assumes that "the condition of reciproc-

ity" implies a continued adherence to the principle of reciprocity followed throughout the war when both Governments have made

allowance for the difference in the conditions existing and in the

methods of control adopted in the two countries.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

BROOKE CLAXTON

Acting Secretary of State

His Excellency The Honourable RAY ATHERTON ,

for External Affairs.

Ambassador of the United States of America, United States Embassy, Ottawa.

3961

3962

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

August 14, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1757)

Agreements and supplementary exchanges of notes between the United States of America and Italy respecting financial and economic relations. Signed at Washington August 14, 1947 ; entered into force August 14, 1947.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

Between the Government of the United States of America and
the Government of Italy regarding settlement of certain wartime claims and related matters.

Mutual renuncia-

tion of claims.

As an integral part of the measures which are now being taken to

restore normal financial and economic relations between our coun-

tries, and as a step toward the economic stability of Italy, the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Italy

bave reached an understanding providing for mutual renunciation of claims and for related agreements, as follows :

ARTICLE I

RENUNCIATION OF CLAIMS BY ITALY OR ITALIAN NATIONALS

1. (a) In reaffirmation of and connection with Article 76 of the

p.611401S.tat . , Pt . 2 ,

Treaty of Peace with Italy, dated at Paris February 10, 1947 , the Government of Italy waives all claims of Italy of any description, arising directly out of the war or out of actions taken because of the

existence of a state of war in Europe after September 1 , 1939, against United States nationals or the Government of the United States of

America, any of its agencies, or contractors or sub-contractors of, or licensees from the Government of the United States of America or its agencies.
(b) The Government of Italy further discharges and agrees to save harmless the Government of the United States of America from

any responsibility and liability for the processing, settlement and satisfaction of any such claims of Italian nationals .

2. (a) The Government of Italy waives any claims of Italy against the Government of the United States of America, its agencies or United States nationals arising out of actions with respect to ships

under Italian registry and flag, including ships in which there is an Italian interest, between September 1 , 1939 and the coming into force of the present Memorandum of Understanding, including claims with respect to the use of Italian ships for civilian or other passenger carriage.
(b) The Government of Italy further discharges and agrees to save harmless the Government of the United States of America from any responsibility and liability for the processing, settlement and satisfaction of any such claims of Italian nationals.

61 STAT.] ITALY-FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-AUG. 14, 1947

3963

3. The Government of Italy waives any claims of Italy against the Government of the United States of America, its officers or agencies arising out of the maintenance of camps in Italy for displaced persons and for all costs incurred in caring for displaced persons in Italy, including but not limited to claims for reimbursement of the United States share of lira funds advanced to the Allied Financial Agency for the purposes specified in this paragraph.

Displaced persons.

4. (a) The Government of Italy discharges and agrees to save harmless the Government of the United States of America from any responsibility and liability for the processing, settlement and satisfaction of any claims :
(i) of Italian nationals , whether or not asserted in the courts of any country, respecting which the ultimate liability is that of the Government of the United States of America,

Maritime incidents.

and arising out of maritime incidents , occurring between

September 1 , 1939 and the coming into force of the present

Memorandum of Understanding, excluding incidents in-

volving ships engaged in purely commercial activities ; or (ii) of Italian nationals or persons domiciled or resident in
Italy against the Government of the United States of

Royalties for use of inventions, etc.

America, its contractors and sub-contractors , or licensees

therefrom, for royalties ultimately paid or payable by the United States of America, or for use of inventions, pat-

ented or unpatented , or for infringement of patent rights,

arising out of any use of patents or inventions by the Government of the United States of America or such

contractors, sub-contractors or licensees, in connection with the wartime activities of the United States of

America or programs connected therewith .

(b) The Government of Italy further waives any such claims of

Italy .

5. (a) The Government of Italy discharges and agrees to save harmless the Government of the United States of America from any responsibility and liability for the processing, settlement and satisfaction

Liability arising out of acts or omission of
eamrpmeldoyfeorecses.of U. S.

of any claims of Italian nationals, or non-Italian nationals , residing in or transiting Italy, whether or not asserted in the courts of any country, respecting which the ultimate liability is that of the Government of

the United States of America and arising out of acts or ommission , both

line of duty and non-line of duty, of military and civilian employees of the armed forces of the United States of America, occurring between

September 1 , 1939 and the coming into force of the present Memorandum of Understanding.

(b) The Government of Italy further waives any such claims of Italy .
(c) The Government of Italy further agrees to process and to assume full responsibility for the settlement and discharge of any such claims .

3964

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Seizure and disclo sure of technology.

6. (a) The Government of Italy discharges and agrees to save harmless the Government of the United States of America from any responsibility and liability for the processing, settlement and satisfaction of any claims of Italian nationals against the Government of the United States of America, its agencies , or persons acting under its direction , arising out of the seizure and disclosure of technology , whether patented or not, under programs of the Government of the United States of America for the acquisition and disclosure of such technology in connection with wartime operations and any claim against any person based upon use of information so disclosed .

(b) The Government of Italy further waives any such claims of Italy.

p.611396S.tat., Pt . 2,

7. (a) The obligation to return Italian goods under Article 73 (2) of the Treaty of Peace is understood to be an obligation only to return such goods in the condition in which they exist at the time of return.

(b) (i) Except as specified in Article 73 (2) of the Treaty of Peace, no claim shall be asserted by Italy against the Government of the United States of America or its agencies, or against duly authorized United States nationals, arising out of or in connection with procurement or requisition of supplies, services or facilities in Italy by the military forces or civil agencies of the United States of America prior to the effective date of the said Treaty.

(ii) The Government of Italy further agrees to process and to assume full responsibility for the settlement and discharge of any such claims of Italian nationals.

8. With respect to any of the waivers included in the present Article, the Government of Italy reaffirms its obligations to make equitable compensation in lira to the extent set out by the terms of p.611402S.tat. , Pt . 2, Article 76 (2) of the Treaty of Peace.

ARTICLE II

RENUNCIATION OF CLAIMS BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

9. The Government of the United States of America, recognizing the contribution of Italy towards the winning of the war by Italian action since October 13, 1943 , and recognizing the conditions and p.611245S.tat. , Pt . 2. terms of the Treaty of Peace with Italy and of various clauses of this financial agreement, agrees to renounce and waive claims of the Government of the United States of America or its agencies arising out of the following connections :
(a) Civilian supplies furnished , prior to the effective date of this Memorandum of Understanding, under the military relief program ;
(b) Dollars transferred or to be transferred to Italy, equivalent to the net lira expenditures of the United States armed forces in Italy ; and

61 STAT. ] ITALY- FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-AUG. 14, 1947

3965

(c) Supplies procured with funds appropriated for the purposes

of the Lend-Lease Act and transferred to Italy through the agency of

55 Stat. 31. 22 U. S. C. §§ 411-

419.

the United States Department of War.

10. The Government of the United States of America waives such

Italian prisoners of war.

claims as it may have for the payment of salary to Italian officer

prisoners of war, made consistent with the convention relating to the treatment of prisoners of war, signed at Geneva on July 27, 1929.

47 Stat. 2021.

11. (a) The Government of the United States of America agrees to continue to honor in lira, at the prevailing rate of exchange applicable

to the Government of the United States of America expenditures in

Italy at the time of payment, and in accordance with procedures established by the United States military authorities, all valid evi-

dences of obligations made out by the Government of the United States of America or its agencies and in its name or the name of any of its agencies to former Italian prisoners of war and surrendered Italian personnel, both officer and enlisted, it being understood that the two Governments may enter into a subsequent understanding with reference to the procedures which may be utilized by the Government of the United States of America to meet these obligations.

(b) The Government of Italy further agrees to undertake that

all payments which have been made by it to former Italian prisoners of war and surrendered personnel prior to the effective date of this

agreement in lira at less than the prevailing rate of exchange applicable to the Government of the United States of America expenditures

in Italy at the time of payment, shall be adjusted to such then prevailing rate of exchange.
12. The Government of the United States of America waives all

costs, including maintenance costs, incurred in the repatriation of

Italian prisoners of war to the assembly point on Italian territory. For the purposes of this Memorandum of Understanding the assembly

point on Italian territory shall be considered the first point of arrival
of Italian prisoners of war on Italian territory. Italian Partisans,
13. The Government of the United States of America waives any ete
claims it or its agencies or officers may have with respect to advances
made by it toward the financing of Italian Partisans . The Govern-
ment of the United States of America, in further recognition of the

renunciation of claims by the Government of Italy, and with particular reference to paragraph 2 (a) above , waives all claims it may have against the Government of Italy resulting from advances made by it toward the maintenance of Italian diplomatic missions , and also

Ante, p. 3962.

Italian shipping and crews in neutral ports . 14. (a) The Government of the United States of America waives

any claims it or its agencies or officers may have with respect to any transfer made directly by the armed forces of the United States of America, their agencies, or officers of supplies and materials from

military stocks to the Government of Italy, to the Italian armed forces or their agencies or officers.
(b) The Government of the United States of America, with reference to 14 (a) above, reserves the right of recapture of any arms ,
95347-50--PT. IV- -40

U. S. right of recapture of arms, etc.

3966

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

ammunition and implements of war (of the types listed in Proclamation No. 2717 of the President of the United States of America,

p.611051S.tat. , Pt. 2 , dated February 14 , 1947) , which may have been transferred by the armed forces of the United States of America, its agencies or officers,

and are held by the Government of Italy, its agencies or officers, on

the date on which notice requesting return is communicated to the Government of Italy, but the Government of the United States of

America has indicated that it does not intend to exercise generally its right of recapture of such articles. Disposal of such articles by the Government of Italy in or for use in other countries will be made only with the consent of the Government of the United States of America

and with payment to the Government of the United States of America

of any proceeds of such disposals. The Government of Italy agrees that all such articles held by it will be used only for purposes com-

Surplus property.

patible with the principles of international security and welfare set forth in the Charter of the United Nations.
15. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to affect in any manner obligations assumed by Italy or the United States of America pursuant to settlements between Italy and the United States of America involving disposal of surplus property.

ARTICLE III
PROPERTY OF NATIONALS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
16. (a) The Government of Italy will expedite in any manner necessary arrangements now being undertaken, or those necessary to be undertaken , for the desequestration of and release of any unusual controls over the property or interests in property in Italy of nationals of the United States of America, including the cancellations of any controls, contracts, including contracts for the sale of capital assets or a part thereof, agreements or arrangements undertaken during the period of control in accordance with the request, or at the direction of the Government of Italy, its agencies or officials, which are not deemed to have been in the best interest of such property or interests . The Government of Italy further agrees that with respect to the applicapp6.114S0t4a, t1405. Pt . 2, tion of Paragraph 4 (a) and 4 (d) of Article 78 of the Treaty of Peace to cases which fall within the terms of this provision, as well as to all cases to which Paragraph 4 ( a) and 4 (d) of Article 78 apply, the requirement "for the restoration to complete good order" shall be followed in all cases where there has been ( 1 ) deterioration of the physical property while under Italian control, and (2 ) where the physical property has suffered non-substantial damage as a result of acts of war. In all other cases the requirement to compensate in lira to the extent of "two-thirds of the sum necessary" shall apply, provided that the Government of Italy may, with respect to any case, apply the requirement " for the restoration to complete good order."
(b) The Government of Italy agrees that with respect to the property or interests in property of United States nationals which
property or interests are not covered by section (a) above, it will ac-

61 STAT. ] ITALY-FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-AUG. 14, 1947

3967

cord such property or interests treatment identical with that pro-

vided in section (a) above.

(c) The Government of Italy shall, with reference to para-

graphs (a) and (b) above, apply Paragraph 4 (b) of Article 78 of the Treaty of Peace .
(d) Compensation paid in accordance with terms of this section

61 Stat ., p. 1404.

Pt . 2,

shall be free of levies, taxes , or other charges and shall be freely usable

in Italy but shall be subject to the foreign exchange control regulations which may be in force in Italy from time to time.

ARTICLE IV

PREWAR CLAIMS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA OR OF UNITED STATES NATIONALS

17. (a) The Government of Italy, recognizing the existence of legitimate claims of the Government of the United States of America or of United States nationals against the Government of Italy or Italian nationals arising out of contracts or other obligations incurred prior to December 8, 1941 , agrees that it will make every effort to settle at an early a date as possible, and to facilitate to the extent possible the payment of the debts or other claims referred to hereinabove .
(b) With respect to lira payments made under Italian law to Italian government agencies in purported discharge of debts in nonlira currencies owed by Italian nationals to nationals of the United States of America, the Government of Italy fully recognizes the existence of legitimate claims of the Government of the United States of America or United States nationals in these cases. The Government
of Italy further agrees that within six months from the date of the signing of this Memorandum of Understanding it will either assume the obligation to make payment of such debts in foreign exchange to the extent that lira payments were made to the Government of Italy in the manner referred to above, or it will provide that the Italian debtor shall be held directly responsible for the payment of such debts . In either event, the Government of Italy agrees that it will make available the foreign exchange necessary for the discharge of such debts at the earliest date permitted by the Italian foreign exchange position. It is understood that the provisions of this section do not prejudice any settlement between the Government of Italy and the Italian debtors with respect to such lira payments .

ARTICLE V

DEFINITIONS
18. For the purposes of this Memorandum of Understanding, the term "nationals" means individuals who are nationals of the United States of America, or of Italy, or corporations or associations organized under the laws of the United States of America or Italy , at the time of the coming into force of this Memorandum of Understanding, provided, that under Article III above, nationals of the United States of

"Nationals."?

3968

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

America shall, for purposes of receiving compensation , also have held this status either at the time at which their property was damaged or on September 3, 1943 , the date of the Armistice with Italy.

ARTICLE VI CLAUSES OF THE TREATY OF PEACE

19. It is agreed that any of the clauses of the Treaty of Peace, dated p.611245S.tat., Pt. 2, at Paris February 10, 1947 , to which this Memorandum of Under-
standing may refer, shall be considered as constituting an integral part of this Memorandum of Understanding, as between the Governments of the United States of America and Italy.

ARTICLE VII EFFECTIVE DATE

Valid languages.

20. This Memorandum of Understanding shall enter into force upon the day it is signed .
Done at Washington in duplicate, in the English and Italian languages , both of which shall have equal validity, this 14th day of August, 1947.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: ROBERT A LOVETT

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF ITALY : LOMBARDO

61 STAT. ] ITALY- FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-AUG. 14, 1947
MEMORANDUM D'INTESA
tra il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America e il Governo Italiano, concernente il regolamento di determinati "claims" del tempo di guerra e di questioni connesse.
Come parte integrale dei provvedimenti che si vengono ora adottando per ristabilire normali rapporti finanziari ed economici fra i nostri Paesi, e come un passo verso la stabilita ' economica dell'Italia, il Governo italiano e il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America hanno concordato il seguente memorandum d'intesa, in cui si dispone per una rinuncia reciproca ai " claims " e per gli accordi relativi .
ARTICOLO I
Rinuncia ai "claims " da parte dell'Italia o di cittadini italiani.
1. (a) A conferma ed in relazione con l'articolo #76 del Trattato di Pace con l'Italia, in data 10 febbraio 1947 , il Governo italiano rinuncia ad ogni "claim " di qualsiasi natura dell'Italia, che possa sorgere direttamente dal fatto della guerra o dai provvedimenti adottati a seguito di uno stato di guerra esistente in Europa, dopo il I settembre 1939, nei confronti del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America, di qualsiasi dei suoi organi , o di qualsiasi dei suoi cittadini , o di appaltatori o sub-appaltatori , o di licenziatari del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America o dei suoi organi.
(b) Il Governo italiano inoltre esonera ed accetta di ritenere indenne il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America da qualsiasi responsabilita ' in ordine all'accertamento, al regolamento ed al soddisfacimento di qualsiasi dei predetti "claims " di cittadini Italiani .
2. (a) Il Governo italiano rinuncia a qualsiasi "claim" dell'Italia nei confronti degli Stati Uniti d'America, dei suoi organi e cittadini, che sorga da azioni concernenti navi sotto registro e bandiera italiani, comprese le navi nelle quali vi sia un interesse italiano , fra il I settembre 1939 e l'entrata in vigore del presente memorandum d'intesa, inclusi i "claims" relativi all'uso di navi italiane per il trasporto di passeggeri civili e altri passeggeri.
(b) Il Governo italiano inoltre esonera ed accetta di ritenere indenne il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America da qualsiasi responsabilita' per l'accertamento , il regolamento e il soddisfacimento di qualsiasi dei predetti " claims " di cittadini italiani .
3. Il Governo italiano rinuncia a tutti i "claims" dell'Italia, nei confronti del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America, di suoi funzionari o organi, sorgenti dal mantenimento dei campi per i profughi in Italia, e per tutte le spese sostenute per l'assistenza dei profughi in Italia, comprendenti ma non limitantisi ai "claims" relativi al rimborso della quota afferente agli Stati Uniti d'America dei fondi in lire anticipati all'AFA ("Allied Financial Agency") per gli scopi specificati in questo paragrafo.

3969

3970

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
4. (a) Il Governo italiano esonera ed accetta di ritenere indenne il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America da qualsiasi responsabilita' per l'accertamento , il regolamento e il soddisfacimento di tutti i "claims":
(i) di cittadini italiani anche se riconosciuti in giudizio in qualsiasi Paese, per i quali la responsabilita ' definitiva e' del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America, e derivanti da incidenti marittimi verificatisi tra il I settembre 1939 e l'entrata in vigore del presente memorandum d'intesa, esclusi gli incidenti concernenti navi impegnate in attivita' puramente commerciali ; oppure
(ii) di cittadini italiani o persone domiciliate o residenti in Italia, nei confronti del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America, di suoi appaltatori e sub-appaltatori, o di licenziatari per canoni pagati o pagabili in definitiva dagli Stati Uniti d'America o per l'uso d'invenzioni , brevettate o no, o per violazione dei diritti di brevetto , sorgenti da qualsiasi uso di brevetti o di invenzioni da parte del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America o dei predetti appaltatori , subappaltatori o licenziatari, in connessione alle attivita' degli Stati Uniti del tempo di guerra o ai programmi ad esse collegate.
(b) Il Governo italiano rinuncia altresi' a qualsiasi di tali "claims" da parte dell' Italia.
5. (a) Il Governo italiano esonera ed accetta di ritenere indenne il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America da qualsiasi responsabilita' per l'accertamento, il regolamento e il soddisfacimento di tutti i "claims " di cittadini italiani e di cittadini non-italiani, residenti o in transito in Italia, riconosciuti o meno da tribunali di qualsiasi Paese, rispetto ai quali la responsabilita' definitiva e' del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America, e derivanti da atti o omissioni, sia in servizio che fuori servizio, di dipendenti militari e civili delle forze armate statunitensi verificatisi fra il I settembre 1939 e l'entrata in vigore del presente memorandum d'intesa .
(b) Il Governo italiano rinuncia altresi' a qualsiasi di tali "claims" da parte dell ' Italia .
(c) Il Governo italiano concorda inoltre di accertare e di assumere piena responsabilita' per il regolamento e la sistemazione di tutti i predetti "claims".
6. (a) Il Governo italiano esonera ed accetta di ritenere indenne il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America da qualsiasi responsabilita' per l'accertamento, il regolamento e il soddisfacimento di qualsiasi "claim " di cittadini italiani nei confronti del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America, di suoi organi o di persone operanti ai suoi ordini derivante dal sequestro e dalla divulgazione di ritrovati tecnici, brevettati o no , conformemente ai programmi del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America per l'acquisto e la divulgazione di tali ritrovati tecnici in relazione alle operazioni del tempo di guerra e di qualsiasi "claim" nei confronti di qualsiasi persona, formato sull'uso di informazioni cosi' divulgate.

61 STAT. ] ITALY-FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-AUG. 14, 1947
(b) Il Governo italiano rinuncia altresi' a qualsiasi di tali "claims" da parte dell ' Italia.
7. (a) L'obbligo di restituire i beni italiani a norma dell'articolo 73 (2) del Trattato di Pace, viene inteso come obbligazione di restituire soltanto tali beni nelle condizioni in cui si trovano al momento della restituzione .
(b) (i) eccetto quanto specificato nell'articolo 73 (2) del Trattato di Pace, nessun "claim" verra' presentato dall'Italia nei confronti del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America , di suoi organi e di suoi cittadini debitamente autorizzati , che derivi o sia connesso al reperimento o alla requisizione di rifornimenti , servizi e agevolazioni in Italia da parte delle forze armate o degli organi civili degli Stati Uniti d'America, anteriormente alla data di entrata in vigore del predetto Trattato .
(ii) Il Governo italiano concorda altresi' di accertare e di assumere piena responsabilita' per il regolamento e la sistemazione di qualsiasi di tali "claims" di cittadini italiani .
8. Riguardo a qualsiasi delle rinuncie comprese in questo articolo , il Governo italiano riafferma il suo obbligo di corrispondere equa indennita' in lire nei termini stabiliti dall'art . #76 (2 ) del Trattato di Pace.
ARTICOLO II
Rinuncia ai "claims" da parte del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America.
9. Il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America riconoscendo il contributo dell'Italia alla vittoria nella guerra, rappresentato dall'azione italiana a partire dal 13 ottobre 1943 , e riconoscendo le condizioni ed i termini del Trattato di Pace con l'Italia e di varie clausole di questo accordo finanziario , concorda di rinunciare ai "claims" del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America e dei suoi organi sorgenti dai seguenti rapporti :
(a) "Civilian supplies" forniti anteriormente alla data di entrata in vigore di questo memorandum d'intesa, a norma del programma militare di soccorso ;
· (b) Dollari trasferiti o da trasferire all'Italia , equivalenti alla spesa netta in lire delle forze armate statunitensi in Italia ; e
(c) Rifornimenti disposti con i fondi stanziati per gli scopi previsti dal "lend-lease act" e trasferiti in Italia per il tramite di organi del Ministero della Guerra degli Stati Uniti d'America.
10. Il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America rinuncia a quei "claims" che gli possano derivare dal pagamento di stipendi a ufficiali italiani, prigionieri di guerra, effettuato a norma della convenzione di Ginevra del 29 luglio 1929 relativa al trattamento dei prigionieri di guerra.
11. Il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America concorda di continuare a far fronte in lire al tasso di cambio applicabile alle spese in Italia del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America, in vigore al momento del pagamento e secondo le procedure stabilite delle Autorita ' militari degli Stati Uniti d'America, a tutte le valide documentazioni di impegni emesse dal Governo degli Stati Uniti di America o dai suoi organi o in suo nome o in nome dei suoi organi nei riguardi dei prigionieri di

3971

3972

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
guerra italiani e di personale arresosi italiano , sia ufficiali che truppa, restando convenuto che i due Governi potranno concludere una successiva intesa con riferimento alle procedure che potranno essere seguite dal Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America per far fronte a tali impegni .
(b) Il Governo italiano ulteriormente conviene di impegnarsi a che tutti i pagamenti in lire che sono stati da esso effettuati a exprigionieri di guerra italiani e a personale arresosi italiano prima della data effettiva del presente accordo, per un controvalore inferiore al tasso di cambio applicabile alle spese in Italia del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America in vigore al momento del pagamento, vengano adeguati a tale tasso di cambio in vigore al predetto momento.
12. Il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America rinuncia a tutte le spese, comprese quelle di mantenimento, sostenute per il rimpatrio dei prigionieri di guerra italiani fino ai punti di concentramento nel territorio italiano . Ai fini di questo accordo, per punto di concentramento sara' considerato il primo punto di arrivo dei prigionieri di guerra nel territorio italiano .
13. Il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America rinuncia a qualsiasi "claim " che esso o i suoi organi o i suoi funzionari possano avere in dipendenza di anticipazioni da esso effettuate per il finanziamento dei partigiani italiani . Il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America, in ulteriore riconoscimento della rinuncia ai "claims" da parte del Governo italiano, o con particolare riferimento al paragrafo 2 (a) di cui sopra, rinuncia a tutti i "claims" che esso possa avere nei confronti del Governo italiano in dipendenza di anticipazioni fatte da esso medesimo per il mantenimento di missioni diplomatiche italiane, nonche ' di navi ed equipaggi italiani in porti neutrali.
14. (a) Il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America rinuncia a qualsiasi "claim" che esso o i suoi organi o i suoi funzionari possano avere in dipendenza di qualsiasi cessione effettuata direttamente dalle forze armate degli Stati Uniti d'America, da loro organi o funzionari, di rifornimenti e materiali prelevati dalle scorte militari , a favore del Governo italiano , delle forze armate italiane o di loro organi o funzionari.
(b) Il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America, con riferimento al paragrafo 14 (a) di cui sopra, si riserva il diritto di recuperare armi, munizioni e strumenti di guerra (dei tipi elencati nella Proclamazione No. 2717 del Presidente degli Stati Uniti d'America in data 14 febbraio 1947) , che possano essere stati ceduti dalle forze armate o da organi degli Stati Uniti d'America, e che siano detenuti dal Governo italiano , da organi o funzionari di questi , alla data in cui venga comunicata al Governo italiano la richiesta di restituzione ; il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America , ha fatto peraltro presente che in linea di massima non intende esercitare il suo diritto di recupero dei materiali predetti. La cessione dei materiali stessi da parte del Governo italiano ad altri Paesi o la concessione in uso in altri Paesi potra ' essere fatta solamente

61 STAT.] ITALY--FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS--AUG. 14, 1947
con il consenso del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America e dietro versamento al Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America di qualsiasi ricavo di tali cessioni. Il Governo italiano concorda che tutti i detti materiali detenuti da esso verranno impiegati soltanto per finalita' compatibili con i principi della sicurezza e del benessere internazionali espressi nella Carta delle Nazioni Unite.
15. Nulla di quanto e' qui contenuto dovra' essere interpretato in modo da modificare in qualsiasi maniera gli obblighi assunti dall'Italia o dagli Stati Uniti d'America , in conformita ' al regolamento fra l'Italia e gli Stati Uniti d'America della cessione dei beni " surplus".
ARTICOLO III
Beni di cittadini degli Stati Uniti di America.
16. (a) Il Governo italiano sollecitera' in tutti i modi i provvedimenti ora in corso di adozione , o quelli che occorra adottare, per il dissequestro e per la revoca di ogni controllo straordinario sui beni o sugli interessi di cittadini degli Stati Uniti d'America in beni in Italia, compresa la cancellazione di qualsiasi controllo , contratto , inclusi contratti per la vendita di attivita ' o di una parte di esse, accordo o intesa , disposti durante il periodo del controllo , dietro richiesta o per disposizione del Governo italiano , dei suoi organi o funzionari, i quali (provvedimenti) si ritenga non siano stati nel migliore interesse di tali beni o interessi. Il Governo italiano concorda inoltre che riguardo all'applicazione del paragrafo 4 (a) e 4 (d) dell'articolo #78 del Trattato di Pace ai casi che ricadono sotto questa disposizione , nonche ' a tutti i casi a cui si applicano le disposizioni dei paragrafi 4 (a) e 4 (d ) dell'articolo #78 , la prescrizione "per la rimessa in ottimo stato " dovra' essere applicata in tutti i casi in cui vi e' stata ( 1 ) deteriorazione dei beni fisici durante il controllo italiano , e (2) nei casi in cui i beni fisici hanno sofferto danni non sostanziali come conseguenza di atti di guerra. In tutti gli altri casi dovra' essere applicata la prescrizione di compensare in lire alla concorrenza dei " due terzi della somma necessaria " , salva la facolta' per il Governo italiano , rispetto ad ogni caso , di applicare la prescrizione "per la rimessa in ottimo stato".
(b) Il Governo italiano concorda che rispetto ai beni o agli interessi in beni di cittadini degli Stati Uniti i cui beni o interessi non siano compresi nella precedente sezione (a) , accordera' a tali beni o interessi l'identico trattamento previsto nella precedente sezione (a) .
(c) In riferimento ai precedenti paragrafi (a)- (b) , il Governo italiano applichera ' il paragrafo 4 (b) dell'articolo #78 del Trattato di Pace.
(d) Il compenso pagato a norma del disposto di questa sezione ´sara' esente da imposta , tasse, od altri oneri e sara ' liberamente utilizzabile in Italia, ma sara' soggetto alle norme di controllo valutario che al momento saranno in vigore in Italia.

3973

3974

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
ARTICOLO IV
"claims" prebellici del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America o di cittadini degli Stati Uniti d'America.
17. (a) Il Governo italiano, riconoscendo l'esistenza di legittimi "claims" del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America o dei suoi cittadini nei confronti del Governo italiano o dei suoi cittadini, derivanti da contratti o altre obbligazioni anteriori all'8 dicembre 1941 , concorda che fara' ogni sforzo per regolare al piu' presto possibile e per facilitare nella misura possibile il pagamento dei debiti o degli altri " claims" a cui sopra ci si riferisce.
(b) Rispetto ai pagamenti in lire fatti a norma della legge italiana, a organi del Governo italiano , con l'intendimento di scaricare i debiti in valute diversi dalla lira dovuti da cittadini italiani a cittadini degli Stati Uniti d'America, il Governo italiano riconosce pienamente l'esistenza di legittimi "claims" del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America o dei suoi cittadini in questi casi . Il Governo italiano concorda inoltre che entro sei mesi dalla data della firma di questo memorandum d'intesa esso: o assumera' l'obbligo di effettuare il pagamento di tali debiti in valuta estera fino alla concorrenza dei pagamenti in lire effettuati al Governo italiano nel modo anzidetto , oppure prendera' disposizioni perche' il debitore italiano sia tenuto direttamente responsabile per il pagamento di tali debiti . Nell'uno e nell'altro caso il Governo italiano concorda che rendera' disponibile la valuta estera necessaria per lo scarico di tali debiti al piu' presto possibile compatibilmente con la posizione valutaria dell'Italia. Resta inteso che le disposizioni di questa sezione non pregiudicano alcun regolamento fra il Governo italiano e i debitori italiani rispetto a tali pagamenti in lire.
ARTICOLO V
DEFINIZIONI
18. Ai fini del presente memorandum d'intesa, l'espressione "cittadini" (nationals ) si applica alle persone fisiche che siano cittadini degli Stati Uniti d'America o dell'Italia, e alle Societa ' o Associazioni costituite secondo le leggi degli Stati Uniti d'America o dell'Italia, alla data dell'entrata in vigore del memorandum d'intesa, fermo restando che rispetto al precedente articolo III , i cittadini degli Stati Uniti d'America dovranno, al fine di ricevere il compenso, aver posseduto questo status o all'epoca in cui i loro beni furono danneggiati , oppure al 3 settembre 1943 , data dell'armistizio con l'Italia.
ARTICOLO VI
Clausole del Trattato di Pace.
19. E' inteso che qualsiasi delle clausole del Trattato di Pace con l'Italia in data 10 febbraio 1947 , alle quali questo memorandum d'intesa si riferisca, sara ' considerata come parte integrante di questo memorandum, per cio' che concerne i rapporti fra i Governi degli Stati Uniti d'America e d'Italia.

61 STAT. ] ITALY-FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS--AUG. 14, 1947
ARTICOLO VII Data effettiva. 20. Le disposizioni di questo memorandum d'intesa entreranno in vigore immediatamente all'atto della firma. Il presente documento viene redatto in Washington in due testi rispettivamente in lingua inglese ed in lingua italiana, aventi ambedue eguale valore, alla data del 14 agosto 1947 . PER IL GOVERNO DEGLI STATI UNITI D'AMERICA :
ROBERT A LOVETT PER IL GOVERNO ITALIANO :
LOMBARDO

3975

3976

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

The Chief ofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation to the Acting Secretary of State
ITALIAN EMBASSY WASHINGTON, D. C. Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

U. S. military ceme. teries in Italy.
Ante, p. 3962.

SIR:

AUGUST 14, 1947

With respect to the "Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of

Italy regarding settlement of certain wartime claims and related

matters" , I am authorized , on behalf of the Government of Italy,

to make known to you the intentions of the Government of Italy with

respect to United States military cemeteries in Italy.

The Government of Italy is deeply aware of the fact that the existence of these cemeteries is the result of the valiant and heroic

sacrifices made by nationals of the United States of America in the cause of peace and justice for my country , as well as for their country. My Government is also deeply aware of the fact that for years to come the members of the families and relatives of those United States

nationals who are buried in United States military cemeteries in Italy will wish to visit their graves. The Government of Italy, therefore, in recognition of the circumstances which led to the establishment of these cemeteries and in full appreciation of their symbolic significance, offers to undertake to maintain in good order and in perpetuum all United States military cemeteries in Italy .
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . LOMBARDO
Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

The Honorable ROBERT A. LOVETT, Acting Secretary of State.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation
DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON August 14 , 1947
SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your note of this date
in the following terms :
[Text same as in preceding note. ] The Government of the United States of America not only values the offer of the Government of Italy to maintain in good order and in perpetuum all United States military cemeteries in Italy, but also the motives which prompted that offer.

61 STAT. ] ITALY-FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-- AUG. 14, 1947

It is, therefore, with a deep sense of appreciation that I accept, on behalf of my Government, the offer of the Government of Italy to undertake to maintain in good order and in perpetuum all United States military cemeteries in Italy.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. ROBERT A LOVETT

The Honorable IVAN MATTEO LOMBARDO , Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation.

Acting Secretary of State

3977

The Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation to the Acting Secretary of State

ITALIAN EMBASSY WASHINGTON, D. C.
Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

AUGUST 14, 1947 SIR :
With reference to the "Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the United States of America and the Government

Ante, p. 3962.

of Italy regarding settlement of certain wartime claims and related matters" , I have the honor to inform you of my Government's undertakings as set forth below with respect to the assistance to be given to nationals of the United States of America with respect

to their properties in Italy. This assistance is directed particularly

to the implementation of Article 78 of the Treaty of Peace with Italy and to Article III , paragraph 16 , of the above Memorandum of Understanding.

61 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 1403.
Ante, p. 3966.

The Government of Italy shall, as soon as possible, designate an

Italian governmental agency having authority to receive and determine claims of nationals of the United States of America with respect

to their properties in Italy, and to effect the restoration of such properties, or pay compensation, or both, as provided in Article 78 of the Treaty of Peace with Italy, and in accordance with the terms of Article III , paragraph 16 , of the Memorandum of Understanding.

61 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 1403.
Ante, p. 3966.

With a view to rendering appropriate assistance to nationals of the United States of America having claims falling within the scope

of this agreement, and also to any representative who may be designated by the Government of the United States of America to assist such nationals in the preparation and establishment of their claims , the Government of Italy further will, upon request and without charge, furnish copies of pertinent evidence and records in Italy, and will also, upon request and without charge make available to the designated representative of the United States of America funds in lira to the extent necessary to defray the local expenses in Italy, including subsistence, of such representative and his assistants, and also to pay compensation to Italian personnel designated in Italy

3978

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
by such representative, it being understood that such expenses will be kept to a minimum.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. LOMBARDO
Chief ofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation
The Honorable ROBERT A. LOVETT, Acting Secretary of State.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation
DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON August 14, 1947
SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your note of this date in
the following terms:
[Text same as in preceding note.]
I am pleased to inform you that the undertakings and procedures set forth in your note are satisfactory to my Government. These procedures can be expected to limit the expenses to be incurred under p.611405S.tat . , Pt . 2 , section 5 of Article 78 of the Treaty of Peace, which is a desirable result for both Governments .
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. ROBERT A LOVETT
Acting Secretary of State The Honorable
IVAN MATTEO LOMBARDO , Chief ofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation.

Ante, p. 3966.

The Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation to the Acting Secretary of State
ITALIAN EMBASSY WASHINGTON, D. C. Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

SIR:

AUGUST 14, 1947

Reference is made to Article III , paragraph 16 , of the "Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Italy regarding settlement of certain wartime claims and related matters" , signed this date.

61 STAT. ] ITALY-- FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS--AUG. 14, 1947

3979

One of the more troublesome problems which has arisen in con-

AmPerroipcearntyoiinl

Italy of compa-

nection with Article 78 of the Treaty of Peace has been concerned nie6s1. Stat . , Pt . 2,

with the property in Italy of American oil companies. The principal p. 1403.

difficulty which has been encountered in returning such properties to

the rightful owners has been the question of the employment rights

which accrued during the period of control of the American oil com-

panies by the Government of Italy.

I am authorized by my Government to advise you of the following agreement on the question of employment rights which has been

reached between the Government of Italy and representatives of the

oil companies:

1. The Anglo-American companies (which had originally requested the Government of Italy to consider as broken the con-

tinuity of employment for the employees on their pay rolls at the

moment of liquidation of the companies) have now in principle agreed to re-engage 95 % of the personnel. The Azienda Generale

Italiana Petroli on its side shall, in full agreement with the Italian

Treasury, pay the indemnities for the period running from the date

of the liquidation to the date of re-employment. The implementation of this formula can be expected to take place in the very near future .

2. An agreement has been reached on the partitioning of the market between the foreign companies on the one side and Azienda Generale Italiana Petroli on the other side. This agreement has

involved considerable sacrifice on the part of Azienda Generale Italiana Petroli.

3. Insofar as the war damages suffered by the American companies are concerned , the duty of the Government of Italy derives from Article 78 of the Treaty of Peace, and the policy applied will be in accordance with Article III, paragraph 16, of the above referred to Memorandum of Understanding.

61 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 1403.
Ante, p. 3966.

It is also understood that the properties and all assets will be returned, including, of course, the employee compensation funds which were on hand at the date of liquidation and which represent the funds available for persons still employed by the companies .
This agreement was made known to the representatives of the American oil companies in the United States of America concerned with this problem, as well as to officials of your Department, all of whom signified their approval.
I can, therefore, confirm to you that the Government of Italy accepts all the above engagements and will implement them at the earliest possible date .
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . LOMBARDO
Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation
The Honorable ROBERT A. LOVETT, Acting Secretary of State.

3980 Ante, p. 3966.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
The Acting Secretary of State to the Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation
DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON August 14, 1947
SIR : I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your note of this date
in the following terms :
[Text same as in preceding note.]
My Government is very pleased to know that the question of the return of the properties in Italy of American oil companies has been resolved in the manner set forth in your note . The solution is consistent with the terms of Article III , paragraph 16, of the "Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Italy regarding settlement of certain wartime claims and related matters " , signed this date.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . ROBERT A LOVETT
Acting Secretary of State The Honorable
IVAN MATTEO LOMBARDO , Chief ofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation.

The Chiefofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation to the Acting Secretary of State
ITALIAN EMBASSY WASHINGTON , D. C.
Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

Italian dollar bonds. Ante, p. 3962.

SIR :

AUGUST 14 , 1947

With reference to Article 4 of the "Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the United States of America and the

Government of Italy regarding settlement of certain wartime claims and related matters" , signed this date, I am pleased to be able to

advise you on behalf of the Government of Italy that a plan has been prepared for adjusting the unrepatriated bonds of the Italian dollar

issue, service on which has been suspended since 1940.

The proposed plan, which has been approved in principle by the Foreign Bond Holders Protective Council, Inc. , will embrace all pub-

licly held dollar bonds comprising three groups : first, bonds of the Kingdom of Italy ; second, bonds of the Cities of Rome and Milan, bonds of the Italian Credit Consortium for Public Works , and bonds

of the Mortgage Bank of the Venetian Provinces ; and third, bonds of

61 STAT. ] ITALY- FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS -AUG. 14, 1947

the Italian Credit Institute for Public Utility Enterprises and of eleven public utility corporations.
New bonds will be issued in an amount equal to the principal of the old bonds plus all arrears thereof at the former rates to January 1 , 1947. The new bonds to be issued in exchange for the Kingdom of Italy bonds will be issued by the Republic, while those issued in exchange of the old bonds in the second and third groups will be bonds of the Consortium and the Institute respectively, in each case guaran-

teed as to principal and interest by the Republic . The new bonds in all three groups are expected to bear interest at
1 % for 1947 , 1948 and 1949 ; 2 % for 1950 and 1951 ; and 3% beginning 1952. The first installment of interest on the new bonds will be paid in cash at the time of exchange. Commencing in January 1952 the three issues of bonds will be entitled to a cumulative sinking fund of 1% per annum for 1952 to 1956 inclusive and 2 % per annum beginning in 1957.

It is expected that the full details of the plan will be made public and the offer to the old bond holders will be made in the near future , as soon as the necessary registration under the Security Act of 1933 and other arrangements are completed . There is enclosed herewith

for your information additional details concerning the proposed plan. Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . LOMBARDO

Enclosure : Italian Dollar Bond Tabulation.

Chief ofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

The Honorable ROBERT A. LOVETT,

Acting Secretary of State.

ITALIAN DOLLAR BONDS

There are presently outstanding approximately $ 108,000,000 of nonrepatriated Italian dollar bonds on which service was suspended on June 10 , 1940 , and it is the desire of the Government of Italy to make an adjustment with respect thereto.
These obligations fall into three categories : first, bonds issued by the Government of Italy ; second , bonds issued by the Cities of Rome and Milan and by the Italian Credit Consortium for Public Works, and the Mortgage Bank of the Venetian Provinces ; and third , various corporate obligations. In connection with formulating an adjustment of Italian dollar bonds, it has been considered advisable to issue three types of obligations - one a direct obligation of the Government of Italy, to be issued in exchange for bonds falling within the first category and the other two being obligations of semi-governmental agencies , guaranteed as to principal and interest by the Government of Italy, to be issued in exchange for bonds falling within the second and third categories.
95347°-50- PT. IV- 41

3981

3982

* INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Adjustment plan.

I. Bonds of the Kingdom of Italy:

The issue of the above obligor to be considered in the following :

Issue

Maturity

Interest Dates

Kingdom of Italy

7s, 1951

J & D1

II. Bonds of the Cities of Rome and Milan, the Italian Credit Consortium for Public Works and the Mortgage Bank of the Venetian Provinces :

Issue

Maturity

Interest Dates

City of Milan City of Rome Consortium for Public Works Mortgage Bank of the Venetian Provinces

6½s, 1952 62s, 1952
7s, 1947 7s, 1952

A& 01 A & 01 M & S1 A& 01

III. Corporate Obligations :

The Corporate obligations outstanding are twelve issues of dollar bonds, 8 of

which represent, directly or indirectly, obligations of utility companies and 4 of

industrial companies. These obligations are the following :

Issue

Maturity

Interest Dates

Italian Public Utility Credit Institute Adriatic Electrict Co. Piedmont Hydro- Electric Co. Lombard Electrict Co. Isarco Hydro-Electric Co. Meridionale Electric Co. United Electric Service Co. Terni Industrial and Electric Co. Isotta Fraschini Automobile Factory Ercole Marelli Electric Manufacturing Co. Ernesto Breda Co. *Crespi Cotton Works

7s, 1952 7s, 1952 62s, 1960 7s, 1952 7s, 1952 7s, 1957 7s, 1956 62s, 1953 7s, 1942 628, 1953 7s, 1954 7s, 1952

J & J1 A & 01 A & 01 J & D1 M & N1 A & 01 J & D1 F & A1 J & D1 M & N1 F & A1 M & N1

*The lira bonds of Crespi Cotton Works, Ltd. (now Italian Textile Establishment (Milan) were originally sold in the U. S. with provision for payment in dollars at a rate of not less than 3.64 cents to the lira.

In order to effect an adjustment with the holders of such obligations, the following plan is proposed :

1. (a) The Government of Italy will offer a like principal amount of its 3% 30 year External Sinking Fund Bonds in exchange for the outstanding principal amount of the obligations of the Kingdom of Italy .
(b) The Italian Credit Consortium for Public Works, one of the present obligors and a semi-governmental agency, will offer (pursuant to authority granted by the Government of Italy) its bonds in exchange for the outstanding principal amount of the obligations of the Cities of Rome and Milan , the Italian Credit Consortium for Public Works and the Mortgage Bank of the Venetian Provinces. The entire debt service on such bonds will be guaranteed by the Government of Italy.
(c) The Italian Public Utility Credit Institute, one of the present obligors and a semi-governmental agency , will offer (pursuant to authority granted by the Government of Italy) its bonds in exchange for the outstanding principal amount of the twelve corporate issues.

61 STAT. ] ITALY--FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS--AUG . 14, 1947

The entire debt service on such bonds will be guaranteed by the Government of Italy.

2. Semi-annual interest payments on the three issues of bonds will accrue from January 1 , 1947. Interest will be paid in 1947 , 1948 and 1949 at the rate of 1 % per annum ; in 1950 and 1951 at the rate of 2% per annum ; and in 1952 and subsequent years at the rate of 3% per annum . Upon exchange of old bonds for new bonds, a cash payment will be made for interest accrued from January 1 , 1947 to July 1 , 1947 , at the rate of 1 % per annum.

3. Interest in arrears on the various bond issues will be computed at the rates stated in the bonds from the date of the last coupon payment to January 1 , 1947 and additional (a) Government of Italy Bonds, or (b) Italian Credit Consortium for Public Works Bonds , or (c) Italian Public Utility Credit Institute Bonds, as the case may be, will be issued in settlement thereof, except that no bonds will be issued in principal amounts of less than $ 100 . Any balance which may be due on account of accrued interest over and above a multiple of $ 100 will be discharged by an equal face amount of non-interest bearing scrip exchangeable for Government of Italy bonds or Italian Credit Consortium for Public Works bonds or Italian Public Utility Credit Institute bonds, as the case may be, in aggregate amounts of $ 100 or any multiple thereof.

4. Commencing January 1 , 1952 , the three issues of bonds will be

entitled to a cumulative sinking fund, calculated on the nominal

amount of bonds to be outstanding initially , at the following rates:

1952 to 1956 inclusive 1957 and subsequent years

1% per annum 2% per annum

such sinking fund to be applied semi-annually to the purchase of bonds at or below par or to the extent not so obtainable in redemption at par of bonds to be selected by drawings .

5. The Government of Italy is prepared to agree to set aside monthly in a segregated account with the Bank of Italy foreign exchange equivalent to % of the semi-annual service requirement for the three issues of bonds.

The respective approximate principal amount of the three proposed 3 % thirty year bonds to be outstanding (including bonds issued in settlement of all arrears of interest to January 1 , 1947) are shown in the attached tabulation , which also sets forth a schedule of the relative interest and amortization payments.

3983

No provision is being made at this time for the outstanding bonds of the General Italian Edison Electric Company, all of which bonds are owned by the International Power Securities Corporation , because

Bonds of General Italian Edison Electric
Company.

of negotiations presently being conducted by General Italian Edison

Electric Company with the International Power Securities Corpora-

tion looking toward the exchange of such bonds for stocks of the General Italian Edison Electric Company.

POringciinpaall Atboemount Outstanding

1t9o497 I% 1nterest
1t9o510 I% 2nterest
t1o9526 I)3%nterest
Sf1% )iunnkding t1o9577
I)% 3nterest Sf2% )iunnkding

RSA:- eenrqmnvuiuiicarelements

rABeomtnoidruesnd t 16ytap0teoatahrhrs %oirsfisguienal rBAoefomtnoidruesnd t y31tap1et0oatarhrs %oirsfisguienal BAomnodusnt retired py3ta6toe0aathrrhs oi%rsfisguienal

IGsosvueernment 34,2$15007

2, 0816

$

54, 7032

18, 405

4,010362

31,25048

27,814868

20, 40916

Croendsiotrtium 43,0$65825

21, 9707

$

3,58440

17, 6018

93, 5815

2,4,80136 862, 50614 2,3628483

JADIP1,1OTB9STRFAEOU47SAO7N7TEULPUEEIOASDASRNEYD

P.UCIntrusiebtldiittute

Total

75,$81,2065
32, 9208 $ 56, 8507

41,3$378685

TSeortvailce

S-Aenmniual

Annual

6,8891

73,1 8623

73,16834

57,26287

1,36113

,5726267

41,53525

6,41 4521

4,3309

9,8618

,2130979

07, ,82898

5%.35

053, 1312

7,0640894

63, 14318

738, 17027

5%9.62

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

3984

J&D1 A&01 A&01
M&S1 A&01
J&1 A&01 1A&0
J&D1 M &N1
A&01 J&D1

IDnatteersest KoI-7,1fst9ia5nl1gy dom CoM-6,1fi9½t5lsy2an CoR-6,1f9i2o5tsm2ye
1C-7, sr9oe4nd7siotrtium

MBoVP-7,1sfre9oaon5rnve2tkitgniacagense

I.PUC-7,1tns.9ruas5lbt2 1CA-7,E. sdo9lr.e5ic2atic
CP1-6,HEo9i½.6se0dmont 7L,1C-E. sol9o.e5mc2bard 1CI,-7HEso9a.5r2co M1C-7,E. 8elo9e.r5ci7dionale
7SU,1C-E. seoln9r.ei5vc6tiecde

APrmioncuinptal Outstanding%

2,4550780

4068.

01,83020

4837.

89, 1010

4837.

20, ,07004

4873.

6,56060

4275.

132, 06705

57, 0,0878 4. 9

02, ,0091

4275.

40,57030

4837.

20, ,08079

4068.

25, ,0091

4667.

85, ,07065

4275.

02, ,07048

4068.

UBOOUNNTRDSESTPANTDRINAGTED

IAtD3,11n9oret4rce6e.raersst Amount

Total

9617, 129208.

83,7514613.

6813, 183616.

346, 0,663.48

1216, 064860.

2,3120933.

392,329037.

932, 21514. 314,7610720.
430, 6,058.60

492, 2651. 710,9613058.

95, 98077.

935, 9,070.78

01,420051.

071, 00,58.74

263,142036.

26,44035.

90,107536.

03,60,530.87

67,1494585.

197, 920587.

4,2176086.

42,071084.

Aofpmporuonxtimate BNoenwds
3247, 150207.
443, 6872,.055

3985

61 STAT.] ITALY- FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS--AUG. 14, 1947

OBUC-oUONnTNRtiSDEnTSPueAAdNTDRIINAGTED

DInatteersest
EIT1-6,.C.&leon92e.r5d8cn3i 1F&A
1FI-7,.As9aruo4catt2tsotocarhy J&D1
1ME,-6.Carol92rc.e5seoc3llei M 1&
1BE7,C-sor9.n5ee4dsato 1F&A
1MET-7,.Ites9siax5tllt2aibnle N1M &

APrmioncuinptal Outstanding %

,050302 2,05030 1,0,00022 9,08030 43,*890 3,6908950

44.96 4068. 4333. 4482. 4667.

AI,1D3t1n9roet4rce6.raersst Amount
32, 8,072.62 514, 81026. 846, 54022. 4,9667085. 1,7378201. 1,47382329.

Total
2,3789074. 534, 86029. 86,4136024. 96,4160588. 253, 57201.

2,470,0558

791,6122908.

32,170605

14,73610720.

63,909850

1,47328329.

9,453890

43,80021359.

1obap.iL·Ts0rfuiomh,itrnoe7nsad0uct0sina,pnt0a0dl0ing

AAofpmporuonxtimate BNoenwds
751, 1822,.065 437,2152007. 3,044685725. 751, 1822,.065 13,48317568.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

3986

61 STAT.] ITALY- FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS- AUG. 14, 1947

3987

The Acting Secretary of State to the Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

SIR :

August 14, 1947

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your note of this date in the following terms :

[ Text same as in preceding note.]

The plan proposed by you with respect to the unrepatriated bonds of the Italian dollar issues, service on which has been suspended since 1940, satisfactorily complies with the obligations undertaken by the Government of Italy in paragraph 17 of Article IV of the "Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Italy regarding settlement of certain wartime claims and related matters".
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . ROBERT A LOVETT
Acting Secretary of State The Honorable
IVAN MATTEO LOMBARDO , Chief ofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation.

Ante, p. 3980. Ante, p. 3967.

3988

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

Between the Government of the United States of America and
the Government of Italy regarding Italian assets in the United States ofAmerica and certain claims of United States nationals.

Italian property in

U.S.

Discussions have taken place with representatives of the Govern-

ment of Italy on the question of disposition of Italian property in the

United States of America. These discussions have grown out of the

terms of the Treaty of Peace with Italy dated at Paris February 10,

p.611406S.tat . , Pt . 2, 1947 , particularly Article 79 thereof ; and out of the financial and other relations between the United States of America and Italy during

the period since the Italian Armistice . As a further step toward the bettering of relations between Italy and the United States of America, the Government of the United States of America has felt it desirable,

subject to appropriate governmental action, to renounce certain of

the rights granted to it under the terms of the Treaty of Peace, and to return and unblock property in the United States of America which has been vested or blocked by the Government of the United States of America by reason of an interest of Italy or Italian nationals. The Government of Italy, on the other hand , has recognized that in justice it should provide funds to be utilized by the Government of the United States of America in application to claims of United States nationals arising out of the war with Italy.
The Government of the United States of America and the Govern-

ment of Italy have, therefore, reached an understanding , as follows :

ARTICLE I

1. The Government of the United States of America, referring to Article 79 of the Treaty of Peace with Italy, dated at Paris February p.61140S6.tat ., Pt . 2 , 10, 1947 , nevertheless agrees, within the limits provided by law:

(a) to take the necessary steps to effect the return of property

and interests vested in or transferred to any officer or agency of the

Government of the United States of America under the Trading
40 Stat. 411. 50 U.S. C. app. 551- with the Enemy Act, as amended, which were owned by the Govern-
38. ment of Italy or Italian nationals immediately prior to such vesting

or transfer, or the net proceeds of such property or interest ; provided,

Post, p. 3991.
Release of blocked property.

however, that such return shall be subject to the conditions and
exceptions set forth in Annex I, which constitutes an integral part of this Memorandum of Understanding ;
(b) to take the necessary steps to effect the release by the United States authorities of blocked property and interests in the United States of America of Italy or Italian nationals . Such release shall be effected in accordance with conditions stated in a letter of

assurances, dated today, and addressed by the Italian authorities to

61 STAT. ] ITALY- FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-AUG. 14, 1947

3989

the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States of America, it being
understood that the unblocking procedure will actually be put into effect not later than one month from the date of this Memorandum
of Understanding ; Return of vessels,
(c) to take the necessary steps to return , in their condition at the etc. time of return, to the Government of Italy all vessels which were under Italian registry and flag on September 1 , 1939 , which were thereafter acquired by the Government of the United States of America either by purchase or by forfeiture and which are now owned by the Government of the United States of America ; provided , that in the event forfeiture proceedings against any of the vessels are dismissed , the Government of Italy agrees to discharge and save harmless the Government of the United States of America from any responsibility and liability for the processing, settlement and satisfaction of any claims against such vessels ; and
(d) to take the necessary steps , subject to all terms and conditions of authorizing legislation , to transfer to the Government of Italy surplus liberty ships of the Government of the United States of
America, to be operated by Italy for commercial uses, of a total tonnage approximately equal to the total tonnage of vessels which were under Italian registry and flag on September 1 , 1939 , and were subsequently seized in United States ports and thereafter lost while being employed in the United States war effort, provided that the selection of such surplus ships shall be by the Government of the United States of America, after consultation with the Government of Italy, and provided further that the ships shall be transferred on an as is where is basis.

2. The release or return of property and interests under the present

Article shall not prevent the assertion of rights or claims to , against

or with respect to such property and interests or the proceeds thereof ; nor (in accordance with Article 76 of the Treaty of Peace signed at Paris) shall this Memorandum of Understanding or its execution in

61 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 1401.

any way give rise to any cause of action or claim against the Govern-

ment of the United States of America , or any officer or agency thereof. 3. (a) The provisions of this Article shall in no manner impose any inRvoeynatlitoiness, eftocr. use of
obligation upon the Government of the United States of America to

return any royalty or other compensation or right to receive a royalty

or other compensation to the Government of Italy or any Italian national arising out of the use prior to December 31 , 1945 of any invention , patent or patent right in the United States held by the

Government of Italy or Italian nationals, or subject to return to the

Government of Italy or Italian nationals pursuant to this Memorandum of Understanding.

(b) The Government of Italy recognizes that the Government of the United States of America, its agencies or United States nationals , have no responsibility for the processing, settlement or satisfaction

of any claims of Italian nationals falling under the terms of this para-

graph and agrees , consistent with Paragraph 3 of Article 79 of the

Treaty of Peace, to compensate Italian nationals for any duly estab-

61 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 1407.

lished claims falling under the terms of this Article.

3990

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 Stat.

Italian payment.

(c) Except as set forth in this Memorandum of Understanding or in Annex I hereto , industrial property released or returned by the Government of the United States of America pursuant to paragraph 1 of the present Article shall be subject only to such restrictions as may otherwise be generally applicable to industrial property in the United States of America held by foreign countries or nationals of such countries .
ARTICLE II
4. The Government of Italy agrees to pay and deposit with the Government of the United States of America on or before December 31 , 1947 the sum of $ 5,000,000 (five million dollars) in currency of the United States of America , this sum to be utilized , in such manner as the Government of the United States of America may deem appropriate , in application to the claims of United States nationals arising out of the war with Italy and not otherwise provided for.

ARTICLE III

DEFINITIONS "Italian nationals." 5. For the purposes of this Memorandum of Understanding, the
term "Italian nationals" means individuals who are nationals of Italy or corporations or associations organized under the laws of Italy, at the time of the coming into force of this Memorandum of Understanding .
ARTICLE IV

CLAUSES OF THE TREATY OF PEACE

6. It is agreed that any of the clauses of the Treaty of Peace , dated

61 Stat . , Pt . 2 , p. 1245.

at Paris February 10, 1947 , to which this Memorandum of Understanding and the Annex hereto may refer, shall be considered as constituting an integral part of this Memorandum of Understanding

and the Annex hereto, as between the Governments of the United

States of America and Italy.

Valid languages.

ARTICLE V
EFFECTIVE DATE 7. This Memorandum of Understanding shall enter into force upon the day it is signed. Done at Washington in duplicate, in the English and Italian languages, both of which shall have equal validity, this 14th day of August, 1947.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: ROBERT A LOVETT
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF ITALY: LOMBARDO

61 STAT. ] ITALY- FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-AUG. 14, 1947

3991

ANNEX I

The Government of the United States of America intends to effect returns, pursuant to Article I, paragraph 1 (a) of this Memorandum

Ante, p. 3988.

of Understanding, by appropriate legislation permitting returns of

vested property to the Government of Italy and subjects or citizens

of Italy and corporations or associations organized under the laws of

Italy upon the terms and conditions generally applicable to return

of such property to others eligible for return pursuant to Section 32

of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended .

60 Stat. 50. 50 U. S. C. app.

It is understood that while the Government of the United States of $ 32, 619.

America will seek to eliminate Italian nationality as a disqualification
from eligibility for return pursuant to Section 32 (a) of the Trading
with the Enemy Act, as amended ,
Nonassumption by (a) The Government of the United States of America does not U. S. of obligation to
make returns in cerintend to assume any obligation to make returns to any of the following: tain cases.

(1 ) The Italian Fascist Party, any organization closely affiliated therewith (other than the Government of Italy) or any person who

was a member of such party or organization at any time after September 8, 1943 ; or
(2) Any person, firm or organization convicted of violation of

any of the statutes set forth in Section 34 (a ) of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended ; or
(3) Any person, firm or organization convicted of war crimes or

60 Stat. 925. 50 U.S. C.app. §§34, 620.

of having collaborated with an enemy country after September 8, 1943 ; or

(4) Any person, firm or organization indicted or officially charged with war crimes or with having collaborated with an enemy country

after September 8 , 1943 , until such person, firm or organization has been officially acquitted or cleared of such indictment or charge ; or
(5) A corporation or association organized under the laws of any country other than Italy or Trieste ; or
(6) Any individual who was at any time after December 7, 1941 , a citizen or subject of a nation other than Italy with which the United States of America has at any time since December 7 , 1941 , been at war ; or

(7) Any individual voluntarily resident at any time since December 7, 1941 , within the territory of any nation other than Italy with which the United States of America has at any time since December 7, 1941 , been at war ;
Ultimate disposition (b) Ultimate disposition of property falling under the terms of of certain property. section (a), paragraphs ( 1 )- (7) above is reserved for future decision by the Government of the United States of America, after consultation between the Governments of Italy and the United States of America ; (c) The Government of the United States of America does not intend to make returns in any case in which it deems that return would be contrary to its interests in respect of national security or antitrust or fiscal policy ; and

3992

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

(d) The Government of the United States of America does not

intend to assume any obligation to make returns of any property

which was used pursuant to an arrangement to cloak or to conceal

any property or interest within the United States of America of any

60 Stat. 51.
50U.S.C.app. §§32, 619.
Literary, artistic or industrial property.

person ineligible to receive a return under Section 32 (a) (2) of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended .
It is further understood that in the case of any literary, artistic or industrial property to be returned , the property shall remain subject

to all licenses and agreements for licenses which were granted or

entered into by the United States of America with respect to it and

which were in effect immediately prior to return ; and any rights of the Government of the United States of America to revoke any such

license or agreement for license shall not be included within the return.

61 STAT. ] ITALY-FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-AUG. 14, 1947
MEMORANDUM D'INTESA
tra il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America ed il Governo italiano relativamente ai beni italiani negli Stati Uniti d'America ed a taluni "claims" dei cittadini degli Stati Uniti d'America.
Hanno avuto luogo con i rappresentanti del Governo italiano discussioni sulla questione della destinazione dei beni italiani negli Stati Uniti d'America. Queste discussioni hanno avuto origine dalle disposizioni del Trattato di Pace con l'Italia , in data 10 febbraio 1947 ed in particolare dall'articolo #79 di tale documento , e dall'esame delle relazioni finanziarie e generali tra gli Stati Uniti d'America e l'Italia durante il periodo posteriore all'Armistizio con la Italia . Come un ulteriore passo verso il miglioramento delle relazioni tra la Italia e gli Stati Uniti d'America, il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America ha ritenuto desiderabile, sotto riserva dei provvedimenti governativi appropriati, di rinunziare a taluni dei diritti assicurati ad esso dalle clausole del Trattato di Pace, e di restituire e sbloccare i beni negli Stati Uniti d'America che siano stati sottoposti a sequestro ("vested") o siano stati bloccati dal Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America in ragione di un interesse dell'Italia o di cittadini italiani . Il Governo italiano, d'altra parte, ha riconosciuto rispondente a giustizia di dover fornire i fondi che devono essere utilizzati da parte del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America in soddisfacimento di "claims " dei cittadini degli Stati Uniti d'America sorti dalla guerra con l'Italia.
Pertanto e' stato concordato tra il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America ed il Governo italiano il seguente memorandum d'intesa.
3 ARTICOLO I
1. Il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America, in relazione e nonostante l'articolo #79 del Trattato di Pace con l'Italia, in data 10 febbraio 1947 , conviene, nei limiti fissati dalla legge :
(a) di adottare le misure necessarie per effettuare la restituzione dei beni e degli interessi posti sotto sequestro ("vested " ) o trasferiti a qualsiasi funzionario o organo del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America in base al "Trading with the Enemy Act" cosi' come emendato, appartenenti all'Italia o a cittadini italiani nel periodo immediatamente precedente tale sequestro o trasferimento, ovvero di restituire il ricavo netto di tali beni o interessi ; purche', tuttavia, tale restituzione sia subordinata alle condizioni e alle eccezioni enunciate nell'Annesso I, che costituisce una parte integrante di questo memorandum d'intesa ;
(b) di adottare le misure necessarie per procedere al rilascio , da parte delle Autorita ' degli Stati Uniti d'America dei beni e degli interessi, bloccati negli Stati Uniti d'America, dell'Italia o dei cittadini italiani. Tale rilascio dovra' essere effettuato in conformita' alle condizioni stabilite in una lettera di assicurazione in data odierna indirizzata dalle Autorita' italiane al Segretario del Tesoro degli Stati Uniti d'America , essendo inteso che la procedura di sblocco sara' effettivamente messa in atto non piu ' tardi di un mese dalla data del presente memorandum d'intesa ;

3993

3994

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
(c) di adottare le misure necessarie per restituire al Governo italiano , nello stato in cui si trovano al momento della restituzione tutte le navi sotto registro e bandiera italiani al I settembre 1939 che furono successivamente acquisite dal Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America sia mediante compera, sia mediante confisca e che siano attualmente in possesso del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America purche' nel caso in cui le cause di confisca contro una qualsiasi delle navi venissero abbandonate, il Governo italiano convenga di esonerare e ritenere indenne il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America, da qualsiasi responsabilita' in ordine all'accertamento , al regolamento e al soddisfacimento di qualsiasi " claim" contro tali navi ;
(d) di adottare le misure necessarie , subordinatamente a ogni termine e condizione contenuta nelle disposizioni di legge relative, per trasferire al Governo italiano navi Liberty " surplus " del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America , da usarsi dall'Italia per usi commerciali, per un tonnellaggio complessivo approssimativamente uguale al tonnellaggio complessivo delle navi sotto registro e bandiera italiani al I settembre 1939 , e che furono successivamente sequestrate nei porti degli Stati Uniti d'America e poi perdute mentre erano impiegate nello sforzo bellico degli Stati Uniti d'America , purche ' la scelta di tali navi " surplus " venga effettuata da parte del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America , dopo consultazione con il Governo italiano e purche' inoltre tali navi vengano trasferite sulla base "dove si trovano e nello stato in cui si trovano".
2. Il rilascio o la restituzione dei beni e degli interessi disposti dal presente articolo non potranno impedire di far valere in giudizio i diritti o i " claims" circa, contro , o relativamente , tali beni e interessi o i loro ricavati , ne ' il presente memorandum d'intesa o la sua esecuzione potranno in qualsiasi modo (in conformita ' dell'articolo #76 del Trattato di Pace firmato a Parigi) dare origine a qualsiasi giudizio o "claim" contro gli Stati Uniti d'America o loro funzionari o organi.
3. (a) Le disposizioni di questo articolo non potranno in alcun modo imporre al Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America l'obbligo di restituire i canoni o altri compensi o diritti a ricevere canoni o altri compensi dovuti al Governo italiano o a cittadini italiani per uso anteriore al 31 dicembre 1945, di invenzioni , brevetti o diritti di brevetto posseduti negli Stati Uniti d'America dal Governo italiano o da cittadini italiani o soggetti a restituzione al Governo italiano o a cittadini italiani in base al presente memorandum d'intesa ;
(b) Il Governo italiano riconosce che il Governo degli Stati Uniti di America ed i loro organi o cittadini , non hanno responsabilita' ai fini dell'accertamento , della sistemazione o del regolamento dei "claims" di cittadini italiani che cadono sotto le disposizioni del presente paragrafo e conviene, in conformita' al paragrafo 3 dell'articolo 79 del Trattato di Pace, d'indennizzare i cittadini italiani per i " claims " dovutamente fondati che cadono sotto le disposizioni del presente articolo .
(c) Salvo quanto disposto nel presente memorandum d'intesa o nell'Annesso I ad esso, i diritti di proprieta' industriale rilasciati o restituiti dal Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America in conformita ' al

61 STAT. ] ITALY-FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-AUG. 14, 1947
paragrafo 1 del presente articolo, saranno sottoposti soltanto a quelle restrizioni che siano altrimenti applicabili in via generale negli Stati Uniti d'America ai diritti di proprieta' industriale appartenenti a Paesi esteri o a cittadini di tali Paesi.
ARTICOLO II
4. Il Governo Italiano si impegna a pagare e a depositare presso il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America il o prima del 31 dicembre 1947, la somma di $ 5.000.000 (cinque milioni di dollari) in valuta degli Stati Uniti d'America, dovendo questa somma essere utilizzata, nel modo che il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America ritenga conveniente , per il regolamento dei " claims" dei cittadini degli Stati Uniti d'America sorti a causa della guerra con l'Italia e per i quali non sia stato altrimenti disposto.
ARTICOLO III
DEFINIZIONI
5. Ai fini di questo memorandum d'intesa , l'espressione " cittadini italiani" indica le persone aventi nazionalita ' italiana o le Societa' ed Associazioni costituite secondo le leggi italiane, al momento della entrata in vigore del presente memorandum d'intesa .
ARTICOLO IV
Clausole del Trattato di Pace
6. E' inteso che qualsiasi delle clausole del Trattato di Pace con l'Italia, firmato a Parigi il 10 febbraio 1947 , alle quali questo memorandum d'intesa e l'annesso ad esso si riferiscono , sara' considerata come parte integrante di questo memorandum d'intesa e dell'annesso ad esso, per cio ' che concerne i rapporti fra i Governi degli Stati Uniti d'America e d'Italia.
ARTICOLO V
Data effettiva.
7. Le disposizioni di questo memorandum d'intesa entreranno in vigore immediatamente all'atto della firma .
Il presente documento viene redatto in Washington in due testi, rispettivamente in lingua inglese ed in lingua italiana, aventi ambedue eguale valore alla data del 14 Agosto 1947.
PER IL GOVERNO DEGLI STATI UNITI D'AMERICA : ROBERT A LOVETT.
PER IL GOVERNO ITALIANO : LOMBARDO

3995

3996

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
ANNESSO I
Il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America intende procedere alla restituzione al Governo italiano ed ai sudditi o cittadini italiani e alle Societa' o Associazioni costituite secondo le leggi italiane, in esecuzione dell'articolo I paragrafo 1 (a) di questo memorandum d'intesa , mediante opportuni provvedimenti di legge atti a consentire la restituzione dei beni posti sotto sequestro ("vested " ) , in base alle disposizioni ed alle condizioni generalmente applicabili alla restituzione di detti beni alle altre persone ammesse alla restituzione in virtu' della sezione 32 del "Trading with the Enemy Act" , cosi ' come emendato.
E' inteso che mentre il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America dovra' cercare di eliminare la nazionalita' italiana come causa di esclusione dall'ammissione alla restituzione dei beni prevista dalla sezione 32 (a) del "Trading with the Enemy Act ", cosi ' come emendato :
(a) Il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America non intende assumere alcun obbligo di effettuare la restituzione alle seguenti persone o enti:
1 ) Partito Fascista Italiano ed organizzazioni strettamente affiliate allo stesso (diverse dal Governo italiano) o a persone che siano state membri di tale partito o organizzazione, in qualsiasi periodo successivo all'8 settembre 1943 ; o
2 ) Qualsiasi persona, ditta o organizzazione condannata per violazione di una delle disposizioni di cui alla sezione 34 (a) del "Trading with the Enemy Act", cosi' come emendato ; o
3) Qualsiasi persona, ditta o organizzazione condannata per crimini di guerra o per avere collaborato con un Paese nemico dopo 1'8 settembre 1943 ; o
4) Qualsiasi persona, ditta o organizzazione accusata o ufficialmente imputata di crimini di guerra o di collaborazione con un Paese nemico dopo l'8 settembre 1943 , fino a quando tale persona, ditta o organizzazione non sia stata ufficialmente assolta o discolpata da tale accusa o imputazione ; o
5) Le Societa' o Associazioni costituite secondo le leggi di qualsiasi Paese diverso dall'Italia o da Trieste ; o
6) Qualsiasi persona che sia stata in qualsiasi momento dopo il 7 dicembre 1941 , cittadino o suddito di uno stato diverso dall'Italia con il quale gli Stati Uniti d'America siano stati in guerra in qualsiasi momento dopo il 7 dicembre 1941 ; o
7) Qualsiasi persona che abbia avuto volontariamente la propria residenza in qualsiasi periodo dopo il 7 dicembre 1941 nel territorio di qualsiasi Stato diverso dall'Italia con il quale gli Stati Uniti d'America siano stati in guerra in qualsiasi momento dopo il 7 dicembre 1941 ;
(b) La destinazione definitiva dei beni che cadono sotto i termini della precedente sezione ( a) , paragrafi ( 1 )- (7) , e' riservata alle decisioni che potranno essere prese in avvenire dal Governo degli

61 STAT. ] ITALY-FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-AUG. 14, 1947
Stati Uniti d'America, dopo consultazione tra i Governi dell'Italia e degli Stati Uniti d'America ;
(c) Il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America non intende di procedere a restituzioni in qualsiasi caso in cui essi ritengano che la restituzione sarebbe contraria ai propri interessi per cio' che riguarda la sicurezza nazionale o la politica anti-trust o la politica fiscale ; e
(d) Il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America non intende assumere alcun obbligo di procedere a restituzioni di beni che siano stati usati in base ad un accordo tendente a mascherare o nascondere beni o interessi negli Stati Uniti d'America di persone non ammesse a ricevere la restituzione dei beni a norma della sezione 32a (2 ) del "Trading with the Enemy Act" , cosi' come emendato .
E' inteso inoltre che i diritti di proprieta' letteraria , artistica o industriale, che debbono essere restituiti , resteranno soggetti a tutte le licenze e convenzioni sulle licenze che siano state concesse o registrate negli Stati Uniti d'America relativamente a questi diritti e che fossero in vigore immediatamente prima della restituzione ; non sara' compresa in questa restituzione la facolta'degli Stati Uniti d'America di revocare tali licenze o convenzioni sulle licenze .

3997

95347°-50- PT. IV- -42

3998 Ante, p. 3988.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

The Chief ofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation to the Acting Secretary of State

ITALIAN EMBASSY WASHINGTON, D. C.

SIR :

Italian Economic and Financial Delegation AUGUST 14, 1947

Reference is made to the " Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the United States of America and the Government

of Italy regarding certain assets in the United States of America and certain claims of United States nationals", signed this date.
In connection with the return to Italy and Italian nationals of property vested in the Office of Alien Property of the Department of Justice of the United States of America, I take this opportunity to

inform you that the Government of Italy has designated the Italian Ministry of Treasury as its agency to certify claims for the return of such property.
LOMBARDO

The Honorable

Chief ofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

ROBERT A. LOVETT, Acting Secretary of State.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

SIR:

August 14, 1947

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your note of this date in the following terms:

[Text same as in preceding note. ]

I will immediately bring your note to the attention of the Office of Alien Property, Department of Justice, which will communicate directly with the Italian Ministry of Treasury concerning the implementation of the certification agreement.
ROBERT A LOVETT

The Honorable

Acting Secretary of State

IVAN MATTEO LOMBARDO,

Chief ofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation.

61 STAT.] ITALY-FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-AUG. 14, 1947

3999

The Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation to the Acting Secretary of State
ITALIAN EMBASSY WASHINGTON, D. C. Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

SIR:

AUGUST 14, 1947

In connection with the "Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the United States of America and the Government

of Italy regarding Italian assets in the United States of America and certain claims of United States nationals" , signed this date, I wish to

Ante, p. 3988.

bring to your attention the question of the exclusion of Italy from the benefits of the Boykin Act, Public Law 690, 1946 , 79th Congress.

60 Stat. 940. 35 U. S. C. §§ 101-

Section XIV of this Act specifically excludes from its benefits the 11640 Stat. 944. citizens of any country with which the United States of America has 35 U. S. C. § 113.

been at war. In this connection , I wish to refer to the terms of Annex XV of the Italian Treaty of Peace relating to Industrial, Literary and

61 Stat., Pt.2, p.1472.

Artistic Property. My Government believes that it would be con-

sistent with the spirit of Annex XV for the Government of the United

States of America to amend the Boykin Act so as to authorize the

granting of reciprocal rights by the United States of America to Italy and Italian nationals.

I am pleased to be in a position to advise you that at the present time Italy grants to the United States of America and its nationals the rights and privileges referred to in Annex XV. In this connection reference is made to Article I of the Italian Law of September 5 , 1946,

No. 123 , which grants to United States nationals rights with respect to their patents in Italy which are denied to Italian nationals with respect to their patents in the United States of America.
In view of the above circumstances, I should appreciate it if you would advise me of the policy and intentions of the Government of the United States of America in this matter.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . LOMBARDO

The Honorable ROBERT A. LOVETT,

Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

Acting Secretary of State.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

SIR :

August 14, 1947

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your note of this date in the following terms:

[Text same as in preceding note . ]

4000

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 794.

I am pleased to be able to inform you that Public Law 380 , a copy of which is attached hereto , which was recently enacted by the Congress , amends the Boykin Act by removing present restrictions against the enjoyment by Italy and Italian nationals of the rights granted by the Act, on a finding by the Commission on Patents that Italy grants. such rights to the United States of America and its nationals .
It is noted that in your note you state that the Government of Italy grants substantially such rights to the United States of America and its nationals .
Accept, Sir , the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . ROBERT A LOVETT
Acting Secretary of State
Enclosure : Public Law 380
The Honorable IVAN MATTEO LOMBARDO, Chief ofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation.

Ante, p. 3988.

The Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation to the Acting Secretary of State

ITALIAN EMBASSY WASHINGTON, D. C.
Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

SIR:

AUGUST 14, 1947

I have the honor to refer to the " Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the United States of America and the

Government of Italy regarding Italian assets in the United States of America and certain claims of United States nationals", signed this date.

In consideration of the undertakings by the Government of the United States of America , provided therein, dealing with the question of vessels which were under Italian registry and flag on September 1 , 1939, I am authorized , on behalf of my Government, to enter into the following undertakings :
Notwithstanding the fact that the return of the passenger vessels Conte Grande and Conte Biancamano supersedes the operating agreement relating to these vessels concluded between the Government of Italy and the United States Maritime Commission, dated May 2 , 1947,[1] in implementation of an understanding set forth in an aide memoire of January 8, 1947 [ 1] from the Department of State to the Embassy of Italy in Washington , relating to these vessels and also to the operation of the Italian passenger vessels Saturnia and Vulcania, the Government of Italy agrees that, for the period up to and including

1 [Not printed.]

61 STAT. ] ITALY- FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-AUG. 14, 1947

December 31 , 1949 , or for such time during that period that the vessels

Saturnia and Vulcania are under Italian ownership and control , their

operation will be continued subject to the rights and privileges of the Government of the United States of America as set forth in the afore-

said aide memoire of January 8, 1947 , and under arrangements sub-

stantially similar to those currently applying to the M. V. Saturnia, subject to such modifications to these arrangements as may be agreed

to in the light of existing conditions .

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . LOMBARDO

The Honorable

Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

ROBERT A. LOVETT,

Acting Secretary of State.

4001

The Acting Secretary of State to the Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

SIR :

August 14, 1947

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your note of this date,

in the following terms :

[Text same as in preceding note.]
Operation of SaturOn behalf of my Government, I am pleased to accept the under- nia and Vulcania.
takings of the Government of Italy, as set forth in your note, with

reference to the operation of the Italian passenger vessels Saturnia

and Vulcania. At such time as your Government may wish to discuss

modifications to the existing arrangements, appropriate officials of this

Government will be prepared to enter into the necessary discussions. Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

ROBERT A LOVETT

The Honorable IVAN MATTEO LOMBARDO,

Acting Secretary of State

Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Chief ofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

SIR :

August 14, 1947

I have the honor to refer to the "Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the United States of America and the

4002

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Ante, p. 3988.
Ante, p. 3991. Ante, p. 3992.

Government of Italy regarding Italian assets in the United States of America and certain claims of United States nationals" , signed this date.
Questions have been raised by you concerning : (1 ) the scope of paragraph (a) (ii) of Annex I to the memorandum referred to above ;
(2) the meaning of the final (unnumbered) paragraph of Annex I ; and

(3 ) whether, with respect to the revocable, royalty-free, nonexclusive licenses granted by the United States of America, the Government of the United States of America will object if, after the return of such properties , the owners may negotiate with the licensees with a view to altering the terms of the licenses granted to them by the Government of the United States of America.

I am in receipt of the following letter from Mr. David L. Bazelon, Assistant Attorney General, Director of Alien Property, dated August 12 , 1947 :

Ante, p. 3991.
60 Stat. 925. 50 U. S. C. app. §§ 34, 620. 50 U. S. C. §§ 191194; 18 U. S. C. § 502.
Ante, p. 3992. Ante, p. 3988.

"My advisors have informed me that during the July 2, 1947 conference on the documents implementing and/or supplementing the Treaty of Peace with Italy, members of the Italian delegation raised several questions regarding the meaning and scope of certain sections of Annex I of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Italy regarding Italian assets in the United States and certain claims of United States nationals . Since the questions raised relate to vested property, representatives of the Department of State have asked for my comments and observations .
"The members of the Italian delegation have inquired as to the scope of paragraph (a) (2) of Annex I mentioned above . The paragraph under reference provides that the United States does not intend to assume any obligation to make returns to any person, firm , or organization convicted of violation of any of the statutes set forth in Section 34 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended . The statutes (Title II and III of the Act of June 15, 1917 , 40 Stat . 217 , 220 , 221 , as amended ) prohibiting commission of injury to vessels on the high seas or within the jurisdiction of the United States are not among the statutes enumerated in Section 34 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended . Hence, acts of sabotage committed on Italian vessels which were subsequently vested by the United States Alien Property Custodian will not in themselves be grounds for refusal to return the interest acquired in such vessels by vesting action.
"The members of the Italian delegation have also raised questions with respect to the meaning of the final (unnumbered) paragraph of Annex I. The paragraph under reference provides that the United States intends to return, pursuant to the provisions of Article I, paragraph 1 ( a) of the Memorandum of Understanding mentioned above, literary, artistic or industrial property vested

61 STAT.] ITALY-FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-AUG. 14, 1947

4003

by the United States Alien Property Custodian from the Italian Government or from Italian nationals. Literary, artistic or

industrial property so returned will remain subject to all licenses

and agreements for licenses granted or entered into by the United

States and which are in effect prior to the return of such properties. "It is the intention to return the proceeds from licenses and
agreements for licenses granted or entered into by the United

Proceeds licenses.

from

States with respect to literary and artistic property. Such proceeds

will be subject to return pursuant to Article I, paragraph 1 (a) , of the Memorandum of Understanding. With respect to industrial

Ante, p. 3988.

property where the United States has granted revocable, royalty-

free, non-exclusive licenses it is the intention of the United States

not to issue additional similar licenses or to reissue any such licenses which have been cancelled or revoked .

"With respect to the revocable, royalty-free, non-exclusive licenses granted by the United States, members of the Italian delegation have inquired whether the United States Government will object if, after the return of such properties, the owners negotiate with the licensees with a view to altering the terms of the licenses granted to them by the United States. It is not the intention of the United States to interpose any objection to such negotiations , provided that such negotiations and any changes in the terms of the licenses are in conformity with all laws of the United States, including the anti-trust laws. Also , it must be clearly understood that the United States assumes no obligations with respect to these negotiations and the licensees are in no way obligated to negotiate any changes in the terms of the licenses granted to them by the United States."

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . ROBERT A LOVETT
Acting Secretary of State The Honorable
IVAN MATTEO LOMBARDO , Chief ofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation.

The Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation to the Acting Secretary of State
ITALIAN EMBASSY WASHINGTON , D. C. Italian Economic and Financial Delegation
AUGUST 14, 1947 SIR :
I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your note of this date, in the following terms:
[Text same as in preceding note. ]

4004

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
I appreciate very much the information set forth in your note. LOMBARDO
Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation
The Honorable ROBERT A. Lovett, Acting Secretary of State.

59 Stat. 1731.

The Chief ofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation to the Acting Secretary of State
ITALIAN EMBASSY WASHINGTON, D. C. Italian Economic and Financial Delegation

SIR :

AUGUST 14, 1947

I wish to express my satisfaction at the successful conclusion of discussions with the Government of the United States of America

concerning commercial policy and related matters of mutual interest in furthering the economic relations between the Governments of the United States of America and Italy.
I am authorized to inform you that my Government agrees to the following understandings which have resulted from these discussions :

1. The two Governments affirm their continued support of the principles set forth in the notes exchanged between them December 6 , 1945 , and reiterate their desire to achieve the elimination of all forms of discriminatory treatment in international commerce and the reduction of tariffs and other trade barriers.
2. The two Governments having already entered into preliminary discussions concerning a comprehensive treaty of friendship , commerce and navigation which will regulate to their mutual satisfaction economic relations between the two countries, express their intention to enter into negotiations looking toward the conclusion of such a treaty this year. Meanwhile, the two Governments will continue to accord to articles the growth, produce or manufacture of the other, unconditional most-favored-nation treatment with respect to customs duties, the rules and formalities of customs, and the taxation, sale, distribution, and use within its territory of such articles .

I am also authorized , on behalf of my Government, to advise you that the Government of Italy has been following with deep interest the steps being taken to form an international trade organization of the United Nations and is in full agreement on the fundamental principles of the proposed charter for such an organization .

61 STAT.] ITALY-FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-AUG. 14, 1947
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . LOMBARDO
Chief ofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation
The Honorable ROBERT A. LOVETT, Acting Secretary of State.
The Acting Secretary of State to the Chief of the Italian Economic and Financial Delegation
DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON August 14, 1947
Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your note of this date
in the following terms :
[Text same as in preceding note .] On behalf of my Government, I wish to confirm to you the agreements set forth in your note. I also wish to express my Government's appreciation for the views you have stated , on behalf of your Government, with respect to the International Trade Organization . Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
ROBERT A LOVETT Acting Secretary of State The Honorable IVAN MATTEO LOMBARDO , Chief ofthe Italian Economic and Financial Delegation.

4005

4006

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

April 26, May 15, 1946
[T. I. A. S. 1760]

Agreement between the United States of America and Chile respecting a military aviation mission to Chile, renewing and modifying an agreement ofApril 23, 1940, as renewed and modified. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington April 26 and May 15, 1946 ; entered into force May 15, 1946.
The Chilean Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

57 Stat. 927. 54 Stat. 2282.
57 Stat. 926. 54 Stat. 2283.

EMBAJADA DE CHILE WASHINGTON

N° 802/129

26 April 1946

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to my note of April 14, 1943 and Your Excellency's reply thereto of June 14, 1943 ( 825.248 ) [ 1 ] concerning the renewal of the Agreement entered into on April 23, 1940 between the Government of the United States and the Republic of Chile, providing for a United States Military Aviation Mission to Chile.

I beg leave to request of Your Excellency that this Agreement be renewed again for a period of three years, effective from April 23, 1946, on the same conditions and terms, including the modifications in my note of November 27, 1942 and the stipulations contained in Your Excellency's note of December 23, 1942 ; with the additional modification that the Mission be composed of four members instead of three as provided in Title II, Article 6 of the Agreement.
In view of the excellent service rendered, my Government would find it most agreeable if four of the present members of the Mission might be reassigned under the renewed Agreement. They are the following :

Chief of the Mission : Lieutenant Colonel Wilson T. Jones, who by virtue of long residence in Chile is thoroughly acquainted with the problems of the Chilean Air Force.

Second Member : Captain Royce W. Priest, who presently is Pilot and Engineer of the Mission's planes, specializing in maintenance and supplies and who enjoys the benefits of an extensive training as well as valuable war experience.
Third Member : Captain James H. Richards, specializing in Armaments, who has very successfully carried out his work in this field.

Fourth Member : Chief Warrant Officer Robert N. Rader, specializing
in radio communications, who is performing efficient work of instruction and technical advice.

[Not printed . ]

Apr. 26, 1946 61 STAT. ] CHILE-MILITARY AVIATION MISSION May 15, 1946

4007

I should appreciate it most highly if Your Excellency would be good enough to inform me, as soon as convenient, if it would be agreeable to the Government of the United States to renew the referred to Agreement as above indicated.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
MARCIAL MORA M

54 Stat. 2282.

His Excellency DEAN ACHESON The Acting Secretary of State Washington 25, D. C.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Chilean Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

EXCELLENCY :

May 15, 1946

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's note no. 802/129 of April 26, 1946 in which you request the renewal of the Agreement entered into April 23, 1940, between the Government of the United States of America and the Republic of Chile and renewed by an exchange of notes dated November 27 and December 23, 1942 and April 14 , 1943 respectively.
I note that Your Excellency's Government desires to renew the Agreement for a period of three years, the renewal to be effective as of April 23, 1946.
Therefore, it is the understanding of this Government that the Agreement is renewed for a period of three years, effective from April 23, 1946, on the same terms and conditions as the Agreement under reference, including the modifications proposed in the Embassy's note of November 27, 1942 and the stipulation contained in the Department's note of December 23, 1942, also the additional modifications contained in Your Excellency's note under reference that the Mission be composed of four members , notwithstanding the provision of Title II, Article 6 of the basic Agreement.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

For the Acting Secretary of State : SPRUILLE BRADEN

His Excellency Senor Don MARCIAL MORA, Ambassador of Chile.

54 Stat. 2282. 57 Stat. 925.
Effective date. 54 Stat. 2282. 57 Stat. 925, 926. 54 Stat. 2283.

4008

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STat.

May 8, July 31 , 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1766]

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting the transfer and maintenance of radio range and SCS 51 equipment. Effected by exchange of notes signed at London May 8 and July 31 , 1946; entered into force July 31 , 1946.

The American Ambassador to the British Minister of Civil Aviation

1, GROSVENOR SQUARE , LONDON, W. 1., May 8, 1946
DEAR LORD WINSTER : Pursuant to recent discussions, it is my understanding that repre-
sentatives of the Ministry of Civil Aviation and representatives of the United States have reached agreement with regard to the transfer to the United Kingdom Government of certain air navigational and operational facilities and continued operation and maintenance of these facilities by the United Kingdom Government. The United States trans-Atlantic airlines will be materially assisted by the continued operation of these facilities. The air navigational and operational aids involved are among those which were installed or provided for use in the United Kingdom by the United States Armed Forces during the war, and have become or are about to become surplus to the needs of the United States Armed Forces. The understanding which has been reached and which I desire to confirm by this letter is as follows :
1. The transfer would apply to the following installations :
(a) The radio ranges and all facilities now owned by the United States which are necessary to their operation located at Prestwick, Valley, St. Mawgan, Northolt, and Stornaway, and a range and necessary facilities to be moved by the United States to Heathrow. It is the intention of the United States, prior to transfer, to convert the radio range operated at Stornaway to a beacon, and to move the radio range now located at Bovingdon, or such other range as the United States may determine, to Heathrow.
(b) Four complete SCS 51 installations now owned by the United States and located at Prestwick, Valley, St. Mawgan, and one additional such installation which it is the intention of the United States to move to Heathrow.
2. The United States will declare the above described installations surplus to the needs of the United States Armed Forces and will transfer them to the possession of the United Kingdom Government on or before May 31 , 1946, or as soon thereafter as they may be placed

61 STAT. ]

May 8, 1946 UNITED KINGDOM-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES-
July 31, 1946

4009

by the United States in operable condition. Transfer of the installations will take place under the terms of the "Agreement Relating to

United States Army and Navy Surplus Installations in the United

Kingdom", accepted by the governments of the United States and of the United Kingdom in Washington on March 26, [1] 1946, and pur-

60 Stat. 1561.

suant to the procedures agreed to by the respective governments for the execution of that Agreement.
3. The United States will supply, at time of transfer of possession of installations or at such other times as may be convenient, maintenance parts and expendable supplies scheduled on United States Army provisioning scales sufficient for operation of the above described installations for a period of one year from May 31 , 1946, together with standard operation and maintenance manuals or instructions for such installations. Such maintenance parts, supplies and manuals will be transferred under the terms of the agreement relating

Maintenance sup. plies and manuals.

to United States Army and Navy surplus property referred to in
paragraph 2 above, and in accordance with procedures established therunder .

The United States will, prior to May 31, 1946, within limits of personnel available to the United States Armed Forces, render such as-

sistance, instructions and advice as the Ministry of Civil Aviation may require for familiarization of its personnel in the operation and maintenance of the installations.
4. The United Kingdom Government, through the Ministry of Civil Aviation, will make every effort to take over operation and mainte-

Operationand maintenance by U. K.
Government.

nance of the above described ranges at Northolt and Prestwick as of

May 31, 1946 , and of the other above described installations as soon

as is possible, provided that the United Kingdom Government shall

not be under any obligation to operate and maintain any of the said

installations unless the United States Government shall have placed

them in a serviceable condition , and provided further that the United Kingdom Government shall not be under any obligation to operate

simultaneously the range at Northolt and the range to be moved to Heathrow.
5. The United Kingdom Government will continue operation of the

Post, p. 4010.

above described installations, at present standards of operation and

without interruption and, in the case of the radio ranges, at no less

than 150 watts power until such time as the aeronautical authorities

of the United Kingdom Government after consultation with the United

States and other governments concerned determine that the installations may be modified or discontinued . The United Kingdom Government will make periodic flight checks of operation of the installations in accordance with standard practice.
The United Kingdom Government, in consultation with the United

Periodic flight checks of operation, etc.
Post, p. 4011.

States and other countries involved, will give consideration to the operation of a range at Heathrow in lieu of a range at Northolt if

experience shows this to be desirable. It is understood that only one

range in the London area will be operated.

¹ [The correct date is "Mar. 27".]

4010

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

6. This understanding is entered into without prejudice to transfer, operation, maintenance or installation of any additional aids to civilian aviation which the United States may deem to be desirable in the United Kingdom .

If you will indicate your acceptance of this understanding, I think that we may consider it to be effective as of the date of your acceptance.

Sincerely,

W. A. HARRIMAN

The Rt. Honorable LORD WINSTER, J. P.,

Minister of Civil Aviation,

Ariel House, The Strand.

Ante, p. 4009.

The British Minister of Civil Aviation to the American Ambassador

MY DEAR AMBASSADOR,

MINISTRY OF CIVIL AVIATION, ARIEL HOUSE, STRAND,
LONDON, W.C.2. 31st July, 1946.

I am sorry that my reply has been so long delayed to your letter of 8th May, in regard to the transfer to the United Kingdom Government of certain air navigational and operational facilities which were installed in the United Kingdom by the United States Armed Forces during the war. The subject of the provision or maintenance of such types of navigational aids has recently been under discussion in P.I.C.A.O. , particularly at the Regional Conferences which have been held at Dublin and Paris, and I have been anxious that our arrange-

ments should conform to the general agreements that have been reached .

2. For convenience of reference I am attaching copies of the relevant recommendations from the P.I.C.A.O. documents.

3. In general, the position is that the United Kingdom, in common with other countries, have undertaken to retain or install the "P.I.C.A.O. Standard Instrument Landing System" at international airports ; and so far as existing radio ranges are concerned, to retain on low power the ranges used for approach purposes at such airports until the latter are equipped with the P.I.C.A.O. Instrument Landing System and the aircraft concerned are equipped to use it. Accordingly I suggest that the first paragraph in Section 5 of your letter should be re-worded on the following lines :-

"The U.K. Government will continue operation of the above described installations in accordance with the requirements of international civil aviation until such time as the aerodromes concerned can be equipped with alternative P.I.C.A.O. Instrument Landing Systems as agreed at the P.I.C.A.O. North Atlantic and European and Mediterranean Regional Conferences in Dublin and Paris. The

61 STAT.]

UNITED KINGDOM-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES-

May 8, 1946 July 31 , 1946

4011

U.K. Government will make periodic flight checks of operation of the installations in accordance with standard practice. "
4. As regards the second paragraph in Section 5, the question of the operation of a range at the London Airport is now under examination in connection with the determination of the system of air traffic control to be operated in the region. If a range at that Airport is found to be desirable, it will be operated in lieu of the range at Northolt. In that event the range at Northolt could be moved and I would suggest that, pending a decision on this matter, the range at Bovingdon should be left in situ . I am asking my technical officers to keep in touch with your Civil Air Attache on this matter.
5. The references in para. 1 ( a ) and ( b ) of your letter to the transfer of equipment "to Heathrow" should , of course, be qualified accordingly. 6. Subject to the above, I am very glad to confirm the understanding as set out in your letter.
Yours sincerely, WINSTER.
The Honourable W. A. HARRIMAN,
Embassy of the United States of America, Grosvenor Square, London, S.W.1.

Ante, p. 4009. Ante, p. 4008.

DOC.D.363 ATC/D. 60
24/3/46.
Extract of North Atlantic Route Service Conference, Dublin, 1946.

5.2.8. Requirements at Aerodromes designated as terminals or alternates for the North Atlantic :

The Committee has recommended the following :-

5.2.8.1.

That Approach and Aerodrome Controls be maintained or provided at such aerodromes.

5.2.8.2.

That an instrument landing system as suggested by the Com Committee be a requirement at such aerodromes. This system consists of a runway localizer and glide path transmitter, together with either 2 or 3 fan markers, or one fan marker and either one or two M/F non- directional radio beacons. The ATC Committee consider, however, that the provision and location of the fan markers or non-directional

beacons for air traffic control purposes should be the subject of continuing study with the object of obtaining a standard system.

5.2.8.3.

That existing M/F radio ranges now available or which may be made available for Approach Control at these Aerodromes should be retained in use until some such system as that

4012

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
described in the preceding paragraph is available, subject to reduction in power and adjustment of frequency where necessary in the European region.
DOC.9.232 GEN. P. 38 (corrected)
24/5/46.
Extract from Report of the P.I.C.A.O. European-Mediterranean Air Navigation Meeting held in Paris between 24th April and 15th May.
3. Radio aids to approach and landing and standardisation of methods of approach and landing.
The Conference endorses the recommendations made at the DUBLIN Conference concerning the adoption as the future international standard of a system equivalent to Scs 51 , comprising VHF runway localizer, UHF Glide Path and boundary marker and other marker beacons , with the addition as an optional installation, of one or more low powered L. F../M.F. marker beacons.
In addition the Conference recommends that :
(a) The PICAO standards I.L.S. should be installed as rapidly as possible at all international airports and that the military version of the standard I.L.S. should be retained where it already exists.
(b) S.B.A. ( Lorenz ) equipment should be installed or retained at airports used by aircraft not fitted with the airborne equipment of the PICAO Standard system .
(c) Ground D/F or radio range equipment used for approach and landing purposes, should be installed or retained at airports used by aircraft not fitted with airborne equipment of either SBA or the PICAO standard system.
(d ) V.H.F.D.F. equipment should be installed as soon as possible on the approach lines of international airports.

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-CIVIL AVIATION MISSION-OCT. 24, 27, 1947

4013

Agreement between the United States of America and Ecuador respecting a civil aviation mission to Ecuador. Effected by exchange of notes
signed at Quito October 24 and 27, 1947; entered into force October 27, 1947.

October 24, 27, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1774]

The American Ambassador to the Ecuadoran Ministerfor Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 372 EXCELLENCY :

Quito, October 24, 1947

I have the honor to refer to my conversation with Your Excellency yesterday, at which time I presented to you certain members of the Mission sent from the United States as part of the program of the Interdepartmental Committee of Scientific and Cultural Cooperation , which is at present in Quito, primarily for the purpose of arranging for the exchange of civil aviation technicians between our respective countries. Your Excellency was so kind as to authorize me and the Mission above referred to, to enter into preliminary conversations directly with the Minister of National Defense in order to arrive at a prompt understanding as to what is needed by Ecuador for the development of civil aviation in this country and the extent to which Ecuador would be able to participate in financing such a program .

Your Excellency will remember that the Ecuadoran Ambassador in Washington transmitted a note dated April 8 , 1947 [ ' ] to the Department of State, indicating that Ecuador desires the services of one or more civil aviation technical experts . It was desired that these technicians should come to Ecuador for cretain specific purposes to be

defined by the Ecuadoran Direction of Civil Aviation. I informed the Minister of National Defense this morning that the
United States is now prepared to send such technical experts to Ecuador as may be requested by this country , and that the terms and conditions under which this service may be provided have been set out in a memorandum containing fourteen points, which is attached to this note. The Minister has been informed of these general principles and has indicated that they are acceptable . He also has indicated that it will be possible for Ecuador to participate to the extent of partially reimbursing the United States at the rate of $2,000 per year per expert, for its expenses in connection with this Mission ,

funds which will be provided and paid in accordance with the principles already mentioned . (See point no. 7 in the attached memorandum) .
Your Excellency is informed further that for budgetary reasons it is necessary to have a general commitment of the Republic of Ecuador to this program, in order to obligate funds which are now available
1' [Not printed. ] 95347°-50- PT. IV- -43

4014

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

in the United States for the purpose of sending the individuals desired by the Republic of Ecuador . Unless the obligation of these funds is made at an early date, they may revert to the Treasury and become

unavailable for this purpose . In view of the situation just described, it would be greatly appreciated if Your Excellency should provide me with a note accepting the general terms set out, it being understood that the details as to the number of technicians desired, their

qualifications, the time of their arrival, etc. , are to be decided upon later. It is hoped that Your Excellency may find it possible to let

me have the reply of your Government by Monday, so that a copy

of the note may be taken directly to Washington by the Mission,

which is departing from Quito on Tuesday, October 28.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest

and most distinguished consideration.

JOHN F. SIMMONS

His Excellency Doctor José VICENTE TRUJILLO, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Quito.
Enclosure No. 1 of 3 pages : Statement of Conditions

STATEMENT OF CONDITIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE MISSION TO ECUADOR

Subject to the availability of suitable technicians and appropriated funds for the purpose and in accordance with the following conditions, the Government of the United States of America agrees to make available to the Government of Ecuador the services of technicians in the field of civil aviation as requested by the Government of Ecuador:

Chief ofMission.

1. The assignment of each technician shall be of indefinite duration, subject to joint periodic review.
2. The Government of the United States of America agrees to give the fullest consideration to any requests of the Government of Ecuador for an increase or decrease in the number of technicians originally furnished, or for the assignment of technicians in different fields of civil aviation.
3. The Government of the United States of America shall designate a Chief of Mission authorized to deal with the Government of Ecuador.

Mission members shall be responsible to the Chief of Mission . All members shall serve as advisers to the Government of Ecuador in

Secrecy requirement.

their respective fields but may volunteer opinions on related civil aviation matters when deemed advisable .
4. Mission members, during the period the Mission is in operation and thereafter, undertake not to divulge or reveal in any form to any

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR--CIVIL AVIATION MISSION--OCT. 24, 27, 1947
third Government or person confidential or secret matters of which they may become cognizant in the exercise of their duties .
5. Compensation of Mission members shall not be subject to any tax now or hereafter in effect of the Government of Ecuador or any of its political or administrative subdivisions. Should there, however, at present or while this agreement is in effect, be any taxes that might affect this compensation , such taxes shall be paid by the Government of Ecuador, in order to comply with the provisions of this paragraph.
6. The Government of the United States of America shall pay the salary, allowances , travel expenses to and from Ecuador, and any additional compensation of the technicians , subject to partial reimbursement by the Government of Ecuador.
7. The Government of Ecuador shall reimburse the Government of the United States of America toward the expenses incurred in connection with the assignment of each technician at the completion of each six-month period of each assignment. However, for accounting and procedural reasons, it will not be necessary for the Government of Ecuador to make any payments to the Government of the United States of America until such time as the Government of Ecuador shall have received a statement of its obligations in this connection.
8. The Government of Ecuador shall provide for entry free of customs duties for supplies, materials and effects for the professional and personal use of the technicians .
9. The Government of Ecuador shall provide the technicians with means of transportation within Ecuador, outside of the headquarters location, incurred in the conduct of their duties and pay the cost thereof, as well as the cost of acquisition of material, equipment and facilities necessary to the conduct of the Mission .
10. The Government of Ecuador shall provide technicians with suitably-equipped offices and adequate bilingual stenographic personnel and other employees, and bear the cost thereof.
11. The Government of Ecuador shall grant to authorized members of the Mission, approval to make flights in Ecuador in aircraft of United States or Ecuadoran registry as deemed necessary in the performance of the Mission.
12. The Government of Ecuador shall permit the transportation of the body of any technician detailed under these conditions who may die in Ecuador, to a place of burial in the United States of America selected by the surviving members of the family or their legal representatives.
13. The Government of Ecuador shall assume civil liability on account of damages to or loss of property or on account of personal injury or death caused by any member of the Mission while acting within the scope of his duties .
14. The above conditions may be modified in whole or in part by an exchange of notes between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Ecuador.

4015

4016

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Ecuadoran Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

REPÚBLICA DEL ECUADOR MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

URGENTE

DEPARTAMENTO DIPLOMATICO

N 241-DDP

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR:

QUITO, a 27 Oct. 1947

Tengo a honra contestar la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia número 372 , de 24 de octubre en curso, en la que se sirve informarme acerca de las conversaciones con el señor Ministro de Defensa Nacional, sostenidas por Vuestra Excelencia y los Miembros de la Misión enviada por los Estados Unidos como parte del programa del Comité Interdepartamental de Cooperación Científica y Cultural, con el propósito primordial de entrar en arreglos para el intercambio de técnicos en aviación civil entre nuestros respectivos países, para el desarrollo de la aviación civil en el Ecuador y la extensión con que mi Gobierno estaría dispuesto a participar en la financiación de tal programa. Con referencia a tales conversaciones y a los deseos expresados al Departamento de Estado por la Embajada ecuatoriana en Washington, el 8 de abril último, sobre el envío de uno o más expertos técnicos en aviación civil al país , Vuestra Excelencia tiene a bien remitirme un Memorándum que contiene 14 puntos, los cuales ha encontrado aceptables el Ministerio de Defensa Nacional, con el objeto de que el Gobierno del Ecuador exprese su opinión sobre los mismos, a la brevedad posible. Vuestra Excelencia tiene a bien destacar, además, la especial urgencia con que es preciso llegar a un acuerdo general para este programa, pues de lo contrario sería posible que se llegara a no poder contar con los fondos actualmente disponibles · en los Estados Unidos para el efecto .

2. En respuesta, me es grato manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia, luego de las correspondientes consultas con las competentes autoridades, que mi Gobierno acepta los términos generales puntualizados en el Memorándum anexo a la atenta comunicación de 24 del mes en curso que tengo a honra contestar y aprueba y confirma los términos en que quedan registradas en aquélla las conversaciones sostenidas por Vuestra Excelencia y los Miembros de la Misión, con el señor Ministro de Defensa Nacional, y entiende, en consecuencia, que dicho Memorandum , en virtud de la presente respuesta, constituye la base común aceptada y convenida con el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América sobre la cual se habrán de determinar luego, de mutuo acuerdo , los detalles relativos al número de técnicos, sus especialidades, el tiempo de la llegada de aquéllos al país y más particulares que se estimare necesarios, conforme Vuestra Excelencia indica en la misma comunicación .

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-CIVIL AVIATION MISSION- OCT. 24, 27, 1947 Válgome de la oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Excelencia las
seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración .
Por el Ministro, el Subsecretario :

4017

Eduardo Samaniego y Alvarez .

Al Excelentísimo Señor Don JOHN F. SIMMONS,
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América.

REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

URGENT

DIPLOMATIC DEPARTMENT

No. 241-DDP

MR. AMBASSADOR :

QUITO, October 27, 1947

I have the honor to reply to Your Excellency's courteous note No. 372 of October 24 instant, in which you are good enough to inform me concerning the conversations with the Minister of National Defense, in which Your Excellency and the Members of the Mission sent by the United States as part of the program of the Interdepartmental Committee on Scientific and Cultural Cooperation took part, for the prime purpose of entering into arrangements for the interchange of civil aviation technicians between our respective countries for the development of civil aviation in Ecuador, and the extent to which my Government would be disposed to participate in financing such a program . With reference to these conversations and the desires expressed to the Department of State by the Ecuadoran Embassy in Washington on April 8 last, regarding the sending of one or more expert technicians in civil aviation to this country, Your Excellency sends me a Memorandum containing 14 points, which the Ministry of National Defense has found to be acceptable, and on which the Government of Ecuador is asked to express its opinion as soon as possible. Furthermore, Your Excellency points out the special urgency with which it is necessary to reach a general agreement on

Ante, p. 4013.

4018 Ante, p. 4013.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 Stat.
this program, since otherwise it might not be possible to count on the funds at present available in the United States for this purpose. 2. In reply I am pleased to inform Your Excellency, after consultation with the competent authorities, that my Government accepts the general terms contained in the Memorandum enclosed with the communication of the 24th of this month, to which I have the honor to reply ; and my Government approves and confirms the terms of the note with reference to the conversations between Your Excellency and the Members of the Mission and the Minister of National Defense. My Government understands, consequently, that by virtue of this reply, the aforesaid Memorandum constitutes the common basis, accepted and agreed upon with the Government of the United States of America, according to which there will be determined later, by mutual agreement, the details relative to the number of technicians , their specialties, the time of their arrival in the country, and other particulars which may be considered necessary, as indicated by Your Excellency in the same communication .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
For the Minister, the Under Secretary: E. S. YA.
EDUARDO SAMANIEGO Y ALVAREZ. His Excellency
JOHN F. SIMMONS, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America.

61 STAT.] PHILIPPINES MILITARY BASES - MAR. 14, 1947

4019

Agreement and accompanying notes between the United States of America
and the Republic of the Philippines respecting military bases in the Philippines. Signed at Manila March 14, 1947; entered into force March 26, 1947.

March 14, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1775]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES CONCERNING MILITARY BASES

WHEREAS, the war in the Pacific has confirmed the mutuality of interest of the United States of America and of the Republic of the

Philippines in matters relating to the defense of their respective territories and that mutuality of interest demands that the Governments of the two countries take the necessary measures to promote their

mutual security and to defend their territories and areas ; WHEREAS, the Governments of the United States of America and

of the Republic of the Philippines are desirous of cooperating in the common defense of their two countries through arrangements con-

sonant with the procedures and objectives of the United Nations, and particularly through a grant to the United States of America by the

Republic of the Philippines in the exercise of its title and sovereignty, of the use, free of rent, in furtherance of the mutual interest of both

countries, of certain lands of the public domain ;

WHEREAS, the Government of the Republic of the Philippines has

requested United States assistance in providing for the defense of the Philippines and in developing for such defense effective Philippine armed forces ;
WHEREAS, pursuant to this request the Government of the United States of America has, in view of its interest in the welfare of the Philippines, indicated its intention of dispatching a military mission to the Philippines and of extending to her appropriate assistance in the development of the Philippine defense forces ;
WHEREAS, a Joint Resolution of the Congress of the United States of America of June 29, 1944, authorized the President of the United States of America to acquire bases for the mutual protection of the United States of America and of the Philippines ; and

58 Stat. 625. 48 U. S. C. §§ 1235a, 1240 note.

WHEREAS, Joint Resolution No. 4 of the Congress of the Philippines, approved July 28, 1945, [1] authorized the President of the

United States of America to negotiate with the President of the

Philippines for the establishment of bases provided for in the Joint Resolution of the Congress of the United States of America of June

29, 1944, with a view to insuring the territorial integrity of the Philippines, the mutual protection of the United States of America and the Philippines, and the maintenance of peace in the Pacific ;

1 ¹ [Philippine Official Gazette, Vol. 41, No. 5 , August 1945, p. 349. ]

4020
Post, p. 4032. Post, p. 4032.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
THEREFORE, the Governments of the Republic of the Philippines and of the United States of America agree upon the following terms for the delimitation , establishment, maintenance and operation of military bases in the Philippines :
ARTICLE I
GRANT OF BASES
1. The Government of the Republic of the Philippines ( hereinafter referred to as the Philippines ) grants to the Government of the United States of America ( hereinafter referred to as the United States ) the right to retain the use of the bases in the Philippines listed in Annex A attached hereto.
2. The Philippines agrees to permit the United States, upon notice to the Philippines, to use such of those bases listed in Annex B as the United States determines to be required by military necessity.
3. The Philippines agrees to enter into negotiations with the United States at the latter's request, to permit the United States to expand such bases, to exchange such bases for other bases, to acquire additional bases, or relinquish rights to bases, as any of such exigencies may be required by military necessity.
4. A narrative description of the boundaries of the bases to which this Agreement relates is given in Annex A and Annex B. An exact description of the bases listed in Annex A, with metes and bounds, in conformity with the narrative descriptions , will be agreed upon between the appropriate authorities of the two Governments as soon as possible. With respect to any of the bases listed in Annex B, an exact description with metes and bounds, in conformity with the narrative description of such bases, will be agreed upon if and when such bases are acquired by the United States.
ARTICLE II
MUTUAL COOPERATION
1. It is mutually agreed that the armed forces of the Philippines may serve on United States bases and that the armed forces of the United States may serve on Philippine military establishments whenever such conditions appear beneficial as mutually determined by the armed forces of both countries.
2. Joint outlined plans for the development of military bases in the Philippines may be prepared by military authorities of the two Governments.
3. In the interest of international security any bases listed in Annexes A and B may be made available to the Security Council of the United Nations on its call by prior mutual agreement between the United States and the Philippines.

61 STAT.] PHILIPPINES-MILITARY BASES- MAR. 14, 1947
ARTICLE III
DESCRIPTION OF RIGHTS
1. It is mutually agreed that the United States shall have the rights , power and authority within the bases which are necessary for the establishment , use, operation and defense thereof or appropriate for the control thereof and all the rights, power and authority within the limits of territorial waters and air space adjacent to , or in the vicinity of, the bases which are necessary to provide access to them, or appropriate for their control.
2. Such rights, power and authority shall include , inter alia, the right, power and authority :
(a) to construct ( including dredging and filling ) , operate, maintain, utilize, occupy, garrison and control the bases ;
(b ) to improve and deepen the harbors, channels, entrances and anchorages, and to construct or maintain necessary roads and bridges affording access to the bases ;
(c) to control (including the right to prohibit) in so far as may be required for the efficient operation and safety of the bases, and within the limits of military necessity, anchorages, moorings, landings, takeoffs, movements and operation of ships and waterborne craft, aircraft and other vehicles on water, in the air or on land comprising or in the vicinity of the bases ;
(d) the right to acquire, as may be agreed between the two Governments, such rights of way, and to construct thereon, as may be required for military purposes, wire and radio communications facilities, including submarine and subterranean cables, pipe lines and spur tracks from railroads to bases, and the right, as may be agreed upon between the two Governments to construct the necessary facilities ;
(e) to construct, install, maintain, and employ on any base any type of facilities, weapons, substance, device , vessel or vehicle on or under the ground , in the air or on or under the water that may be requisite or appropriate, including meteorological systems, aerial and water navigation lights, radio and radar apparatus and electronic devices, of any desired power, type of emission and frequency.
3. In the exercise of the above-mentioned rights, power and authority, the United States agrees that the powers granted to it will not be used unreasonably or, unless required by military necessity determined by the two Governments, so as to interfere with the necessary rights of navigation , aviation , communication, or land travel within the territories of the Philippines. In the practical application outside the bases of the rights, power and authority granted in this Article there shall be, as the occasion requires, consultation between the two Governments.

4021

4022

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
ARTICLE IV
SHIPPING AND NAVIGATION
1. It is mutually agreed that United States public vessels operated by or for the War or Navy Departments, the Coast Guard or the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and the military forces of the United States, military and naval aircraft and Government-owned vehicles, including armor, shall be accorded free access to and movement between ports and United States bases throughout the Philippines , including territorial waters, by land, air and sea. This right shall include freedom from compulsory pilotage and all toll charges. If, however, a pilot is taken , pilotage shall be paid for at appropriate rates. In connection with entrance into Philippine ports by United States public vessels appropriate notification under normal conditions shall be made to the Philippine authorities.
2. Lights and other aids to navigation of vessels and aircraft placed or established in the bases and territorial waters adjacent thereto or in the vicinity of such bases shall conform to the system in use in the Philippines. The position , characteristics and any alterations in the lights or other aids shall be communicated in advance to the appropriate authorities of the Philippines.
3. Philippine commercial vessels may use the bases on the same terms and conditions as United States commercial vessels.
4. It is understood that a base is not a part of the territory of the United States for the purpose of coastwise shipping laws so as to exclude Philippine vessels from trade between the United States and the bases.
ARTICLE V
EXEMPTION FROM CUSTOMS AND OTHER DUTIES
No import, excise, consumption or other tax, duty or impost shall be charged on material, equipment, supplies or goods, including food stores and clothing, for exclusive use in the construction, maintenance, operation or defense of the bases, consigned to, or destined for, the United States authorities and certified by them to be for such purposes.
ARTICLE VI
MANEUVER AND OTHER AREAS
The United States shall , subject to previous agreement with the Philippines, have the right to use land and coastal sea areas of appropriate size and location for periodic maneuvers, for additional staging areas, bombing and gunnery ranges, and for such intermediate airfields as may be required for safe and efficient air operations. Operations in such areas shall be carried on with due regard and safeguards for the public safety.
ARTICLE VII
USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES
It is mutually agreed that the United States may employ and use for United States military forces any and all public utilities, other

61 STAT.] PHILIPPINES-MILITARY BASES-MAR. 14, 1947
services and facilities, airfields, ports, harbors, roads, highways, railroads, bridges, viaducts, canals, lakes, rivers and streams in the Philippines under conditions no less favorable than those that may be applicable from time to time to the military forces of the Philippines.
ARTICLE VIII
HEALTH MEASURES OUTSIDE BASES
It is mutually agreed that the United States may construct, subject to agreement by the appropriate Philippine authorities, wells , water catchment areas or dams to insure an ample supply of water for all base operations and personnel. The United States shall likewise have the right, in cooperation with the appropriate authorities of the Philippines, to take such steps as may be mutually agreed upon to be necessary to improve health and sanitation in areas contiguous to the bases, including the right, under such conditions as may be mutually agreed upon, to enter and inspect any privately owned property. The United States shall pay just compensation for any injury to persons or damage to property that may result from action taken in connection with this Article.
ARTICLE IX
SURVEYS
It is mutually agreed that the United States shall have the right, after appropriate notification has been given to the Philippines, to make topographic, hydrographic, and coast and geodetic surveys and aerial photographs in any part of the Philippines and waters adjacent thereto. Copies with title and triangulation data of any surveys or photomaps made of the Philippines shall be furnished to the Philippines.
ARTICLE X
CEMETERIES AND HISTORICAL SITES 1. The United States shall have the right to retain and maintain such United States military cemeteries and such sites of historical significance to the United States as may be agreed upon by the two Governments. All rights, power and authority in relation to bases granted under this Agreement shall be applicable, in so far as appropriate, to the cemeteries and sites mentioned in this Article. 2. Furthermore, it is recognized that there are certain cemeteries and historical sites in the Philippines revered in the memory of the People of the United States and of the Philippines, and it is therefore fitting that the maintenance and improvement of such memorials be the common concern of the two countries.
ARTICLE XI
IMMIGRATION 1. It is mutually agreed that the United States shall have the right to bring into the Philippines members of the United States military forces and the United States nationals employed by or under a contract

4023

4024

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
with the United States together with their families, and technical personnel of other nationalities (not being persons excluded by the laws of the Philippines) in connection with the construction , maintenance, or operation of the bases. The United States shall make suitable arrangements so that such persons may be readily identified and their status established when necessary by the Philippine authorities. Such persons, other than members of the United States armed forces in uni-
form , shall present their travel documents to the appropriate Philippine authorities for visas, it being understood that no objection will be made to their travel to the Philippines as non-immigrants.
2. If the status of any person within the Philippines and admitted thereto under the foregoing paragraph shall be altered so that he would no longer be entitled to such admission, the United States shall notify the Philippines and shall, if such person be required to leave the Philippines by the latter Government, be responsible for providing him with a passage from the Philippines within a reasonable time, and shall in the meantime prevent his becoming a public responsibility of the Philippines.
ARTICLE XII
INTERNAL REVENUE TAX EXEMPTION
1. No member of the United States armed forces, except Filipino citizens, serving in the Philippines in connection with the bases and residing in the Philippines by reason only of such service, or his dependents, shall be liable to pay income tax in the Philippines except in respect of income derived from Philippine sources.
2. No national of the United States serving in or employed in the Philippines in connection with the construction, maintenance, operation or defense of the bases and residing in the Philippines by reason only of such employment, or his spouse and minor children and dependent parents of either spouse, shall be liable to pay income tax in the Philippines except in respect of income derived from Philippine sources or sources other than the United States sources.
3. No person referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall be liable to pay to the Government or local authorities of the Philippines any poll or residence tax, or any import or export duty, or any other tax on personal property imported for his own use ; provided that privately owned vehicles shall be subject to payment of the following only : when certified as being used for military purposes by appropriate United States authorities, the normal license plate fee ; otherwise, the normal license plate and registration fees.
4. No national of the United States, or corporation organized under the laws of the United States, resident in the United States, shall be liable to pay income tax in the Philippines in respect of any profits derived under a contract made in the United States with the Government of the United States in connection with the construction, maintenance, operation and defense of the bases, or any tax in the nature of a license in respect of any service or work for the United States in connection with the construction, maintenance, operation and defense of the bases.

61 STAT.] PHILIPPINES-MILITARY BASES- MAR. 14, 1947
ARTICLE XIII
JURISDICTION
1. The Philippines consents that the United States shall have the right to exercise jurisdiction over the following offenses :
(a) Any offense committed by any person within any base except where the offender and offended parties are both Philippine citizens (not members of the armed forces of the United States on active duty ) or the offense is against the security of the Philippines ;
(b) Any offense committed outside the bases by any member of the armed forces of the United States in which the offended party is also a member of the armed forces of the United States ; and
(c) Any offense committed outside the bases by any member of the armed forces of the United States against the security of the United States.
2. The Philippines shall have the right to exercise jurisdiction over all other offenses committed outside the bases by any member of the armed forces of the United States.
3. Whenever for special reasons the United States may desire not to exercise the jurisdiction reserved to it in paragraphs 1 and 6 of this Article, the officer holding the offender in custody shall so notify the fiscal (prosecuting attorney) of the city or province in which the offense has been committed within ten days after his arrest, and in such a case the Philippines shall exercise jurisdiction.
4. Whenever for special reasons the Philippines may desire not to exercise the jurisdiction reserved to it in paragraph 2 of this Article, the fiscal (prosecuting attorney) of the city or province where the offense has been committed shall so notify the officer holding the offender in custody within ten days after his arrest, and in such a case the United States shall be free to exercise jurisdiction . If any offense falling under paragraph 2 of this Article is committed by any member of the armed forces of the United States
(a) while engaged in the actual performance of a specific military duty, or
(b) during a period of national emergency declared by either Government and the fiscal ( prosecuting attorney) so finds from the evidence, he shall immediately notify the officer holding the offender in custody that the United States is free to exercise jurisdiction. In the event the fiscal ( prosecuting attorney) finds that the offense was not committed in the actual performance of a specific military duty, the offender's commanding officer shall have the right to appeal from such finding to the Secretary of Justice within ten days from the receipt of the decision of the fiscal and the decision of the Secretary of Justice shall be final.
5. In all cases over which the Philippines exercises jurisdiction the custody of the accused, pending trial and final judgment, shall be entrusted without delay to the commanding officer of the nearest

4025

4026

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

base, who shall acknowledge in writing that such accused has been

delivered to him for custody pending trial in a competent court of the Philippines and that he will be held ready to appear and will be pro-

Exclusive jurisdic tion in time of war.

duced before said court when required by it. The commanding officer shall be furnished by the fiscal (prosecuting attorney) with a copy of the information against the accused upon the filing of the original in the competent court.
6. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, it is mutually agreed that in time of war the United States shall have the right to exercise exclusive jurisdiction over any offenses which may be committed by members of the armed forces of the United States in the Philippines.

7. The United States agrees that it will not grant asylum in any of the bases to any person fleeing from the lawful jurisdiction of the Philippines. Should any such person be found in any base, he will be surrendered on demand to the competent authorities of the Philippines.
8. In every case in which jurisdiction over an offense is exercised by the United States, the offended party may institute a separate civil action against the offender in the proper court of the Philippines to enforce the civil liability which under the laws of the Philippines may arise from the offense.

ARTICLE XIV

ARREST AND SERVICE OF PROCESS

1. No arrest shall be made and no process, civil or criminal , shall be served within any base except with the permission of the commanding officer of such base ; but should the commanding officer refuse to grant such permission he shall ( except in cases of arrest where the United States has jurisdiction under Article XIII ) forthwith take the necessary steps to arrest the person charged and surrender him to the appropriate authorities of the Philippines or to serve such process, as the case may be, and to provide the attendance of the server of such process before the appropriate court in the Philippines or procure such server to make the necessary affidavit or declaration to prove such service as the case may require.
2. In cases where the service courts of the United States have jurisdiction under Article XIII , the appropriate authorities of the Philippines will, on request, give reciprocal facilities as regards the service of process and the arrest and surrender of alleged offenders.

ARTICLE XV
SECURITY LEGISLATION
The Philippines agrees to take such steps as may from time to time be agreed to be necessary with a view to the enactment of legislation to insure the adequate security and protection of the United States bases, equipment and other property and the operations of the United States under this Agreement, and the punishment of persons who may contravene such legislation. It is mutually agreed that appropriate authorities of the two Governments will also consult from time to

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-MILITARY BASES- MAR. 14, 1947

time in order to insure that laws and regulations of the United States and of the Philippines in relation to such matters shall, so far as may be possible, be uniform in character.

ARTICLE XVI POSTAL FACILITIES

It is mutually agreed that the United States shall have the right to

establish and maintain United States post offices in the bases for the

exclusive use of the United States armed forces, and civilian personnel

who are nationals of the United States and employed in connection

with the construction , maintenance, and operation of the bases, and the

families of such persons, for domestic use between United States post

offices in the bases and between such post offices and other United States

post offices. The United States shall have the right to regulate and

control within the bases all communications within, to and from

such bases.

ARTICLE XVII

REMOVAL OF IMPROVEMENTS

1. It is mutually agreed that the United States shall have the right to remove or dispose of any or all removable improvements, equipment or facilities located at or on any base and paid for with funds of the United States. No export tax shall be charged on any material or equipment so removed fromthe Philippines.
2. All buildings and structures which are erected by the United States in the bases shall be the property of the United States and may be removed by it before the expiration of this Agreement or the earlier relinquishment of the base on which the structures are situated. There shall be no obligation on the part of the United States or of the Philippines to rebuild or repair any destruction or damage inflicted from any cause whatsoever on any of the said buildings or structures owned or used by the United States in the bases. The United States is not obligated to turn over the bases to the Philippines at the expiration of this Agreement or the earlier relinquishment of any bases in the condition in which they were at the time of their occupation, nor is the Philippines obliged to make any compensation to the United States for the improvements made in the bases or for the buildings or structures left thereon , all of which shall become the property of the Philippines upon the termination of the Agreement or the earlier relinquishment by the United States of the bases where the structures have been built.
ARTICLE XVIII

SALES AND SERVICES WITHIN THE BASES

1. It is mutually agreed that the United States shall have the right to establish on bases, free of all licenses ; fees ; sales, excise or other taxes, or imposts ; Government agencies, including concessions, such as sales commissaries and post exchanges, messes and social clubs, for the exclusive use of the United States military forces and authorized

4027

4028 Post, p. 4032.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
civilian personnel and their families. The merchandise or services sold or dispensed by such agencies shall be free of all taxes , duties and inspection by the Philippine authorities. Administrative measures shall be taken by the appropriate authorities of the United States to prevent the resale of goods which are sold under the provisions of this Article to persons not entitled to buy goods at such agencies and, generally, to prevent abuse of the privileges granted under this Article. There shall be cooperation between such authorities and the Philippines to this end.
2. Except as may be provided in any other agreements, no person shall habitually render any professional services in a base except to or for the United States or to or for the persons mentioned in the preceding paragraph. No business shall be established in a base, it being understood that the Government agencies mentioned in the preceding paragraph shall not be regarded as businesses for the purposes of this Article.
ARTICLE XIX
COMMERCIAL CONCERNS
It is mutually agreed that the United States shall have the right, with the consent of the Philippines, to grant to commercial concerns owned or controlled by the citizens of the United States or of the Philippines such rights to the use of any base or facility retained or acquired by the United States as may be deemed appropriate by both Governments to insure the development and maintenance for defense purposes of such bases and facilities.
ARTICLE XX
MILITARY OR NAVAL POLICE
It is mutually agreed that there shall be close cooperation on a reciprocal basis between the military and naval police forces of the United States and the police forces of the Philippines for the purpose of preserving order and discipline among United States military and naval personnel.
ARTICLE XXI
TEMPORARY INSTALLATIONS
1. It is mutually agreed that the United States shall retain the right to occupy temporary quarters and installations now existing outside the bases mentioned in Annex A and Annex B, for such reasonable time, not exceeding two years, as may be necessary to develop adequate facilities within the bases for the United States armed forces. If circumstances require an extension of time, such a period will be fixed by mutual agreement of the two Governments ; but such extension shall not apply to the existing temporary quarters and installations within the limits of the City of Manila and shall in no case exceed a period of three years.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the Port of Manila reservation with boundaries as of 1941 will be avail-

61 STAT.] PHILIPPINES MILITARY BASES- MAR. 14, 1947

4029

able for use to the United States armed forces until such time as other arrangements can be made for supply of the bases by mutual agreement of the two Governments.
3. The terms of this Agreement pertaining to bases shall be applicable to temporary quarters and installations referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article while they are so occupied by the armed forces of the United States ; provided, that offenses committed within the temporary quarters and installations located within the present limits of the City of Manila shall not be considered as offenses within the bases but shall be governed by the Provisions of Article XIII , paragraphs 2 and 4, except that the election not to exercise the jurisdiction reserved to the Philippines shall be made by the Secretary of Justice. It is agreed that the United States shall have full use and full control of all these quarters and installations while they are occupied by the armed forces of the United States, including the exercise of such measures as may be necessary to police said quarters for the security of the personnel and property therein.
ARTICLE XXII

Ante, p. 4025.

CONDEMNATION OR EXPROPRIATION
1. Whenever it is necessary to acquire by condemnation or expropriation proceedings real property belonging to any private persons, associations or corporations located in bases named in Annex A and Annex B in order to carry out the purposes of this Agreement, the Philippines will institute and prosecute such condemnation or expropriation proceedings in accordance with the laws of the Philippines. The United States agrees to reimburse the Philippines for all the reasonable expenses, damages and costs thereby incurred, including the value of the property as determined by the Court. In addition, subject to the mutual agreement of the two Governments, the United States will reimburse the Philippines for the reasonable costs of transportation and removal of any occupants displaced or ejected by reason of the condemnation or expropriation.
2. Prior to the completion of such condemnation or expropriation proceedings, in cases of military necessity the United States shall have the right to take possession of such property required for military purposes as soon as the legal requisites for obtaining possession have been fulfilled.
3. The properties acquired under this Article shall be turned over to the Philippines upon the expiration of this Agreement, or the earlier relinquishment of such properties, under such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon by the two Governments.

Post, p. 4032.

ARTICLE XXIII
CIVIL LIABILITY
For the purpose of promoting and maintaining friendly relations by the prompt settlement of meritorious claims, the United States shall pay just and reasonable compensation, when accepted by claimants in full satisfaction and in final settlement, for claims, including
95347-50-- PT. IV- -44

4030

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
claims of insured but excluding claims of subrogees, on account of damage to or loss or destruction of private property, both real and personal, or personal injury or death of inhabitants of the Philippines, when such damage, loss, destruction or injury is caused by the armed forces of the United States, or individual members thereof, including military or civilian employees thereof, or otherwise incident to noncombat activities of such forces ; provided that no claim shall be considered unless presented within one year after the occurrence of the accident or incident out of which such claim arises.
ARTICLE XXIV MINERAL RESOURCES
All minerals (including oil ) , and antiquities and all rights relating thereto and to treasure trove, under, upon, or connected with the land and water comprised in the bases or otherwise used or occupied by the United States by virtue of this Agreement, are reserved to the Government and inhabitants of the Philippines ; but no rights so reserved shall be transferred to third parties, or exercised within the bases, without the consent of the United States. The United States shall negotiate with the proper Philippine authorities for the quarrying of rock and gravel necessary for construction work on the bases.
ARTICLE XXV GRANT OF BASES TO A THIRD POWER 1. The Philippines agrees that it shall not grant, without prior consent of the United States, any bases or any rights, power, or authority whatsoever, in or relating to bases, to any third power. 2. It is further agreed that the United States shall not, without the consent of the Philippines, assign, or underlet, or part with the possession of the whole or any part of any base, or of any right, power or authority granted by this Agreement, to any third power.
ARTICLE XXVI
DEFINITION OF BASES
For the purposes of this Agreement, bases are those areas named in Annex A and Annex B and such additional areas as may be acquired for military purposes pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXVII VOLUNTARY ENLISTMENT OF PHILIPPINE CITIZENS
It is mutually agreed that the United States shall have the right to recruit citizens of the Philippines for voluntary enlistment into the United States armed forces for a fixed term of years , and to train them and to exercise the same degree of control and discipline over them as is exercised in the case of other members of the United States armed forces. The number of such enlistments to be accepted by the armed forces of the United States may from time to time be limited by agreement between the two Governments.

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-MILITARY BASES -MAR. 14, 1947
ARTICLE XXVIII UNITED STATES RESERVE ORGANIZATIONS It is mutually agreed that the United States shall have the right to enroll and train all eligible United States citizens residing in the Philippines in the Reserve organizations of the armed forces of the United States, which include the Officers Reserve Corps and the Enlisted Reserve Corps , except that prior consent of the Philippines shall be obtained in the case of such persons who are employed by the Philippines or any Municipal or Provincial Government thereof.
ARTICLE XXIX TERM OF AGREEMENT The present Agreement shall enter into force upon its acceptance [ ¹ ] by the two Governments and shall remain in force for a period of ninety-nine years subject to extension thereafter as agreed by the two Governments.
Signed in Manila, Philippines, in duplicate this fourteenth day of March, nineteen hundred and forty-seven.
On behalf of the Government of the United States of America: [ SEAL ]
Smerim's
PAUL V. MCNUTT Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipoten-
tiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines.
On behalf of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines: [ SEAL ]
ManuelXoxaz
MANUEL ROXAS President of the Philippines
[Entered into force March 26, 1947. In a note of June 16, 1947, the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim at Manila informed the Acting Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines that "the Government of the United States of America considers that the signature affixed to the Agreement in its behalf constitutes the acceptance of the Agreement by the Government of the United States of America." In a note of January 24, 1948, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines informed the American Ambassador at Manila that "the Government of the Republic of the Philippines accepts the Agreement as of March 26, 1947, pursuant to a formal instrument of acceptance and ratification of said Agreement signed by the President of the Philippines on January 21 , 1948 . ."]

4031

4032

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

ANNEX A
Clark Field Air Base , Pampanga. Fort Stotsenberg, Pampanga. Mariveles Military Reservation, POL Terminal and Training Area,
Bataan.
Camp John Hay Leave and Recreation Center, Baguio. Army Communications System with the deletion of all stations in the
Port of Manila Area. United States Armed Forces Cemetery No. 2, San Francisco del Monte,
Rizal. Angeles General Depot, Pampanga. Leyte-Samar Naval Base including shore installations and air bases. Subic Bay, Northwest Shore Naval Base, Zambales Province, and the
existing Naval reservation at Olongapo and the existing Baguio Naval Reservation. Tawi Tawi Naval Anchorage and small adjacent land areas. Canacao- Sangley Point Navy Base, Cavite Province. Bagobantay Transmitter Area, Quezon City, and associated radio receiving and control sites, Manila Area. Tarumpitao Point (Loran Master Transmitter Station) , Palawan. Talampulan Island , Coast Guard # 354 ( Loran ) , Palawan. Naule Point (Loran Station) , Zambales. Castillejos, Coast Guard # 356 , Zambales.
ANNEX B
Mactan Island Army and Navy Air Base. Florida Blanca Air Base, Pampanga. Aircraft Service Warning Net. Camp Wallace, San Fernando, La Union. Puerto Princesa Army and Navy Air Base, including Navy Section
Base and Air Warning Sites, Palawan. Tawi Tawi Naval Base, Sulu Archipelago. Aparri Naval Air Base.

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES MILITARY BASES-MAR. 14, 1947

4033

The American Ambassador to the Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, March 14, 1947

EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to state, in signing the Agreement of March 14,
1947, Between the United States of America and the Republic of the

Adjustment of rights and titles held
by U. S.

Philippines Concerning Military Bases, the understanding of my

Government that the question of the adjustment of any rights and

titles held by the United States pursuant to the provisions of the Act of Congress of March 24, 1934 ( 48 Stat. 456 ) as amended, specifically Section 10 (b ) thereof, the Joint Resolution of the Congress of June 29, 1944, and the Act of Congress of July 3 , 1946, and Treaties and Agreements heretofore entered into between the United States and the Philippines, to real property in any of the bases covered by the

48 U. S. C. § 1231 et seq.
48 Stat. 463. 48 U.S. C. § 1240 (b). 58 Stat. 625; 60 Stat. 418.
48 U. S. C. §§ 1235a, 1240 note; 22 Ü. S. C.
$ 1381-1386.

aforementioned Agreement or any naval reservations or fueling stations not so covered is reserved and will be settled subsequently in

accordance with the terms of the Acts and Joint Resolution of the

Congress mentioned above.

I should be appreciative if I might be informed of the concurrence of Your Excellency's Government with the understanding above set forth .

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

His Excellency ELPIDIO QUIRINO,

PAUL V. MCNUTT

Secretary of Foreign Affairs for the Republic of the Philippines.

The Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

EXCELLENCY :

MANILA, March 14, 1947

With reference to Your Excellency's note of March 14, 1947, the substantive paragraph of which reads :
I have the honor to state, in signing the Agreement of March 14, 1947, between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines concerning military bases, the understanding of my Government that the question of the adjustment of any rights and titles held by the United States pursuant to the provisions of the Act of Congress of March 24, 1934 (48 Stat. 456) as amended, specifically Section 10 B thereof, the Joint Resolution of the Congress of June 29, 1944, and the Act of Congress of July 3, 1946,

4034

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
and Treaties and Agreements heretofore entered into between the United States and the Philippines, to real property in any of the bases covered by the aforementioned Agreement or any naval reservations or fueling stations not so covered is reserved and will be settled subsequently in accordance with the terms of the Acts and Joint Resolution of the Congress mentioned above ;
I have the honor to state that, without conceding the existence of any rights or titles to the real property therein referred to, my Government concurs with the understanding above set forth.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

ELPIDIO QUIRINO Vice-President and concurrently
Secretary of Foreign Affairs
His Excellency PAUL V. MCNUTT United States Ambassador Manila

The American Ambassador to the Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, March 14, 1947.

Garrisoning and development of bases.

EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to state in signing the Agreement of March 14,
1947 Between the United States of America and the Republic of the

Philippines Concerning Military Bases, the understanding of my

Government that the garrisoning and development of the said bases shall be the concern of the Government of the United States of

America .

I shall be appreciative if I may be informed of the concurrence of Your Excellency's Government with the understanding above set forth.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
PAUL V. MCNUTT

His Excellency ELPIDIO QUIRINO,

Secretary of Foreign Affairs for the Republic of the Philippines.

61 STAT.] PHILIPPINES-MILITARY BASES- MAR. 14, 1947

The Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

EXCELLENCY :

MANILA, March 14, 1947

In reply to your note of even date regarding the garrisoning and development of the bases covered by the Agreement of March 14, 1947, between the Republic of the Philippines and the United States of America concerning military bases, I have the honor to state that it is the understanding of my Government that the question of garrisoning and development of said bases shall be the concern of the Government of the United States.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

4035

ELPIDIO QUIRINO Vice-President and concurrently
Secretary of Foreign Affairs
His Excellency PAUL V. MCNUTT American Ambassador to the Philippines Manila

The Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

EXCELLENCY :

MANILA, March 12, [¹ ] 1947

In the signing of the Agreement on March 14 , 1947, between the Republic of the Philippines and the United States of America concerning military bases , I have the honor to state that it is the understanding of my Government that the existing national and provincial and other rights of way of the Republic of the Philippines running through the bases covered in Annex A and Annex B of the Agreement, more particularly the national road running through Camp John Hay and the naval reservation at Baguio, shall continue to be used as such

by the public and that this understanding shall be administratively brought about in the enforcement of said Agreement.
I will highly appreciate it, therefore, if I can be informed of the concurrence of Your Excellency's Government with the understanding set forth above.

Ante, p. 4032.

¹ [This date should be "March 14."]

4036

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

ELPIDIO QUIRINO Vice-President and concurrently

Secretary of His Excellency
PAUL V. MCNUTT United States Ambassador

Foreign Affairs

Manila

The American Ambassador to the Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs

EXCELLENCY :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, March 14, 1947.

With reference to Your Excellency's note of March 14 , 1947, the

substantive paragraph of which reads :

Rights of way through bases.

In the signing of the Agreement on March 14, 1947, Between the Republic of the Philippines and the United States of America Con-

cerning Military Bases, I have the honor to state that it is the under-

Ante, p. 4032.

standing of my Government that the existing national and provincial and other rights of way of the Republic of the Philippines running through the bases covered in Annex A and Annex B of the Agree-

ment, more particularly the national road running through Camp John Hay and the naval reservation at Baguio, shall continue to be

used as such by the public and that this understanding shall be administratively brought about in the enforcement of said Agreement ;

Ante, p. 4021 .

I have the honor to state that without conceding the existence of any national or provincial or other rights of way of the Republic of the Philippines running through any of the bases covered in Annex A and Annex B of the Agreement and subject to such adjustments in rights of way as may be required by military necessity in accordance with paragraph 3 of Article III , my Government concurs with the understanding above set forth.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
PAUL V. MCNUTT
His Excellency ELPIDIO QUIRINO,
Secretary of Foreign Affairs for the Republic of the Philippines.

61 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS-AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II-APR. 11, 1947 4037

Agreement between the United States of America and the Netherlands respecting American dead in World War II. Effected by exchange of notes signed at The Hague April 11 , 1947; entered into force April 11, 1947.

April 11, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1777]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Netherlands Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 705 EXCELLENCY :

THE HAGUE, April 11 , 1947.

I have the honor to refer to my note No. 688 , of March 26 , 1947, ['] in which I informed Your Excellency that the Department of State had authorized the Embassy to effect an exchange of notes with Your Excellency concerning American War Graves in the Netherlands and in its Overseas Territories.

The plan presented by the American Graves Registration Command, including the "major concessions " desired, in connection with American War Graves in the Netherlands and the Netherlands Overseas Territories, is as follows:

"1. The Plan Presented :

1. It is the declared policy of the Government of the United States of America, upon application by the next of kin, to return to the Homeland for interment at places designated by the next of kin, or in national cemeteries, the remains of persons who died on or after September 3, 1939, and are buried outside the continental limits of the United States, and who were :
a. Members of the armed forces of the United States who died in the service.
b. Civilian officers and employees of the United States . c. Citizens of the United States who served in the armed
forces of any Government at war with Germany, Italy, Japan, or any other belligerent power, and who died while in such service and who were citizens of the United States at the time of such service. d. Citizens of the United States whose homes are in fact in the United States and whose death, outside the continental limits thereof can be directly attributed to the war or who died while employed or otherwise engaged in activities contributing to the prosecution of the war. e. Such other citizens of the United States, the return of the remains of whom would, in discretion of the Secretary of War, serve the public interest.

[Not printed.]

4038
Temporary cemeteries.
Permits for disinterments.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
2. Future policy of the Government of the United States and the desires of the next of kin of deceased persons may also necessitate the concentration of remains into "Fields of Honors" in each of the United Nations or in other Nations , their possessions or territories, for perpetual care by the United States Government.
3. It may be fitting and proper, at a future date, to commemorate the accomplishment, heroism and sacrifices of the Armed Forces of the United States by monuments or other suitable means.
4. There are presently interred in temporary United States Military Cemeteries in many of the various United Nations and other Nations, or the possessions or territories subject to their jurisdiction, the remains of members of Allied Armed Forces, Italian, German, Japanese and other former belligerent powers which require transfer of the custody of the remains to another country in order to secure perpetual care and maintenance of the graves of such deceased .
5. In furtherance of the objectives hereinbefore set forth , major concessions as enumerated below are desired from each of the Nations in order that the United States of America, through its duly designated representatives, may conduct these sacred operations without undue restrictions upon the Government of the United States.
Major Concessions Requested:
a. The right to establish and maintain temporary cemeteries within the Nation, its possessions or territories subject to the control of the respective Government as are necessary for the burial of deceased persons subject to its control and to make exhumations therefrom or from other locations for repatriation or for concentration into permanent cemeteries abroad including movement of bodies from other countries into said Nation, its possessions or territories, provided however that no remains. may be removed from the Netherlands to any colony or possession of the Netherlands, nor be removed from the Netherlands to any Netherlands territory over sea out of Europe, nor be removed from those territories to the Netherlands .
b. The right to be exempt from all national, local or other laws and/or regulations relating to the securing of permits for disinterments ; sanitation, upon an assurance that such work will be conducted in a manner not detrimental to public health, any question as to detriment, in case same shall be raised by the respective Government, to be determined by mutual accord ; and from the payment of any duties, taxes or fees of any kind whatsoever for the burial, disinterment for reburial or movement of bodies or the maintenance of permanent graves.

61 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS--AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II-APR. 11, 1947 4039

c. Free entrance and exit for all personnel, supplies, trans-

Free entrance and exit.

portation (air, motor, and water) , including the use of

highways and inland and coastal waterways necessary or

incident to repatriation and concentration activities.

d . Use of such ports, port facilities, including but not limited Use ofports, etc.

to, warehousing, docks , pilotage , supplies and services

as are essential to repatriation and concentration activ-

ities subject only to payment of the established rates of

compensation therefor.

e. Use of rail and water transportation , including but not limited to that belonging or subject to the regulations of the respective Government to the extent required for the work involved and subject to payment for the use thereof at prevailing rates.

f. The right to the use of buildings, services and to employ labor within the respective Nation, the possessions or

territories subject to the jurisdiction thereof, as are

required for all activities involved by payment for use

thereof at prevailing rates.

g.

The respective

Government shall

procure

possession

of

Sites for permanent cemeteries, etc.

such sites for permanent cemeteries (Field of Honor) and/or

memorials as are deemed necessary by the Government

of the United States and will be pleased to grant to the

United States of America the use thereof in perpetuity

without payment by the United States of compensation therefor. Such sites shall be at location judged appro-

priate for the purpose by designated representatives of the Netherlands, and shall include sufficient ground in addition to burial space, for proper beautification, ap-

proach roads where required, and the construction of such buildings as are essential to the housing of caretakers, reception of visitors and general maintenance work and memorials at or separate and apart from cemeteries .

h. The right without regard to any national or local laws, Right to plan, etc.

customs, or regulations, to plan, layout, improve, construct buildings thereon, and beautify and provide for the perpetual custody and maintenance of such cemeteries and memorials as are directed by the United States Government, but subject however to the following provisions :

a. The determination of the boundaries of any such Determination of boundaries.
cemetery, and particularly those portions lying outside of the burial plots and serving for beautification and/or as a site for the erection of a memorial, must be discussed with and approved by appropriate agen-

cies of the respective government or political component thereof.

4040 Access roads.
Exemption of salaries, etc., from taxation.
Custody ofremains, etc., of designated personnel.
Exercise of rights reserved to U. S.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
b. Like discussion and agreement is required with respect to the course of access roads leading into any such cemetery, the landscaping of portions of any such cemetery, lying outside of the burial plots, the fencing or hedging of the cemetery , and the height, exterior plans and site of any memorial or the permanent structure to be erected thereon .
i. All salaries and other renumeration paid to personnel, who are citizens of the United States, by the United States while engaged in, and all facilities, material and supplies whether purchased locally or otherwise , utilized in these operations, including land for permanent cemeteries and memorials, and improvements thereto and buildings constructed thereon shall be exempt from any and all forms of taxation, direct or indirect.
j . The respective Government, at such time and place as the United States Government so requests, will assume custody of the remains and provide for the permanent maintenance of the graves of personnel formally serving with other Allied Armed Forces, Italy, Germany, Japan, or any other belligerent power which are now buried in temporary United States Military Cemeteries or other places now within custody of the United States Government located in the respective country, its possessions or territories, provided , however, that the United States reserves similar rights, as hereinbefore set forth to be exercised, if so desired , to disinter and transport the remains of members of other Allied Nations to cemeteries designated by such Nation within said respective country, the possessions or territories subject to the jurisdiction thereof.
k. The provisions of this section shall apply with equal force and effect to the shipment of remains from other foreign countries into the respective Nation , the possessions or territories subject to the jurisdiction of said nation, where the next of kin reside in said country, or one of its possessions or territories, and request final interment of remains therein , provided however that no remains may be removed from the Netherlands to any Netherlands territory over sea out of Europe, nor be removed from those territories to the Netherlands.
1. The rights, privileges and prerogatives reserved to the United States herein shall be exercised prior to January 1, 1955, except as relates to use of land acquired for cemeteries, memorials and improvements thereto, including buildings constructed thereon, which shall run in perpetuity. "

61 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS-AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II-APR. 11, 1947
As Your Excellency is aware, the question of the above mentioned "major concessions" have been the subject of various informal conversations between officers of this Embassy and representatives of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs ; and it is my understanding that Your Excellency's Government is prepared to grant these concessions. If such is indeed the case, I shall appreciate receiving Your Excellency's confirmation thereof.
Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration . J. WEBB BENTON J. WEBB BENTON Charge d'Affaires, a.i.
His Excellency Baron C. G. W. H. VAN BOETZELAER VAN OOSTERHOUT, Royal Netherlands Minister for Foreign Affairs, The Hague.

4041

The Netherlands Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
MIN. VAN BUITENLANDSCHE ZAKEN ADMINISTRATIVE AND LEGAL
DEPARTMENT.

No. 37378.

THE HAGUE, April 11 , 1947.

SIR, I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your note of to-day's
date, no. 705, in the following terms:

Ante, p. 4037.

[ Text same as in preceding note]
I have the honour to confirm that the Netherlands Government is prepared to grant the concessions as laid down in the abovementioned note. Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my high consideration .

FOR THE MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, SNOUCK HURGRONJE

To J. WEBB BENTON Esq., Chargé d'Affaires a.i. ofthe United States of America.

4042

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STat,

June 19, 28, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1796]

Agreement between the United States ofAmerica and Rumania respecting American dead in World War II. Effected by exchange of notes
signed at Bucharest June 19 and 28, 1946; entered into force June 28, 1946.

The American Representative in Rumania to the Rumanian Minister for Foreign Affairs
THE UNITED STATES MISSION BUCHAREST, RUMANIA.

JUNE 19, 1946

War graves registration, etc.

SIR : My Government desires to conclude with your Government a bi-
lateral agreement upon war graves registration and associated mat-

ters. I am attaching a suggested text of such an agreement upon

which I shall appreciate your comments. If you find this text acceptable, I suggest that the agreement can be concluded by an exchange of notes.

I desire to emphasize that it is now the intention of my Government to arrange only for the right of temporary burial, and that permanent arrangements now in existence or contemplated with regard to the establishment of cemeteries will be cancelled under instructions sent

to the United States Military Representative by the United States War Department.

I shall be grateful if this matter is given your prompt consideration. Very truly yours , BURTON Y. BERRY

Representative of the United States In Rumania

His Excellency GHEORGHE TATARESCU,
The Royal Minister For Foreign Affairs.

"The following shall govern relative to the disposal of the remains of deceased persons who were citizens of the United States and/or who served or who accompanied the Armed Forces of the United States

61 STAT. ] RUMANIA-AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II-JUNE 19, 28, 1946 4043

and are now buried in Rumania or any possession or territory now or hereafter subject to the control of the Rumanian Government.

"1. The United States, through its duly designated representatives shall have the following rights , privileges and prerogatives :

U. S. rights, etc.

Temporary ceme"A. The Government of the United States shall have the right teries. to establish and maintain such temporary cemeteries as are necessary

for the burial of deceased persons subject to its control and to make

exhumations therefrom for repatriation or concentration into other

cemeteries abroad ; and may move bodies from other countries into

and/or through Rumania and its territories and possessions for internment and/or trans-shipment.
"B. The Government of the United States shall be exempt from all national, local or other laws and/or regulations relating to the per-

Permits for disinterments, etc.

mits for disinterments ; sanitation, upon an assurance that such work

will be conducted in a manner not detrimental to public health ; and

from the payment of any duties, taxes or fees of any kind whatsoever

for the burial , disinterment for reburial or movement of bodies or the maintenance of graves.
"C. The Government of the United States shall have the right

Free entrance and exit, etc.

of free entrance and exit for all personnel, supplies, transportation (air,

mail , animal, motor, and water) serving or belonging to the United States and the use of air fields or port facilities , warehousing, living

quarters, office space, rail and water transportation and the right to

employ labor in Rumania, its territory and possessions , essential to

the accomplishment of its mission upon payment of just compensation therefor.
"D. The Government of the United States shall have the un-

Rights of search.

restricted rights of search for the remains of members of its Armed Forces and/or its citizens.
"E. The Government of the United States shall have the unre-

stricted right to examine and copy all records, military or civilian, which may be of assistance in locating the graves, or identifying the remains of its deceased military or civilian personnel.

"F. The Government of the United States shall have the right

to question and examine citizens of Rumania and to take affidavits in furtherance of its search for, and identification of remains of members of its Armed Forces and/or its citizens.
"2. The Government of Rumania will render all possible assistance in locating and securing the effects of deceased military and civilian

Assistance from Rumanian Government.

personnel of the United States, and upon demand and the furnishing of a proper receipt will turn over to representatives of the United States all effects so located and secured.

"3. If in the future the Government of the United States wishes to

establish permanent cemeteries or erect memorials in Rumania , the

Rumanian Government will exercise its power of eminent domain to

4044

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STat.
acquire title to such sites and grant to the United States the right to use therein in perpetuity upon payment by the United States of just compensation therefor. Any sites acquired including improvements thereto and buildings constructed thereon shall be exempt for any and all form of taxation, direct or indirect. The provisions of paragraphs 1A, B and C will apply for the period of the agreement, the construction and maintenance of such permanent cemetreries and memorials as may be desired. "

61 STAT.] RUMANIA--AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II--JUNE 19, 28, 1946 4045
The Secretary General of the Rumanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Representative in Rumania
BUCAREST, LE 28 Iunie 1946
MINISTERE ROYAL DES AFFAIRES ETRANGERES No. 24.152 Domnule ,
An onoarea a confirma primirea scrisoarei Donniei Voastre din 19 crt . i a urmtorului text propus de Domnia Voastr pentru o conveniune bilateral cu privire la mormintele de rzboi i la chestiunile privitoare la aceste morminte :
"Cele ce urmeaz vor reglementa soarta rmielor persoanelor decedate · cari au fost ceteni ai Statelor Unite i ( sau ) cari au fost în serviciul forelor armate ale Statelor Unite sau le-au însoit i cari acum se gsesc îmormântate în România sau în orice posesiune sau teritoriu supus în prezent sau în viitor jurisdiciei Guvernului român.
" 1. Statele Unite , prin reprezentanii lor desemnai în modul cuvenit · vor avea urmtoarele drepturi · privilegii i prerogative :
"A. Guvernul Statelor Unite va avea dreptul de a înfiina i de a întreine cimitire provizorii necesare pentru înmormântarea persoanelor decedate i supuse controlului su i de a face exhumri din
95347°-50- PT. IV- -45

4046

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

aceste cimitire , în vederea repatrierii sau a concentrrii în alte cimitire din strintate i va putea transporta corpuri din alte ri în i ( sau ) prin România i teritoriile i posesiunile sale , pentru înmormântare i ( sau ) transbordare.
"B. Guvernul Statelor Unite va fi scutit de orice legi i (sau) regulamente naionale , locale sau de alt natur , relative la autorizaiile de exhumare ; va fi scutit de dispoziiile sanitare · cu asigurarea c asemenea operaiuni vor fi efectuate într'un mod care s nu prejudicieze sntatea public ; i de plata oricror drepturi , impozite sau taxe de orice fel , pentru îmormântarea · exhumarea în vederea reînmormântrii sau pentru transportarea corpurilor sau pentru întreinerea mormintelor.
"C. Guvernul Statelor Unite va avea dreptul de liber intrare i eire pentru tot personalul · aprovizionrile mijloacele de transport (aerian , potal , animal · motorizat i pe ap ) , cari servesc sau aparin Statelor Unite , precum i folosina aerodromurilor i a porturilor · magaziilor · locuinelor , localurilor pentru biurouri a mijloacelor de transport feroviar sau pe ap i dreptul de a întrebuina mâna de lucru în România · în teritoriul i posesiunile ei · necesar pentru îndeplinirea misiunei sale , dup plata unei juste remunerri .
"D. Guvernul Statelor Unite va avea drepturi nelimitate pentru cutarea rmielor membrilor forelor

61 STAT. ] RUMANIA-AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II-JUNE 19, 28, 1946 4047
sale armate i ( sau) ale cetenilor si .
"E. Guvernul Statelor Unite va avea dreptul nelimitat de a cerceta i de a copia toate registrele , militare sau civile , cari ar fi de folos la gsirea mormintelor sau la identificarea rmielor personalului su decedat · militar sau civil .
"F. Guvernul Statelor Unite va avea dreptul de a interoga i de asculta pe cetenii României i de a le lua declaraii autentice în interesul cercetrilor sale pentru aflarea i identificarea rmielor membrilor forelor sale armate i (sau) ale cetenilor si .
"2. Guvernul Român va da tot ajutorul cu putin pentru gsirea i luarea în primire a efectelor personalului decedat · militar i civil · al Statelor Unite iar la cerere i dup eliberarea cuvenitei adeverine va preda reprezentanilor Statelor Unite toate efectele astfel gsite i luate în primire.
"3. Dac pe viitor Guvernul Statelor Unite va dori s infiineze cimitire permanente sau s ridice monumente în România , Guvernul Român îi va exercia dreptul de "dominium eminens" pentru a dobândi dreptul asupra unor astfel de terenuri i va acorda Statelor Unite dreptul de folosin perpetu în urma achitrii de ctre Statele Unite a unei juste remunerri . Orice terenuri dobândite inclusiv îmbuntirile lor i cldirile construite pe ele vor fi scutite de orice fel

4048

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

de impunere · direct sau indirect . Prevederile paragr. felor 1A, B i C se vor aplica , pe durata conveniei , la construirea i întreinerea cimitirelor permanente i a monumentelor dorite"
Drept rspuns la aceast scrisoare an onoarea a V informa c Guvernul Român accept propunerea Domniei Voastre 1 consider prin prezenta conveniunea bilateral propus în termenii aci menionai ca definitiv încheiat i va lua imediat msuri pentru aplicarea ei de ctre autoritile sale în înelegere cu delegatul sau delegaii desemnai de Domnia Voastr .

Al Domniei Voastre, foarte sincer
M Stoire 1'] Ambasador
Secretar General al Ministerului Afacerilor Strine,

Excelentei-Sale Domnului Burton Y. BERRY Reprezentantul Statelor Unite în România.-

1 ¹ [B.

Stoica. ]

61 STAT. ]

RUMANIA- AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II-JUNE 19, 28, 1946 Translation

4049

ROYAL MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

No. 24.152

BUCHAREST, June 28, 1946

SIR :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of June 19 and of the following text proposed by you for a bilateral agreement with regard to war graves and matters relating to these graves :

Ante, p. 4042.

[For the English language text of the agreement, see p. 4043.]

In answer to this letter I have the honor to inform you that the

Acceptance by Rumanian Government.

Rumanian Government accepts your proposal , that it hereby considers

the bilateral agreement proposed in the foregoing terms , as definitively concluded and that it will take immediate steps for its application by

its authorities in agreement with the delegate or delegates designated by you.
Very sincerely yours B. STOICA

Ambassador

Secretary General of the

Ministry of Foreign Affairs

His Excellency BURTON Y. BERRY Representative of the United States in Rumania.

4050

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

April 10, 30, 1947 (T. I. A. S. 1798]

Arrangement between the United States of America and Sweden respecting passport visa fees . Effected by exchange of notes dated at Washington April 10 and 30, 1947 ; entered into force April 30, 1947.
The Swedish Minister to the Acting Secretary of State LEGATION OF SWEDEN WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
No. 140
The Minister of Sweden presents his compliments to the Honourable the Acting Secretary of State and, with reference to informal discussions between officials of the Visa Division of the Department of State and the Swedish Legation , has the honour to bring to the Acting Secretary's knowledge that the Swedish Government is prepared to abolish visa requirements, but not passport requirements, for American citizens traveling in Sweden. However, existing Swedish regulations which require special permission to stay in Sweden longer than three months or to take employment in Sweden will remain in force unchanged. At present the fee for such permits varies from 4 to 12 Swedish crowns, depending upon the period of validity of the permit.
The necessary steps for abolishing the visa requirements for American citizens visiting Sweden will be taken forthwith by the Swedish Government provided the United States Government is willing to waive, in respect of Swedish citizens, the fees for non-immigrant visas and applications therefor, and to extend to twenty-four months the validity of visas granted to Swedish citizens who may be considered habitual visitors to the United States for bona-fide business purposes.
The Minister would appreciate to be informed of the attitude of the American Government in this matter.
WASHINGTON, D. C. , April 10, 1947.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Swedish Minister

Abolishment by Sweden of visa re-

The Acting Secretary of State presents his compliments to the Hon-

iqcuainrecmiteinztesnsf. or Amer- orable the Minister of Sweden and has the honor to refer to the Lega-

tion's Note No. 140 of April 10 , 1947, in which it is stated that the

Swedish Government is prepared to abolish visa requirements, but

not passport requirements, for American citizens traveling to Sweden,

although the Swedish regulations requiring the payment of fees for

residence permits will remain in effect.

A reciprocal arrangement, effective July 4 , 1925, [ ¹ ] was concluded between the Government of the United States and the Government of

Sweden whereby the fees for nonimmigrant passport visas and appli-
cations therefor were waived for American citizens proceeding to 1 ¹ [ Not printed . The correct date is July 5, 1925. ]

61 STAT. ] SWEDEN- PASSPORT VISA FEES -APR. 10, 30, 1947

4051

Sweden, and for Swedish citizens or subjects proceeding to the United

States. At the request of the Government of Sweden this arrangement was amended , effective September 5, 1939, whereby there was

54 Stat. 2489.

established a fee of Kroner 4 for visaing the passport of an American

citizen and a fee of $1.25 for granting a nonimmigrant passport visa to a Swedish citizen or subject.
The Government of the United States understands from the Swedish
Legation's Note No. 140 that visa requirements, but not passport requirements, will be waived for American citizens proceeding to Sweden or Swedish territory and that such citizens who desire to remain in

Permit for stay in Sweden longer than three months.

Sweden or Swedish territory for a period of time longer than three months, or to take employment therein, except in the cases of officials of the United States Government, their families, servants, and employees, will be required to obtain a permit, the fee for which will be 4 crowns for a stay of one month, 6 crowns for three months, and 12 crowns for more than three months ; these periods of time being in addition to the original period of three months for which no visa or residence fee will be required. It is further understood that any number of entries may be made into Sweden or Swedish territory without

a visa provided the total time spent in Sweden or Swedish territory

does not exceed three months in any nine months period, but that this

Nonapplicability to crew of commercial

time limit does not apply to crew members of commercial aircraft who aircraft.

enter Sweden or Swedish territory and whose names appear on the

aircraft's manifest on which they arrive provided they leave Sweden

or Swedish territory within a reasonable time. In view of the understanding outlined herein the Government of the
United States will waive the passport visa fees, effective on and after

Waiver of designated passport visa fees by U. s.

June 1 , 1947, for citizens or subjects of Sweden who are bona fide non-

immigrants within the meaning of the immigration laws of the United

States. A nonimmigrant passport visa granted by an American dip-

lomatic or consular officer is valid for any number of applications for admission into the United States or United States territory during a

period of twelve months from date of issuance, provided the passport

of the bearer is valid for that period. The Government of the United

States proposes that passport visas may be granted to nonimmigrants

for an initial period of two years on and after June 1 , 1947. The pe-

riod of validity of the visa relates only to the period within which it

may be used in connection with an application for admission at a port

of entry and not to the length of stay in the United States which may be

permitted the bearer if he is admitted. The period of stay is a matter

within the discretion of the immigration authorities. The fee for an immigration visa to permit an alien to apply for
admission into the United States with the privilege of residing per-

Fee for immigration visa.

manently in this country is $10.00 . The amount of this fee is pre-

scribed by the Immigration Act of 1924, and it may not be changed on

the basis of a reciprocal arrangement.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

GJH

43 Stat. 153. 8 U. S. C. §201 note.

Washington, April 30 1947

4052

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
The Swedish Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Secretary of State
LEGATION OF SWEDEN WASHINGTON 8, D. C. No. 167
The Charge d'Affaires a . i. of Sweden presents his compliments to the Honourable the Secretary of State and, with reference to the Department of State's note, dated today, has the honour to inform the Secretary that the Swedish Government, as of May 1 , 1947, will abolish visa requirements, but not passport requirements, for American citizens traveling to Sweden. Existing Swedish regulations which require special permission to stay in Sweden longer than three months or to take employment there remain in force unchanged.
The Charge d'Affaires has taken notice of the contents of the abovementioned note of the Department of State i.a. stating that the Government of the United States will waive the passport visa fees, effective on and after June 1 , 1947, for citizens or subjects of Sweden who are bona-fide non-immigrants within the meaning of the Immigration Laws of the United States, and that the Government of the United States proposes that passport visas may be granted to non-immigrants for an initial period of two years on and after June 1 , 1947, which measures will be much appreciated by the Swedish Government.
WASHINGTON, D. C., April 30, 1947.

61 STAT.]

May 18, 1943 MEXICO- WEATHER STATIONS-
June 14, 1943

4053

Agreement between the United States of America and Mexico respecting a cooperative program for weather stations in Mexico. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Mexico May 18 and June 14, 1943; entered into force June 14 , 1943.

May 18 and June 14, 1943
IT. I. A. S. 1806]

The American Ambassador to the Mexican Minister of Foreign Affairs

No. 1271

MEXICO, May 18, 1943.

EXCELLENCY: Pursuant to instructions from my Government, I have the honor
to inform Your Excellency that, in furtherance of the war effort, and

Proposed network of nine stations.

particularly in order to safeguard military and air transport operations, it appears to be desirable to provide a network of urgently needed meteorological reports from points in northern Mexico bordering important airways of the United States. In the event that the establishment of such a network should be agreeable to Your Excellency's Government, the United States Weather Bureau, of the De-

partment of Commerce, is prepared to provide the necessary equipment for nine such stations and is likewise prepared to defray the salaries of, and to train, sufficient Mexican personnel to take eight complete weather observations at three-hourly intervals daily, including Sundays and holidays .
While this matter has not been previously discussed with Mexican authorities, it is believed that the proposal will receive favorable

consideration by the Mexican Meteorological Survey, since the
weather reports from the net work would be beneficial in forecasting weather which at times moves southward across Mexico .
Official to assist in For Your Excellency's information I may add that if, as I venture arrangements. to hope, the above suggestion should prove agreeable to Your Excel-
lency's Government, the Weather Bureau would send an official to
this Capital to assist in the making of the necessary arrangements

and agreements so that the establishment of the stations may be expedited .

I should appreciate it if Your Excellency would be so kind as to endeavor to expedite a decision in regard to the above.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH

4054

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

The Mexican Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES ESTADOS UNIDOS MEXICANOS MEXICO

54229

MÉXICO, junio 14 de 1943.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR : En respuesta a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia número 1271
de 18 de mayo próximo pasado , y con relación a la mía número 53859 de 2 de junio en curso, me es grato manifestarle que el Gobierno de México está de acuerdo en que se establezcan nueve estaciones meteorológicas con el fin de proporcionar, diariamente, informes útiles para mejor salvaguardar las operaciones de transportes militares y aéreos.

Por lo tanto, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos podrá enviar a México cuando a bien lo tenga, el funcionario de la Oficina Meteorológica a que se refiere la nota de Vuestra Excelencia, a fin de

hacer los arreglos necesarios con las autoridades correspondientes del Gobierno de México - en este caso la Secretaría de Agricultura - en todo lo relativo a la localización de dichas estaciones , a la cooperación que prestará la Oficina Meteorológica Norteamericana en el sentido de proporcionar los equipos destinados al funcionamiento de aquellas, y al envío, si se creyera conveniente, de uno o más técnicos que instruyan al personal mexicano que atenderá las estaciones de que se trata. El sueldo de este personal será cubierto por el Gobierno de México .

Con esta nota remito a Vuestra Excelencia, adjunto, un memorándum que contiene diversos informes que en relación con este asunto, ha proporcionado la Secretaría de Agricultura y Fomento a la Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores.

Aprovecho la oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Excelencia, las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
E. PADILLA ANEXO.

Excmo . Señor GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Presente.

61 STAT.]

MEXICO-WEATHER STATIONS-

May 18, 1943 June 14, 1943

MEMORANDUM .

En la actualidad existen en la región norte de la República las 11 estaciones meteorológicas que a continuación se indican:

ESTACIONES:
Ensenada, B. C. Altar, Son Ures, Son. Villa Ahumada, Chih. Temósachic, Chih. Hidalgo del Parral, Chih. Ojinaga, Chih . Sierra Mojada, Coah. Monclova, Coah. Linares, N. L. Soto la Marina, Tamps.

POSICION APROX.

Lat.

Long.

31°47'

116°37'

30 43

111 44

29 26

110 24

30 38

106 31

28°58'

107° 50'

26 56

105 49

29 24

104 25

27 17

103 42

26 55

101 26

24 52

99 34

23 46

98 12

Estas estaciones son de categoría termo-pluviométrica y envían, diariamente, a la Oficina Central de Tacubaya, para los estudios de previsión del tiempo a corto plazo, un telegrama con los datos de la observación que efectúan a las 6.30 horas, del meridiano 90 ° de Greenwich y que comprenden: los de temperatura máxima y temperatura mínima dentro de las 24 horas anteriores ; lluvia caída dentro de las 24 horas anteriores ; dirección y velocidad estimativa del viento y nubosidad, a la hora de la observación , y aspecto dominante del cielo durante las 24 horas anteriores . (Estos datos no están comprendidos dentro de los que se envían diariamente a los Estados Unidos, actualmente).
Es de suponerse que las nuevas estaciones que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos propone crear, aparte de las observaciones de temperatura y lluvia harían observaciones de la presión atmosférica, del viento y de la nubosidad ; mas quizá sería conveniente tomar en cuenta la localización de las termopluviométricas ya existentes, en vista de la necesidad de que los puntos que se elijan estén comunicados telegráficamente con el centro y de la ventaja de contar con estadística anterior de temperatura y de lluvia.
A los puntos anteriores pueden agregarse dos, comunicados telegráficamente con la capital y en los que también existen estaciones termo-pluviométricas, pero que no envían actualmente sus datos diarios por telégrafo . Son:

Presa de la Angostura, Son. y Lampazos, N. L. ·

· · · Lat.: 30° 17' ; Long: 109° 16' 66 27° 2; 66 100°31'

El Gobierno de México ha estado siempre dispuesto a cooperar con

el de los Estados Unidos en los estudios meteorológicos. Desde hace

tres años, el Gobierno Federal ha venido mejorando activamente la red de observatorios y próximamente será inaugurado uno especial,

de Climatología Agrícola, en la Escuela Nacional de Agricultura, habiéndose invitado para su inauguración al Dr. C. W. Thornthwaite,

del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos, quien se ha distinguido por su buen deseo de cooperar con nosotros en esa rama.

4055

4056

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

La red Mexicana de estaciones meteorológicas se ha ido mejorando, a partir de 1941 , en la forma manifiesta que aparece a continuación:

En 1940 había en total sólo 346 estaciones.

En 1941 , funcionaron 614 estaciones, como sigue:
Pluviométricas . Termopluviométricas . De Evaporación Meteorológicas .

· 146 302 110 56

En 1942 funcionaron 804 estaciones, como sigue:

Pluviométricas . Termopluviométricas . De Evaporación Meteorológicas .

193 · 425 · 132
54

En 1943 , están funcionando 868 estaciones, como sigue:

Pluviométricas . Termopluviométricas De Evaporación Meteorológicas .

· 202 468 140
· 55

y 3 más, de Radio-sondeo , instaladas a solicitud y con la ayuda de la Oficina Meteorológica Norteamericana.
Sin embargo, nuestro programa de aumento y mejora en la red de Observatorios ha sufrido en los últimos dos años gran dilación y limitación debido a las dificultades encontradas para la adquisición de aparatos en los Estados Unidos . En fecha reciente fué cancelado, por la fábrica Taylor Instruments Co. un pedido de barómetros que le hicimos desde noviembre de 1941 , a los termómetros y barógrafos solicitados con la misma fecha nos han estado siendo entregados por pequeñas partidas que aun no cubren el total contratado.
En el presente caso, la Secretaría de Agricultura espera que el aumento de los datos meteorológicos redunde en gran beneficio para los estudios del tiempo , en ambos países , y pondrá todo su empeño en cumplir con la cooperación que de ella se solicita.

MÉXICO , D. F. , junio 14 de 1943.

61 STAT.]

May 18, 1943 MEXICO- WEATHER STATIONS- June 14, 1943

4057

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS UNITED MEXICAN STATES MEXICO
54229
MR. AMBASSADOR :

MEXICO CITY, June 14, 1943 .

In reply to Your Excellency's courteous note No. 1271 of May 18 last and with reference to my note No. 53859 [ '] of the 2nd of the present month of June, I am happy to inform you that the Government of Mexico is agreeable to nine weather stations being established for the purpose of furnishing, daily, reports useful for better safeguarding military and air transportation operations.
Therefore, the Government of the United States may, whenever it sees fit, send to Mexico City the Weather Bureau official to whom Your Excellency's note refers, for the purpose of making the necessary arrangements with the proper authorities of the Government of Mexico - in this case the Ministry of Agriculture - in connection with everything relative to the location of the said stations, the cooperation which the United States Weather Bureau will extend in the way of furnishing the equipment for the functioning thereof, and the sending, if considered advisable, of one or more experts to instruct the Mexican personnel who will be in charge of the stations in question . The salary of this personnel will be covered by the Government of Mexico .
As an enclosure with this note I transmit to Your Excellency a memorandum containing various information which the Ministry of Agriculture and Development has supplied to the Ministry of Foreign Relations relative to this matter.

I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .

Enclosure.

E. PADILLA

Ante, p. 4053.

His Excellency GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH , Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary ofthe United States of America, City.

¹[Not printed.]

4058

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

MEMORANDUM

Northern region weather stations.

At the present time there are in the northern region of the Republic

the eleven weather stations listed below:

STATIONS:
Ensenada, B. C. Altar, Son. Ures , Son. Villa Ahumada, Chih. Temósachic, Chih. Hidalgo del Parral, Chib. Ojinaga, Chih. Sierra Mojada, Coah. Monclova, Coah. Linares, N. L. Soto la Marina, Tamps.

APPROX. POSITION

Lat.

Long.

31°47'

116 °37'

30 43

111 44

29 26

110 24

30 38

106 31

28°58'

107°50'

26 56

105 49

29 24

104 25

27 17

103 42

26 55

101 26

24 52

99 34

23 46

98 12

These stations are of the thermopluviometric category and despatch, daily, to the Central Bureau in Tacubaya, for short-term weather forecast studies, a telegram with the observation data gathered at 6:30 a. m. on the 90 ° meridian west of Greenwich, which include: maximum temperature and minimum temperature in the previous 24 hours ; rainfall in the previous 24 hours ; direction and estimated velocity of the wind and cloudiness, at the time of the observation, and prevailing aspect of the sky during the previous 24 hours. (These data are not included among those which are despatched daily to the United States, at present. )

It is to be supposed that the new stations which the Government of the United States is proposing to establish would , in addition to their observations of temperature and rainfall make observations of the atmospheric pressure, wind and cloudiness ; but it would perhaps be advisable to take into account the location of already existing pluviometric stations, in view of the necessity of the places selected being connected by telegraph with the Center and of the advantage of taking previous statistics as to temperature and rainfall into account .
To the foregoing places may be added two which are connected by telegraph with the Capital and at which there also are thermo-

pluviometric stations , but which do not at present transmit their daily data by telegraph. They are :

Presa de la Angosture, Son. ... Lat.: 30° 17' ; Long.: 109° 16  and Lampazos, N. L. ... Lat.: 27°2 ; Long .: 100 ° 31  .
Observatory for Agricultural Climatol- The Government of Mexico has always been disposed to cooperate ogy.
with that of the United States in meteorological studies . For three
years the Federal Government has been actively improving the
network of observatories , and a special one for Agricultural Climatology will be opened in the very near future at the National School of

Agriculture, Dr. C. W. Thornthwaite, of the United States Depart-

ment of Agriculture, who has distinguished himself by his desire to cooperate with us in that field , having been invited to the opening thereof.

61 STAT. ]

MEXICO-WEATHER STATIONS-

May 18, 1943 June 14, 1943

4059

The Mexican network of weather stations has been improved , since

Improvement in Mexican network.

1941 , in the manifest way which is apparent from the following:

In 1940 there were only 346 stations in all. In 1941 , 614 stations were in operation, as follows:
Pluviometric . Thermopluviometric Evaporation . Meteorological .·

· 146 302 110 56

In 1942 , 804 stations were in operation, as follows: Pluviometric . Thermopluviometric · Evaporation Meteorological
In 1943, 868 stations are in operation as follows:
Pluviometric . Thermopluviometric Evaporation · Meteorological .

· 193 425 132 54
· 202 468 140 55

and three more, radiometeorographic stations , established at the request and with the help of the United States Weather Bureau.
Our program of increasing and improving the network of Observatories has nevertheless, in the last two years , suffered great delay and limitation, due to the difficulties encountered in the acquisition of apparatus from the United States. Recently an order for barometers which we placed with it as far back as November 1941 was canceled by the Taylor Instruments Company factory, and the thermometers and barographs requested at the same time have been delivered to us in small lots which still do not cover the total number ordered .
In the present case, the Department of Agriculture hopes that the increase in meteorological data will result in great benefit to weather studies, in both countries, and will devote its every endeavor to carrying out the cooperation which is requested of it.

MEXICO, D. F. , June 14, 1943.

4060

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

November 6, 1945, and
April 12, 1946
[T. I. A. S. 1807]

Agreement between the United States of America and Mexico respecting a cooperative program for weather stations on Guadalupe Island. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Mexico November 6, 1945, and April 12, 1946 ; entered into force April 12, 1946.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Mexican Ministerfor Foreign Affairs

No. 4488

MEXICO, D. F. , November 6, 1945

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to correspondence between the Embassy and the Ministry in 1943 on the subject of an establishment of several synoptic weather stations in northern Mexico on the basis of 1 a cooperative arrangement between the United States Weather

Bureau and the Mexican Meteorological Service . Reference is made

Ante, p. 4053.

particularly to the following communications . The Embassy's note no. 1271 dated May 18 , 1943, proposing the establishment of a network of nine synoptic stations and informing the Ministry that the United States Government is prepared to provide the necessary

Ante, p. 4057.

equipment for these stations : to the Ministry's note no . 54229 dated June 14 , 1943 , informing the Embassy that the Mexican Govern-

ment is agreeable to the establishment of nine synoptic stations on

the suggested cooperative basis and transmitting a memorandum containing certain information related to the project, as provided by the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs ; and to the Embassy's note no . 1421 dated June 29 , 1943 , [ ' ] informing the Ministry that an official of the United States Weather Bureau has been designated as a technical advisor to consult with officials of the Mexican Government and to complete the necessary arrangements and agreements in connection with the establishment of the nine

stations in question.

Proposed station on Guadalupe Island.

The Embassy was informed several weeks ago by the present repre-

sentative of Mexico of the United States Weather Bureau to the effect

that the Bureau, the Mexican Meteorological Service, and the Mexican Army have for some time been interested in the establishment of a meteorological station on Guadalupe Island off the coast of Lower California and that these agencies of the United States and Mexican Governments consider this location to be a very important one from a meteorological standpoint with reference to the civilian and military interests of the two countries . In view of the joint interests of the United States Weather Bureau, the Mexican Meteorological Service, and the Mexican Army in the establishment of such a station on a cooperative basis , the United States Weather Bureau has approached

1 [Not printed.]

61 STAT. ]

Nov. 6, 1945 MEXICO- WEATHER STATIONS-
Apr. 12, 1946

the Department of State with a draft of a cooperative arrangement that has been discussed informally and apparently approved by these agencies of the United States and Mexican Governments and the Embassy has been instructed by the Department to formally convey to the Ministry the desire and willingness of the United States Government to effect the establishment of such a program by an exchange of notes between the Embassy and the Ministry. The Embassy has been instructed to suggest for the consideration of the appropriate authorities of the Mexican Government that the agreement include the following obligations on the part of the United States Weather Bureau, the Mexican Meteorological Service, and the Mexican Army.
The United States Weather Bureau to provide :
1. Complete set of meteorological equipment and instruments for the purpose of taking synoptic observations.
2. Radio transmitter and receiver for communication of weather data .
3. Gasoline driven motor-generator power supply. 4. Building for living and working quarters of temporary nature.
This probably will be a prefabricated structure to permit easy transportation . 5. Provide for instruction of personnel in observational procedures by competent instructor. 6. Provide for technical assistance in connection with installing buildings and meteorological equipment.
The Mexican Army, through the Segunda Zona Militar, to provide :
1. Labor crew on the island for the purpose of completing a trail or road to the proposed site, and to accomplish the necessary construction work.
2. Provide means for transportating (sic) building materials and equipment from the boat landing to the proposed site.
3. Provide gasoline and oil and such other supplies as may be needed by Mexican Army personnel assigned to the station .
4. Assign at least two non-commissioned officers to the station for the purpose of taking meteorological observations at specified hours and communicating the messages to the mainland.
5. Permit a United States Navy or Coast Guard boat to transport the equipment and materials required from San Diego, California or if so desired arrange for transportation of said equipment through Mexican facilities.
The Mexican Meteorological Service to provide the following:
1. The assignment of a Mexican Meteorological Service Official to accompany the Weather Bureau technician to the island to cooperate in the training of personnel and establishment of the station .

95347-50-PT. IV- 46

4061

4062

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
2. Provide for the reception of transmitted radio reports at Hermosillo, Sonora or other point to be designated and arrange for their transmission to Ciudad Juárez, Chih. in time for inclusion with reports from other cooperative international stations .
3. Make the necessary arrangements with the Mexican Army for the assignment of suitable personnel to the station.
I have the honor to suggest to Your Excellency that the abovesuggested cooperative agreement if approved by the Government of Mexico be concluded by an exchange of notes between the Embassy and the Ministry consisting of the present communication and the Ministry's reply thereto .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
RAYMOND H. GEIST
His Excellency Señor don FRANCISCO CASTILLO NÁJERA, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mexico, D. F.

The Mexican Ministry of Foreign Relations to the American Embassy
SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES ESTADOS UNIDOS MEXICANOS MEXICO
54287

La Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores saluda muy atentamente a la

Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América , y con nueva referencia a su nota número 4488 , del 6 de noviembre de 1945 , relativa al proyecto

para establecer una estación meteorológica en la isla de Guadalupe,

frente a las costas de la Baja California, sobre bases de cooperación, tiene el agrado de manifestarle que la Secretaría de la Defensa Nacional

y la de Agricultura y Fomento , a las que se consultó su parecer al respecto, han manifestado que convienen en la realización del proyecto

de que se trata, pero por lo que se refiere a la segunda de las citadas

Dependencias del Ejecutivo, su cooperación quedará regulada de acuerdo con la relación que se anexa a la presente.

La Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores aprovecha esta oportunidad para reiterar a la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América las

seguridades de su más alta y distinguida consideración. [ ']

ANEXO.

MÉXICO D. F. , a 12 de abril de 1946.

BASES PARA LA COOPERACION DE LA SECRETARIA DE AGRICULTURA Y FOMENTO AL ESTABLECIMIENTO DE UNA ESTACION METEOROLOGICA EN LA ISLA DE GUADALUPE.
I. - Proporcionará un inspector técnico para que , en compañía de un oficial técnico de enlace del Servicio Norteamericano , se dirija a la
[This note is signed by a rubric rather than by a name or initials. ]

61 STAT. ]

Nov. 6, 1945 MEXICO-WEATHER STATIONS-
Apr. 12, 1946

4063

isla de Guadalupe para efectuar la instalación del equipo meteorológico , tan pronto como éste se encuentre en camino a dicho lugar o haya desembarcado y arribado al edificio destinado para el Observatorio.
2.- El mismo inspector adiestrará e instruirá debidamente al personal técnico encargado de las operaciones técnicas del Observatorio.
3.- Convendrá en los arreglos necesarios para la expedición de boletines y concentración y retransmisión de los mismos en Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua, para su envío a las Oficinas del Servicio Norteamericano .
4.- Por razones presupuestales proporcionará solamente las cantidades necesarias para cubrir el cincuenta por ciento de los honorarios que corresponda al mismo personal técnico , esperando que el otro cincuenta por ciento sea cubierto por el Servicio Norteamericano , que había ofrecido pagar íntegramente a todo el personal de los Observatorios de Cooperación Internacional.
5.- Por intermedio del Servicio Meteorológico Mexicano controlará todas las operaciones técnicas, expedición y transmisión de boletines , incorporando el Observatorio de la isla de Guadalupe a la red del Servicio Nacional Mexicano , pero adaptándolo a las necesidades del Ejército Nacional y del Servicio Norteamericano , en lo que respecta a horarios de observación y expedición de boletines, en la misma forma en que ha venido atendiendo las solicitudes respectivas en relación con las operaciones de los demás Observatorios de Cooperación Internacional .
6.- Los arreglos para la concurrencia de la Segunda Zona Militar y del Servicio Norteamericano quedarán a cargo de la Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS UNITED MEXICAN STATES MEXICO
54287

The Ministry of Foreign Relations presents its compliments to the Embassy of the United States of America and, again referring to its note No. 4488 of November 6 , 1945 relative to the plan for establishing a weather station on the Island of Guadalupe off the coast of Baja California on a cooperative basis, is happy to inform it that the Ministry of National Defense and of Agriculture and Development, whose opinion is sought in regard thereto, have stated that they are agreeable to the carrying out of the plan in question, but, with reference to the second of the Executive Branches mentioned, its cooperation will be governed in accordance with the report herewith enclosed .
The Ministry of Foreign Relations avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Embassy of the United States of America the assurances of its highest and most distinguished consideration. [ ']

Ante, p. 4060.

Enclosure

MEXICO, D. F. , April 12, 1946.

1 [This note is signed by a rubric rather than by a name or initials.]

4064

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
BASES FOR COOPERATION OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND DEVELOPMENT IN THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A WEATHER STATION ON THE ISLAND OF GUADALUPE.
1. It will supply a technical inspector to accompany a technical liaison officer of the United States Service to the Island of Guadalupe and carry out the installation of the meteorological equipment, as soon as this is on its way to the Island or has been unloaded and has arrived at the building intended for the Observatory .
2. The same inspector will duly train and instruct the technical personnel responsible for the technical operations of the Observatory.
3. It will agree to the necessary arrangements for the issuance of bulletins and concentration and retransmission thereof at Ciudad Juarez , Chihuahua, for their despatch to the Offices of the United States Service.
4. For budgetary reasons it will furnish only those amounts necessary for covering fifty percent of the honoraria for the said technical personnel, expecting the other fifty percent to be covered by the United States Service , which had offered to pay in full all the personnel of the International Cooperation Observatories.
5. It will, through the intervention of the Mexican Weather Service, control all technical operations , issuance and transmission of bulletins, incorporating the Observatory on Guadalupe Island into the network of the Mexican National Service, but adapting it to the requirements of the National Army and of the United States Service, as regards observation schedules and issuance of bulletins, in the same way that it has been complying with their respective requests in connection with the operations of the other International Cooperation Observatories.
6. Arrangements for concurrence of the Second Military Area and the United States Service shall remain the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Relations.

Aug. 13, 1947 61 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM--U. S. NAVAL BASE AT ARGENTIA-
Oct. 23, 1947

4065

Agreement between the United States of America and the United August 131,9O47ctober 23, Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting the delim- [T. I. A. S. 1809] iting of the area within Newfoundland territorial waters adjacent to the United States Naval Base at Argentia . Effected by exchange of notes signed at London August 13 and October 23, 1947; entered into force October 23, 1947.

The British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

No. AN2793/107/45.

FOREIGN OFFICE, S. W. 1. 13th August, 1947.

YOUR EXCELLENCY,

I have the honour to inform you that discussions have taken place between the competent authorities of the United States and Newfoundland with the view of delimiting the area within Newfoundland

territorial waters adjacent to the United States Naval Base at Argentia over which the United States may exercise rights in accordance with the paragraph ( 1 ) of Article 1 of the Agreement signed in London on the 27th March, 1941 , relating to the Bases Leased to the United States of America.

55 Stat. 1560.

2. As the result of these discussions a draft agreement has been drawn up and, subject to certain modifications of form and wording, has received the approval of His Majesty's Governments in the United Kingdom , Canada and Newfoundland . The revised terms of the agreement are given in the Annex to the present note.

3. I have now the honour to inform Your Excellency that His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom desire that the agreement should be confirmed by means of an exchange of notes . If therefore the Government of the United States likewise approve of the revised terms of agreement as annexed hereto , I would propose that the present note and Your Excellency's reply to that effect should be regarded as placing on record the formal confirmation of the provisions of the agreement by the Governments of the United Kingdom and the United States of America.
I have the honour to be with the highest consideration , Your Excellency's obedient Servant, (For the Secretary of State) P STEPHENS
His Excellency, The Honourable , LEWIS W. DOUGLAS,
etc. , etc. , etc. , 1 Grosvenor Square , W.1 .

4066

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

(AN 2793/107/45)

ANNEX .

55 Stat. 1560.
55 Stat. 1561. 55 Stat. 1599. 55 Stat. 1561 , 1565.
55 Stat. 1560.

Whereas, in paragraph 1 of Article 1 of the Agreement signed in London on the 27th March, 1941 , relating to the Bases leased to the United States of America, it is provided , among other things, that the United States shall have all the rights , power and authority within the limits of territorial waters and air spaces adjacent to , or in the vicinity of the Leased Areas, which are necessary to provide access to and defence of the Leased Areas, or appropriate for the control thereof ; and
Whereas, in paragraph 4 of Article 1 of the said Agreement it is provided that in the practical application outside the Leased Areas of the preceding paragraphs there shall be, as occasion requires, consultation between the Government of the United States and the Government of the United Kingdom ; and
Whereas in paragraph 4 of the Protocol to the said Agreement it is agreed that in all consultations concerning Newfoundland arising out of Article I (4 ) , II and XI (5 ) of the Agreement or of any other Articles involving considerations of defence, the Canadian Government as well as the Government of Newfoundland will have the right to participate ; and
Whereas the waters in the vicinity of Argentia, including anchorages, channels and approaches, are demonstrated to be, in general, the maximum area of territorial water necessary to the United States Forces at Argentia to exercise the rights , power and authority conferred by Article 1 of the said Agreement ;
Now therefore it is agreed between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the United States of America after consultations in which the Governments of Canada and Newfoundland have participated that the limits of the territorial waters at Argentia within which the United States shall exercise the said rights, power and authority shall be the water areas included in the boundaries defined by a line joining the following points .
Beginning at Moll Point northwest of Placentia (at approximately mean tide level) a hundred and eighty and a half degrees three point nought nought miles (180 ° 3.00 miles) from Latine point flashing light which is in position Latitude forty-seven (47) degrees eighteen ( 18) minutes fifty five (55 ) seconds North, longitude fifty four (54) degrees nought (0) minutes thirty five (35) seconds West approximately. Thence due west (true) for a distance of three (3) nautical miles .
Thence due north (true) for a distance of six point five four (6.54) nautical miles.
Thence due east (true) for a distance of four point nought nought (4.00) nautical miles.
Thence one hundred and one degrees (true) for a distance of two point seven three miles ( 101 ° 2.73 miles) to the shore line in Big Seal Cove (at approximately mean tide level) .

Aug. 13, 1947 61 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM-U. S. NAVAL BASE AT ARGENTIA-
Oct. 23, 1947

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

YOUR EXCELLENCY,

AMERICAN EMBASSY London, October 23, 1947

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's Note of August 13 , 1947 ( NO. AN 2793/107/45) to which there were annexed the revised terms of the agreement delimiting the waters adjacent to the United States Naval Base in Newfoundland . Your Excellency stated that His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom desired that the agreement should be confirmed by an exchange of Notes .

The Government of the United States of America has approved of the revised terms of the agreement, as annexed hereto , and I now have the honor to state that the present Note and Your Excellency's Note of August 13 , 1947 , are to be regarded as placing on record the formal confirmation of the provisions of the agreement by the Governments of the United States of America and of the United Kingdom.
Accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest consideration . W. J. GALLMAN
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

The Right Honorable ERNEST BEVIN, M.P. , Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, The Foreign Office, London, S.W.1.

4067

ANNEX

Whereas, in paragraph 1 of Article 1 of the Agreement signed in London on the 27th March, 1941 , relating to the Bases leased to the United States of America, it is provided , among other things , that the United States shall have all the rights , power and authority within the limits of territorial waters and air spaces adjacent to , or in the vicinity of the Leased Areas, which are necessary to provide access to and defence of the Leased Areas, or appropriate for the control thereof; and
Whereas, in paragraph 4 of Article 1 of the said Agreement is is
provided that in the practical application outside the Leased Areas of the preceding paragraphs there shall be, as occasion requires, consultation between the Government of the United States and the Government of the United Kingdom ; and
Whereas in paragraph 4 of the Protocol to the said Agreement it is agreed that in all consultations concerning Newfoundland arising out of Article I (4) , II and XI (5) of the Agreement or of any other

55 Stat. 1560.
55 Stat. 1561. 55 Stat. 1599. 55 Stat. 1561, 1565.

4068

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Articles involving considerations of defence, the Canadian Govern-

ment as well as the Government of Newfoundland will have the right

to participate ; and

Whereas the waters in the vicinity of Argentia, including anchorages,

channels and approaches, are demonstrated to be, in general , the

maximum area of territorial water necessary to the United States

55 Stat. 1560.
Limits of territorial waters at Argentia for eextce.rcise of U.S. rights,

Forces at Argentia to exercise the rights, power and authority conferred by Article 1 of the said Agreement ;
Now therefore it is agreed between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the United States of America after consultations in which the

Governments of Canada and Newfoundland have participated that the limits of the territorial waters at Argentia within which the United States shall exercise the said rights, power and authority shall be the water areas included in the boundaries defined by a line

joining the following points . Beginning at Moll Point northwest of Placentia (at approximately
mean tide level ) a hundred and eighty and a half degrees three point nought nought miles ( 180-1 /2 ° 3.00 miles) from Latine point flashing light which is in position Latitude forty-seven (47 ) degrees eighteen (18) minutes fifty five (55 ) seconds North, longitude fifty four (54) degrees nought (0) minutes thirty five (35) seconds West approximately. Thence due west (true) for a distance of three (3 ) nautical miles .

Thence due north (true) for a distance of six point five four (6.54) nautical miles

Thence due east (true ) for a distance of four point nought nought (4.00) nautical miles.

Thence one hundred and one degrees (true) for a distance of two point seven three miles ( 101 ° 2.73 miles ) to the shore line in Big Seal Cove (at approximately mean tide level).

61 STAT. ] CANADA-RUSH-BAGOT AGREEMENT-FeJbune 9, 10, 1939 , Oct. 30, Nov. 2, 1940 4069 . 26, Mar. 9, 1942, Nov. 18, Dec. 6 , 1946

Understandings between the United States of America and Canada Ju3n0e, 9N, o1v0., 1923,9, 1O9c4t0.,

regarding the Rush-Bagot Agreement of April 28 and 29, 1817, respect-

Feb. 26, Mar. 9, 1942, Nov. 18, Dec.

ing naval forces on the American Lakes. Effected by exchanges of 6, 1946

notes signed at Ottawa June 9 and 10, 1939 , entered into force June [T. I. A. S. 1836]

10, 1939; signed at Ottawa October 30 and November 2, 1940, entered

into force November 2, 1940 ; signed at Ottawa February 26 and

March 9, 1942, entered into force March 9, 1942 ; signed at Washington

November 18 and December 6, 1946, entered into force December 6, 1946.

CONSTRUCTION OF NAVAL VESSELS ON THE GREAT LAKES
Exchange of notes signed at Ottawa June 9 and 10, 1939-Entered into force June 10, 1939

The American Minister to the Canadian Under- Secretary of State for External Affairs

AMERICAN LEGATION OTTAWA, CANADA. June 9, 1939.

MY DEAR DR. SKELTON : In a confidential letter addressed to the Secretary of State on
January 31 , 1939 , [' ] Admiral Leahy, the Acting Secretary of the Navy, raised certain questions regarding the Rush-Bagot Agreement of 1817. Among other things , Admiral Leahy requested the views of Mr. Hull concerning the mounting of two 4-inch guns on each of the American naval vessels on the Great Lakes, to be used in firing target practice in connection with the training of naval reserves . He inquired, if this was considered improper, concerning the possibility of modifying the Rush-Bagot Agreement to permit this practice . The question was subsequently the subject of informal conversations between officers of our State and Navy Departments .
After careful consideration of the problem, Mr. Hull is inclined to the opinion that a modification of the Rush-Bagot Agreement would be undesirable at this time. It is clear from a study of the documents relating to the negotiation of the Agreement and its early history that the objective of the negotiators was to provide a solution of an immediate and urgent problem arising out of the war of 1812 and the terms of the Agreement themselves support the view that its indefinite continuation in force was not anticipated . Consequently, from a naval standpoint, its provisions have long been out of date, but in spite of numerous vicissitudes the Agreement itself has survived unchanged for more than one hundred and twenty years and, with the passage of time, has assumed a symbolic importance in the eyes of

8 Stat. 231.

1 [Not printed.]

4070

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

our own and Canadian citizens . It is true that shortly after the World War modification of the Agreement was studied in this country and in Canada, with a view to making its provisions conform more closely to modern conditions, and a stage was even reached where the Governments exchanged drafts of suggested changes. The proposed changes were never actually agreed upon, however, and Mr. Hull is inclined to think that the two Governments were wise to allow the matter to fall into abeyance, since it is highly debatable whether the realization of their limited objectives would have compensated for the disappearance of the 1817 Agreement as a symbol of the friendly relations between the two countries for over a century.
It was perhaps inevitable that an agreement, the technical provisions of which became obsolete more than half a century ago, should from time to time have been subjected to what may have been considered technical violations by both parties, and of such instances there is a clear record . We believe it can be successfully maintained , however, that without a degree of tolerance the Agreement could scarcely have survived to the present day in its original form. But it is a fact of equal significance that even when the two Governments felt compelled to depart from a strict observance of its terms they were concerned that the spirit underlying it should be preserved .
I understand from information furnished by our Navy Department that the following five vessels of the United States Navy are now serving on the Great Lakes:

Ship
DUBUQUE HAWK PADUCAH WILMINGTON WILMETTE

Launched Present Location

1905 1891 1905 1897 1903

Detroit Michigan City Duluth Toledo Chicago

Displacement Battery

1085

None

375

None

1085

None

1392

None

2600 4-4' /50

2-3''/50A.A.

2-1 pdr.

In a number of respects the presence there of these vessels may not be considered entirely in keeping with a literal interpretation of the Rush-Bagot Agreement. On the other hand, it seems proper to take into account the fact that the vessels of our Navy now on the Great Lakes are there with the knowledge of the Canadian Government, written permission having been obtained for the passage of four of them through the Canadian canals en route to their stations . The case of the Wilmette is somewhat different, this vessel having been constructed on the lakes as a commercial vessel and subsequently taken over by our Navy during the World War.
In considering the number and size, disposition, functions and armaments of naval vessels in relation to the provisions of the RushBagot Agreement, it is Mr. Hull's view, with which I feel sure you will agree, that the primary concern of both Governments is to maintain at all costs the spirit which underlies that Agreement and which is representative of the feelings of the Canadian and American people

61 STAT. ] CANADA- RUSH-BAGOT AGREEMENT June 9, 10, 1939, Oct. 30. Nov. 2, 1940 4071 Feb. 26, Mar. 9, 1942, Nov. 18, Dec. 6, 1946
toward each other. With that clear objective in mind, Mr. Hull wishes me to make the following observations.
( 1 ) Number and size of vessels . As indicated above, the United
States Navy now has five vessels, all "unclassified " , on the Great Lakes. In the discussion of this problem between officials of the State and Navy Departments, the fact was brought out that approximately one third of the national naval reserve personnel in the United States is concentrated in the region of which Chicago is the center, The need for adequate training of this personnel is clear and I am given to understand that even with our present five vessels on the Great Lakes our facilities are strained . A possible alternative would be to transport these reserves to the Atlantic Coat every summer for the customary two weeks ' training period , but I am told that the cost of so transporting even a small fraction of these reserves would in all probability be prohibitive. In the circumstances and in view of the fact that these five vessels have been maintained on the Great Lakes since the war without objection on the part of the Canadian Government, Mr. Hull is inclined to think that the withdrawal of one of them would not be necessary.
Mr. Hull would be reluctant, however, to see American vessels on the Great Lakes increased beyond the present number, omitting from this calculation vessels which are "retained immobile" and used solely as floating barracks for naval reserves. The Canadian Government has in the past given permission for vessels of the latter category to be maintained on the Great Lakes and , it is hoped, would give sympathetic consideration to any similar requests which might be made in the future.
It is my understanding that the Sacramento, a vessel of 1,140 tons launched in 1914 and similar in size and type to vessels already on the Great Lakes , is now returning from China, her usefulness as an active naval vessel in regular commission having passed . I am informed that the Navy Department will probably wish this vessel to take the place of the Hawk, but that this will not involve an increase in the number of our naval vessels on the lakes. A formal request of your Government for permission for this vessel to proceed to the Great Lakes through Canadian waters will be made in due course.
With regard to the size of these vessels , it has been noted that all are of more than one hundred tons burden , the limit imposed by the Agreement. The change from wood to steel around the middle of the last century, along with other factors , contributed toward rendering this part of the Agreement obsolete. To our knowledge no objection has been taken by the Canadian Government to the presence on the Great Lakes of naval vessels of more than one hundred tons burden and there would be no inclination to question the maintenance by Canada of vessels similar to ours now operating there. It appears to have been the practice of our Navy Department for many years to station on the Great Lakes only "unclassified" vessels that have long since outlived their usefulness in terms of modern warfare

4072

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
and that have a draft of not more than fourteen feet . I understand that these vessels have and could have no use except to provide elementary training for naval reserves . Mr. Hull believes that it would be desirable to continue this policy, which goes beyond the objectives of the 1817 Agreement, but which is so clearly in keeping with the present temper of public opinion . He is so informing the Navy Department.
(2) Disposition of Vessels . At the time the Rush-Bagot Agreement was negotiated the Great Lakes were independent inland waters with no navigable connection between them and the ocean or, in most cases , between the lakes themselves. This geographical fact was no doubt largely responsible for the provision of the Agreement which allotted one vessel to Lake Champlain , one to Lake Ontario and two to the so-called "Upper Lakes" . That situation, of course, no longer exists, and Mr. Hull would not regard it as unreasonable or contrary to the spirit of the Rush-Bagot Agreement to have the naval vessels of each party move freely in the Great Lakes basin or to "maintain" them at any port or ports in the lakes . Were the Canadian Government to act in accordance with such an interpretation, it is certain that no objection would be taken.
(3) Functions of the Vessels . In his letter of January 31 , last, Admiral Leahy inquired whether the firing of target practice on the Great Lakes was consistent with the provisions of the Rush-Bagot Agreement. Since the Agreement is silent with respect to the functions of the naval vessels maintained by the two parties on the Great Lakes, other than to state that the naval force of each party is to be restricted to such services as will in no respect interfere with the proper duties of the armed vessels of the other party, it is clearly within the letter as well as the spirit of the Agreement for the naval vessels of both parties to be employed in the training of naval reserves or in any other normal activity, including the firing of target practice, within their respective territorial waters. Mr. Hull is so informing the Navy Department.
(4) Armaments. In Admiral Leahy's letter, the hope was expressed that the Rush-Bagot Agreement might be modified so as to permit each of our naval vessels to carry not over two 4-inch guns .
The Agreement itself provides that each of the naval vessels maintained by each Government may carry one 18-pound cannon. It is my understanding that the shell for a 3-inch gun weighs approximately fourteen pounds and the shell for a 4-inch gun approximately thirty pounds. It would therefore be within the scope of the Agreement for each of the naval vessels in question to carry one 3-inch gun. In the discussions between officers of the State and Navy Departments, however, it was brought out that since the 4-inch gun is now what is considered "standard equipment", whereas the 3-inch gun is not, the use of the former is much more desirable from the point of view of giving adequate training to our naval reserves.

61 STAT. ] CANADA- RUSH-BAGOT AGREEMENT- June 9, 10, 1939, Oct. 30, Nov. 2, 19404073 Feb. 26, Mar. 9, 1942, Nov. 18, Dec. 6, 1946

After careful consideration of this problem, Mr. Hull is of the opinion that the following proposal would be in harmony with the spirit of the Rush-Bagot Agreement ; namely, the placing of two 4-inch guns on each of three naval vessels on the Great Lakes, and the removal of all other armaments, subject to certain conditions. These are that the firing of target practice be confined to the territorial waters of the United States, and that the 4-inch guns be dismantled except in the summer season during the period of the training of naval reserves.
There remains a question which is of definite interest to both Governments, namely, the construction of naval vessels in shipyards situated on the Great Lakes. The State Department has recently received renewed inquiries on this question.
The Rush-Bagot Agreement, after providing for the maintenance of four naval vessels of each party on the Great Lakes, stipulated that
"All other armed vessels on those lakes shall be forthwith dismantled and no other vessels of war shall be there built or armed."

The provision just quoted should , Mr. Hull believes, be read in the

light of the geographical factor to which reference has already been

made. At a time when there was no navigable connection between

the Great Lakes and the Atlantic Ocean, it was obvious that naval

vessels constructed on the lakes could only be intended for use in those

waters. Mr. Hull is satisfied that it was this contingency alone which

the contracting parties wished to guard against, for no evidence what-

ever exists to suggest that either party at any time considered that the Agreement should affect the naval forces of the two countries outside the Great Lakes area.
In the circumstances, Mr. Hull believes that it would be entirely Construction of naval vessels in ship-
in harmony with the intent of the negotiators and the spirit of the yards on Great Lakes.

Agreement for either country to permit naval vessels, unquestionably intended for tidewater service only, to be constructed in shipyards situated on the Great Lakes . In order carefully to preserve the intent

of the Agreement, however, it is believed that prior to the commencement of construction each Government should provide the other with full information concerning any naval vessels to be constructed at Great Lake ports ; that such vessels should immediately be removed from the lakes upon their completion ; and that no armaments whatever should be installed until the vessels reach the seaboard .

I shall be happy to receive for Mr. Hull's informal and confidential

information any observations which you may wish to make with regard

to the questions touched on in this letter. Sincerely yours,
Dr. O. D. SKELTON,

DANIEL C. ROPER.

Under-Secretary of State for External Affairs, Ottawa.

4074 8 Stat. 231.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

The Canadian Under-Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Minister
OFFICE OF THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE
FOR EXTERNAL AFFAIRS CANADA

MY DEAR MR. ROPER,

OTTAWA, 10th June, 1989

I have consulted the Acting Prime Minister and Secretary of State for External Affairs and the Department of National Defence con-

cerning your informal letter of June 9th, 1939, which conveys the observations of the Secretary of State of the United States upon certain questions raised by the United States Navy Department regarding the Rush-Bagot Agreement of 1817.
The Canadian Government concur fully in the desirability of preserving this long-standing Agreement which has been of such inestimable value in furthering the ideals of good neighbourhood in this region of the world. It is also recognised that the great changes in technical, industrial , water transport and population conditions which have occurred in the meantime, while in no sense altering the desire of both peoples to maintain the underlying spirit and objective of the Agreement, have rendered its technical scheme and definitions somewhat out of date. It might be urged that the logical method of dealing with the changed situation would be the conclusion of some formal revision of the Agreement, but it is further recognised that the drafting of a new document which would cover present and future considerations of interest to both countries might present difficulties at the present time, and it is noted that Mr. Hull is inclined to the opinion that this would be undesirable.

If formal revision is, as we agree, impracticable, it is nevertheless recognised that there are certain measures which are mutually considered to be practically necessary or desirable and, at the same time, to be consistent with the underlying objective of the Agreement though not strictly consistent with its technical scheme or definitions. In the case of various instances of this character which have occurred

in the past, the two Governments have consulted and made appropriate dispositions by means of correspondence . It is felt that such

procedure, which appears to be essentially inherent in the underlying spirit and objective, should be pursued as regards any new practical measures concerning naval vessels on the Great Lakes which may be contemplated at the present moment or in the future.

In the light of these general considerations it will be convenient to give you the views of the Canadian Government regarding the partic-

ular measures which your Government now consider desirable and which have been described in your letter under separate headings.

(1 ) Number and size of vessels . I note that there is no proposal to increase the present number of United States naval vessels on the Great Lakes. As regards the proposed substitution of the HAWK, which is now on the Lakes, by another vessel, the SACRAMENTO, it is noted also that a formal request of the Canadian Government for

61 STAT. ] CANADA- RUSH-BAGOT AGREEMENT- June 9, 10, 1939, Oct. 30, Nov. 2, 19404075 Feb. 26, Mar. 9, 1942, Nov. 18, Dec. 6, 1946
permission for the latter vessel to proceed into the Great Lakes through Canadian waters will be made in due course. The Canadian authorities will be agreeable to this substitution , and I assume that at the time particular information will be given as to the disposition of the HAWK as well as a description of the SACRAMENTO and the purpose of the substitution.
(2) Disposition of Vessels . It is recognised , for the reasons indi-
cated in your letter, that it would be consistent with the underlying purpose of the Agreement to have the naval vessels of each party move freely in the Great Lakes or to maintain them at any of its ports in the Lakes .
(3) Functions of the Vessels . The Rush-Bagot Agreement, as your letter points out, is silent with respect to the functions of the naval vessels maintained by the two parties on the Great Lakes other than to state that the naval force of each party is to be restricted to such services as will in no respect interfere with the proper duties of the armed vessels of the other party. The Canadian Government accordingly recognise that it is within the letter as well as the spirit of the Agreement for such naval vessels of both parties to be employed in the training of naval reserves, or in any other normal activity, including the firing of target practice, within their respective territorial waters .
(4) Armaments . It appears that in view of present-day technical conditions, the United States naval authorities regard 3-inch guns as no longer adequate for the purpose of training naval reserves , whereas 4-inch guns, though not strictly within the technical definition of the Agreement, would be suitable for that purpose . Accordingly Mr. Hull suggests the following proposal as being in harmony with the spirit of the Agreement, namely, the placing of two 4-inch guns on each of three of the United States naval vessels on the Great Lakes and the removal of all other armaments, subject to certain conditions. These conditions are that the firing of target practice be confined to the territorial waters of the United States and that the 4-inch guns be dismantled except in the summer season during the period of the training of naval reserves . The Canadian naval authorities concur in the view of the United States naval authorities above indicated , and the Canadian Government agree that Mr. Hull's proposal is consistent with the underlying purpose and spirit of the Agreement. It is assumed that in due course the Canadian Government will be informed of the names of the vessels upon which the 4 -inch guns have been placed . It is also assumed that , should any alteration as regards armament take place in any of the five vessels in the future, particulars will be furnished .
A further particular question is raised by your letter, namely, the construction of naval vessels in shipyards situated on the Great Lakes. Careful consideration has been given to Mr. Hull's observations regarding the changes in actual conditions that have occurred in this regard during the past century, and to the suggestion he has made in order to preserve the intent of the Agreement . The suggestion is

4076

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
that prior to the commencement of construction, each Government should provide the other with full information concerning any naval vessels to be constructed at Great Lakes ports ; that such vessels should immediately be removed from the Lakes upon their completion ; and that no armaments whatever should be installed until the vessels reach the seaboard . The Canadian Government appreciate the force of Mr. Hull's observations, and they agree that his particular suggestion would be consistent with the underlying objective of the Agreement . They would understand that in the case of each vessel so constructed, when the time came for her removal to the seaboard, the Government concerned would make the usual request through diplomatic channels for permission to pass through the other party's waters .
As regards all these matters and particular measures, the Canadian Government assume it would be understood that the foregoing observations and understandings, so far as they have been expressed only with relation to United States naval vessels maintained on the Great Lakes or to naval vessels to be constructed in United States shipyards there, will apply equally to the case of any Canadian naval vessels that may be maintained on the Great Lakes or of naval vessels to be constructed in Canadian shipyards there.
Yours sincerely, O. D. SKELTON
The Honourable DANIEL C. ROPER, Minister of the United States of America, United States Legation, Ottawa .

61 STAT. ] CANADA- RUSH-BAGOT AGREEMENT FebJ.une 9, 10, 1939 , Oct. 30, Nov. 2, 1940 4077 26, Mar. 9, 1942, Nov. 18, Dec. 6, 1946

ARMAMENT OF NAVAL VESSELS TO BE INCAPABLE OF IMMEDIATE USE
Exchange of notes signed at Ottawa October 30 and November 2, 1940Entered into force November 2, 1940

The Canadian Under-Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Minister
DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANADA

MY DEAR MR. MOFFAT :

OTTAWA, October 30, 1940.

May I refer to your predecessor's letter of June 9 , 1939, and to my letter to Mr. Roper of the 10th June of the same year concerning certain questions raised by the United States Navy Department regarding the Rush-Bagot Agreement of 1817.

2. At that time it was recognized that there were certain measures which were mutually considered to be practically necessary or desirable and, at the same time, to be consistent with the underlying objective of the Rush-Bagot Agreement, though not strictly consistent with its technical scheme or definitions. In various instances of this character which had occurred in the past , the two Governments had concurred and made appropriate dispositions by means of correspondence. It was also agreed that such a procedure, which appeared to be essentially inherent in the underlying spirit and objective of the Agreement, should be pursued as regards any new practical measures , concerning naval vessels on the Great Lakes, which might be contemplated . 3. Certain special questions including " number and size of the vessels", "disposition of the vessels" , "functions of the vessels " , and "armaments" were discussed and dealt with in the correspondence. A further particular questions was also raised, namely, the construction of naval vessels in shipyards situated on the Great Lakes. The practice and procedure that should be followed in the case of such construction was formulated along lines that met with the approval of the two Governments.

4. The practice that was then approved included the following elements :

Ante, pp. 4069, 4074. 8 Stat. 231.

(a) That each Government should provide the other with full information concerning any naval vessels to be constructed in Great Lakes ports prior to the commencement of construction.
(b) That such vessels should be removed from the Lakes upon their completion.
95347-50- PT. IV- 47

4078

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
(c) That no armaments whatever should be installed until the vessels reached the seaboard .
5. A new aspect of this question has arisen owing to the congestion at the Atlantic seaboard ship-yards and it is the desire of the Canadian Government to have the vessels in the most complete form practicable while still on the Great Lakes . This might involve equipment with gun mounts and with guns which would be so dismantled as to be incapable of immediate use so long as the vessels remained in the Great Lakes.
6. It is therefore suggested that a further interpretation of the RushBagot Agreement might be made in conformity with the basic intent of the Agreement that important naval vessels should not be built for service on the Great Lakes . This would involve recognition that armament might be installed on naval vessels constructed on the Great Lakes provided that :
(a) The vessels are not intended for service on the Great Lakes ; (b) Prior to commencement of construction, each Government fur-
nish the other with full information concerning any vessel to be constructed at Great Lakes ports ; (c) The armaments of the vessels are placed in such condition as to be incapable of immediate use while the vessels remain in the Great Lakes ; and
(d) The vessels are promptly removed from the Great Lakes upon completion.
I should be grateful if you would let me know, in due course, whether the above suggestion commends itself to your Government,
Yours sincerely, O. D. SKELTON
The Honourable PIERREPONT MOFFAT, United States Minister to Canada, United States Legation, Ottawa.

The American Minister to the Canadian Under-Secretary of State for External Affairs

AMERICAN LEGATION

MY DEAR DR. SKELTON :

Ottawa, Canada, November 2, 1940.

I have received your letter of October 30, 1940 , in which, after

Ante, pp. 4069, 4074. referring to Mr. Roper's letter to you of June 9, 1939, and to your

8 Stat. 231.

reply to him of June 10, 1939, concerning certain questions regarding the interpretation of the Rush-Bagot Agreement of 1817, you comment on the previous practice in this regard, in the light of modern conditions

of naval construction, and make the suggestion that a further inter-

pretation of the Rush-Bagot Agreement might be made in conformity with the intent of the Agreement that important naval vessels should

61 STAT. ] CANADA-RUSH-BAGOT AGREEMENT FebJ.un26e, 9M,a1r0., 919, 3199,42Oc, tN.ov3.0,1N8o,vD.ec2., 169, 410946 4079
not be built for service on the Great Lakes . This would involve recognition that armament might be installed on naval vessels constructed on the Great Lakes provided that:
(a) The vessels are not intended for service on the Great Lakes ; (b) Prior to commencement of construction , each Government fur-
nish the other with full information concerning any vessel to be constructed at Great Lakes ports ; (c) The armaments of the vessels are placed in such condition as to be incapable of immediate use while the vessels remain in the Great Lakes ; and (d) The vessels are promptly removed from the Great Lakes upon completion.
In reply, I am authorized to inform you that the United States Government agrees to this further interpretation of the Rush-Bagot Agreement .
Sincerely yours, PIERREPONT MOFFAT.
Dr. O. D. SKELTON, Under-Secretary of State for External Affairs, Ottawa.

4080

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Ante, p. 4077. 8 Stat. 231.

NAVAL VESSELS IN READINESS FOR COMBAT UPON ARRIVAL ON OPEN SEA
Exchange of notes signed at Ottawa February 26 and March 9, 1942-Entered into force March 9, 1942

The American Minister to the Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 611

Ottawa, Canada, February 26, 1942.

SIR:

May I refer to Dr. Skelton's note of October 30, 1940, and my reply of November 2, 1940 , interpreting the Rush-Bagot Agreement in the light of existing conditions and in conformity with the intent of the Agreement. I am now in receipt of instructions from my Government to suggest that in order to permit naval vessels being constructed on the Great Lakes to combat enemy action upon their arrival in the open sea, they be permitted to have their armament placed in complete readiness for action and that all essential tests and trial of machinery and armament, including the submerged operations of submarines and test firing of torpedoes and guns be effected in Great Lakes waters. My Government is in hopes that the Canadian Government will approve the suggestion, it being understood that the proposed procedure is to be effective only for the duration of the present hostilities .
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. PIERREPONT MOFFAT.
The Right Honorable THE SECRETARY OF STATE

for External Affairs, Ottawa.

The Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Minister

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANADA

No.21

OTTAWA, March 9, 1942.

SIR :

I have the honour to refer to your Note No. 611 dated 26th February, 1942 , with regard to the further interpretation of the RushBagot Agreement in the light of existing conditions and in conformity with the intent of the Agreement .

61 STAT. ] CANADA- RUSH-BAGOT AGREEMENT- June 9, 10, 1939, Oct. 30, Nov. 2, 1940 4081 Feb. 26, Mar. 9, 1942, Nov. 18, Dec. 6, 1946
Consideration has been given to your suggestion , and I am now authorized to inform you that the Canadian Government agrees to a further interpretation of the Rush-Bagot Agreement based upon it . Accordingly, in order to permit naval vessels being constructed on the Great Lakes to combat enemy action upon their arrival in the open sea, they will be permitted to have their armament placed in complete readiness for action and all essential tests and trials of machinery and armament including the submerged operations of submarines and test firing of torpedoes and guns may be effected in Great Lakes waters .
The Canadian Government also concurs in your suggestion that this procedure should be effective only for the duration of the present hostilities .
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
N. A ROBERTSON for the Secretary of State for
External Affairs
The Honourable J. PIERREPONT MOFFAT, United States Minister to Canada, United States Legation , Ottawa.

4082

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

NAVAL VESSELS FOR TRAINING NAVAL RESERVE PERSONNEL

Exchange of notes signed at Washington November 18 and December 6, 1946-- Entered into force December 6 , 1946

The Canadian Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

CANADIAN EMBASSY AMBASSADE DU CANADA

No. 421

NOVEMBER 18, 1946.

8 Stat. 231.

SIR, You will recall that the Rush-Bagot Agreement of 1817 has been the

subject of discussion between our Governments on several occasions

in recent years and that notes were exchanged in 1939 , 1940 and Ante, p. 4069 et seq. 1942 relating to the application and interpretation of this Agree-

ment . It has been recognized by both our Governments that the

detailed provisions of the Rush-Bagot Agreement are not applicable to present-day conditions, but that as a symbol of friendly relations

extending over a period of nearly one hundred and thirty years the Agreement possesses great historic importance . It is thus the spirit

of the Agreement rather than its detailed provisions which serves to

guide our Governments in matters relating to naval forces on the Great Lakes .

Discussions have taken place in the Permanent Joint Board on

Defence with regard to the stationing on the Great Lakes of naval

vessels for the purpose of training naval reserve personnel. The naval

authorities of both our Governments regard such a course as valuable

from the point of view of naval training and the Board has recorded

its opinion that such action would be consistent with the spirit of existing agreements . The Canadian Government concurs in this

opinion. In order that the views of our two Governments may be placed on
record , I have the honour to propose that the stationing of naval vessels on the Great Lakes for training purposes by either the Canadian Government or the United States Government shall be regarded as consistent with the spirit of the Rush-Bagot Agreement provided that full information about the number, disposition , functions and armament of such vessels shall be communicated by each Government to the other in advance of the assignment of vessels to service on the Great Lakes. If your Government concurs in this view, this note and your reply thereto shall be regarded as constituting a further inter-

June 9, 10, 1939, Oct. 30 , Nov. 2, 1940

61 STAT.]

CANADA- RUSH-BAGOT AGREEMENT-

4083 Feb. 26, Mar. 9, 1942, Nov. 18, Dec. 6, 1946

pretation of the Rush-Bagot Agreement accepted by our two Governments .
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. H. H. WRONG

The Honourable DEAN ACHESON, Acting Secretary of State, Washington, D. C.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Canadian Ambassador
DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON, D. C. December 6, 1946
EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note No. 421
of November 18, 1946 , in which you advised me that your Government has proposed a further interpretation of the detailed provisions of the Rush-Bagot Agreement. My Government is in complete accord with yours as to the historic importance of this Agreement as a symbol of the friendship between our two countries and agrees that it is the spirit of this Agreement which guides our Governments in matters relating to naval forces on the Great Lakes .
I am now pleased to inform you that my Government concurs with your proposal, namely, that the stationing of naval vessels on the Great Lakes for training purposes by either the Canadian Government or the United States Government shall be regarded as consistent with the spirit of the Rush-Bagot Agreement provided that full information about the number, disposition , functions and armament of such vessels shall be communicated by each Government to the other in advance of the assignment of vessels to service on the Great Lakes.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
DEAN ACHESON
Acting Secretary of State His Excellency
H. H. WRONG, Canadian Ambassador.

4084

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

July 17, August 2, 1944
[T. I. A. S. 1842]

Agreement between the United States of America and Cuba respecting a cooperative program for weather stations in Cuba . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Habana July 17 and August 2, 1944; entered into force August 2, 1944.

The American Ambassador to the Cuban Minister of State

No. 632

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Habana, July 17, 1944

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that preliminary discussions have taken place between representatives of the United States Weather Bureau, Department of Commerce, and the Cuban Meteorological Service regarding the cooperative establishment and operation of a radiosonde station in Cuba to be located in the vicinity of Habana.
Since that time Dr. F. W. Reichelderfer, Chief of the Weather Bureau, has corresponded with Dr. José Carlos Millás , Director of the Cuban Meteorological Service, on the subject, and my Government is informed that as a result the Weather Bureau and the Cuban

Meteorological Service have agreed in principle that it would be desirable for their respective governments to cooperate in the establishment and operation of this station.
Funds have now been appropriated by the Congress of the United States of America to enable the Weather Bureau to proceed with the project under the program of the Interdepartmental Committee on Cooperation with the American Republics. To that end I have the honor to enclose, at the instance of my Government, a Memorandum Agreement setting forth in detail the conditions under which the

Weather Bureau proposes to cooperate with the Cuban Meteorological Service in the establishment and operation of the station .
My Government has already established a network of radiosonde observation stations in the United States , the West Indies, Mexico , and the Canal Zone, and feels that establishment of a station in Cuba

would fill a gap in the network. Radiosonde observations are needed for the protection of military and commercial aircraft operating in this area, and also to provide advance information on destructive

hurricanes that threaten civilian and military installations located in the region of the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico.
Therefore, as in the opinion of my Government this information is of vital importance to both countries, it trusts that the Cuban Government may give the enclosed Memorandum Agreement its urgent consideration and inform it at the earliest possible date whether it finds its contents acceptable.

61 STAT. ]

CUBA-WEATHER STATIONS- July 17, 1944 Aug. 2, 1944

For your Excellency's information, a representative of the Cuban Meteorological Service , Lt. Louis Larragoiti Alonzo , is now in the United States to receive training in the observational techniques of radiosonde and that Service is prepared to inaugurate the program as soon as the necessary cooperative agreement can be effected .
I have the honor to avail myself of this opportunity to extend to Your Excellency the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
SPRUILLE BRADEN

His Excellency Dr. JORGE MAÑACH,
Minister of State, Habana.

4085

MEMORANDUM AGREEMENT
In accordance with recent correspondence between Dr. F. W. Exchange of meteorological data.
Reichelderfer, Chief of the United States Weather Bureau , and Dr. José Carlos Millás , Director of the Cuban Meteorological Service, and previous conversations between representatives of the two organizations , the Government of the United States, through the Weather Bureau, now proposes to cooperate with the Government of Cuba, through the Cuban Meteorological Service, in organizing the regular exchange of meteorological data, subject to the following understanding:
1. To cooperate in the establishment and operation of a radiosonde observation station in Cuba, to be located at Habana ; and
2. To provide for the daily exchange of upper-air weather observations between the United States Weather Bureau and the Cuban Meteorological Service for the use of each country, especially in serving the needs of aviation, and to render it possible for the Government of the United States and the Government of Cuba to assist in the development of an exchange of weather information, forecasts, and warnings. Action by U. S.
To attain the foregoing objectives , the United States Weather Weather Bureau. Bureau agrees to:
(a) Provide and install the ground equipment necessary for making radiosonde observations at the station and pay the cost of necessary repairs.
(b) Authorize one of its technicians to visit the observation station to repair the ground equipment, whenever such equipment becomes inoperative and repairs cannot be made locally ;
(c) Provide the necessary radiosondes , balloons , parachutes, helium gas, meteorological forms and other accessories required for the observations ; and
(d) Provide balloon inflation shelter, if necessary.

4086

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Action by Cuban Meteorological Service.

The Government of Cuba, through the Cuban Meteorological

Service, agrees to :

(a) Assign a minimum of one observer and one assistant at the station for the purpose of making daily observations in accordance with standard practice and procedure ;

(b) Supply the necessary office quarters and office equipment, including heat, light, and electric power ;

(c) Provide adequate ground space for the balloon inflation shelter, as may be necessary ;

(d) Arrange for the prompt transmission of the radiosonde observation reports made pursuant to this agreement to a point in the United States to be designated by the United States Weather Bureau ; and

(e) Make available the recorder records to the United States Weather Bureau for reference purposes , and to supply that

Bureau with copies of the Weather Bureau forms which will be used for all radiosonde observations made at the station.

Expenditures.

I. The total amount to be expended by the United States shall not

exceed eighteen thousand , two hundred forty dollars ($ 18,240 ) during

the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1945. All expenditures incurred by

the Weather Bureau shall be paid direct by that organization and all

expenditures incident to the obligations assumed by the Govern-

Title to property.

ment of Cuba shall be paid direct by that Government. II. Title to all property supplied by the Cuban Government shall

remain vested in that Government, and likewise the title to all property supplied by the Government of the United States shall remain

vested therein .

Effective date, du- This agreement shall come into effect on the day on which it is ration.
accepted by the Government of Cuba, and shall continue in effect

until June 30 , 1947 , or for an additional period if mutually agreed upon in writing, unless the Congress of either country shall fail to

make available the funds necessary for its execution in which case it

may be terminated on sixty days' advance written notice by the Government of either country.

WAC

61 STAT.]

CUBA- WEATHER STATIONS- July 17, 1944 Aug. 2, 1944

4087

The Cuban Minister of State to the American Chargé d'Affaires

REPUBLICA DE CUBA MINISTERIO DE ESTADO
No. 1927

LA HABANA, 2 de agosto de 1944.

SEÑOR ENCARGADO DE NEGOCIOS: Con referencia a la atenta nota de esa Embajada, número 632 , de
17 de julio último, y al Memorandum-convenio que se remitió con la misma, relativos al establecimiento y funcionamiento, en cooperación entre el Servicio Meteorológico de Cuba y el Weather Bureau de los Estados Unidos de América, de una Estación Radiosonda en Cuba, que habrá de ser situada en las inmediaciones de La Habana, tengo el honor de participar a Vuestra Señoría que estudiado el asunto por el Centro competente se considera aceptable en todas sus partes el Memorandum-convenio aludido sobre la materia.
Y esperando que lo relacionado con el Memorandum-convenio de referencia quede terminado a la mayor brevedad, a fin de que los instrumentos necesarios sean enviados urgentemente, para inaugurar
lo antes posible el servicio que ha de prestar la mencionada estación radiosonda, aprovecho esta oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Señoría el testimonio de mi distinguida consideración.
J. MANACH

REPUBLIC OF CUBA MINISTRY OF STATE
No. 1927

Translation Habana, August 2, 1944.

MR. CHARGÉ D' AFFAIRES : With reference to your Embassy's courteous note, number 632, of
July 17 last, and to the Memorandum-Agreement transmitted therewith, relative to the establishment and operation by the Meteorological Service of Cuba and the Weather Bureau of the United States of America, in cooperation of a radiosonde station in Cuba, to be located in the immediate vicinity of Habana, I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that, the matter having been studied by the competent office, the above-mentioned Memorandum-Agreement thereon is considered acceptable in all respects.

Hoping that all matters connected with the aforesaid Memorandum-

Agreement may be concluded as soon as possible, to the end that the necessary instruments may be sent soon, in order to begin as soon as possible the service to be provided by the above-mentioned radiosonde

station, I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my distinguished consideration .
J. MANACH

Ante, p. 4084.

4088

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

June 18, 1946 [T. I. A. 8. 1852]

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting air service facilities in French territory. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Paris June 18, 1946; entered into force June 18, 1946.

The American Ambassador to the French Minister of Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 1516 EXCELLENCY:

Paris, June 18, 1946

Post, p. 4095.

I have the honor to invite Your Excellency's attention to the air navigation, communication , and weather facilities installed at the following places in French territory by the United States military services :
A. METROPOLITAN FRANCE: Cape Camerat, Corbigny, Dieppe, Domfront , Istres-le-Tube (Marseille) , Le Havre, Lyon, Marignane (Marseille) , Nantes, Orly, Querqueville (Cherbourg) , St. Renan (Brest) , Toulouse, Trappes, Paretta (Corsica) :
B. ALGERIA: Bone, Maison Blanche (Algiers) , Oran;

C. TUNISIA: Gabes , Tunis ;

D. FRENCH MOROCCO : Agadir, Cazes Air Base (Casablanca) , Meknes, Port Lyautey ;

E. FRENCH GUIANA: Rochambeau (Cayenne) ; F. INDO-CHINA: Saigon ;

G. FRENCH OCEANIA : Bora Bora (Society Islands) , Tontouta (New Caledonia) ; and
H. SENEGAL: Dakar.

A list of the installations at these points is now being prepared and
will be forwarded to Your Excellency for inclusion as an Annex to sioTnraalnsGfoevrertnomePrnotvio-f this letter. ['] As those installations may later become surplus to French Republic.
United States military requirements, it is the intention of my Government that they, together with one year's supply of maintenance parts and expendable supplies wherever theater surplus stocks permit, should be transferred to the Provisional Government of the French
Republic. In addition, the Government of the United States of America, through either the U.S. Army, U.S. Navy, CAA, or private
agency, will do everything possible to assist the Government of France or its representatives in purchasing , through regular commercial channels, maintenance parts and expendable supplies for the operation of the facilities.

1 [ By airgram, 1461 , dated Dec. 13, 1948, to the Secretary of State from the American Ambassador at Paris the Department was informed that : ". · no
list of the installations was subsequently prepared."]

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- AIR SERVICE FACILITIES-JUNE 18, 1946

4089

In consideration of this transfer, the Provisional Government of

the French Republic , recognizing on the one hand the immediate necessity of insuring the safety of international air traffic in an adequate manner until regulations are established by the Provisional

International Civil Aviation Organization (PICAO) and applied

by the said Government in execution of its international undertakings , and, on the other hand, the special interests of United States aviation

during the period in which American Armed Forces will participate

in the occupation of ex-enemy countries, will undertake :

Undertakings by Provisional Govern-

1. To operate and maintain without interruption all the installa- ment of French Re-

tions in a manner satisfactory for air traffic into and away from airdromes at which the facilities are located and along the international air routes converging on those airdromes.

2. To provide the full service of all facilities to all aircraft on a

non-discriminatory basis with charges , if any, only for non-operational messages, until an international agreement on charges has

been promulgated by PICAO.

3. To transmit weather reports, as prescribed by the U.S. Army Air Forces to designated stations thereof and to such other stations

as are required to insure an integrated meteorological network for the

international air routes, unless changed by international agreement to which the Governments of the United States and France are

parties . 4. Subject to the possibility of obtaining necessary spare parts,
to continue the operation of all types of facilities in their present locations or at new locations deemed preferable by the representatives of both Governments until (a) new facilities are installed in accordance with standards promulgated by PICAO or (b) it is determined by the Governments of France and the United States that there is no longer a need for the original facilities . It is understood that the aeronautical facilities will be devoted exclusively to aeronautical service and will not be diverted to the communication service .

5. To provide English speaking operators at air-to-ground and

control tower communication positions until regulations covering such

voice transmissions are promulgated by PICAO ; and further, until such regulations are promulgated , to grant permission to a representative of the U. S. air carriers authorized to serve an airdrome to enter

its control tower and, when in the opinion of the representative a case

of necessity exists , subject to the authority of the Commander of the

airdrome, to talk to the pilot of any United States aircraft flying in the vicinity of the airdrome.

6. Until such time as the allocations determined by PICAO come into

effect, to select radio frequencies for air-to-ground and control tower

operations only after coordination with the using United States carriers and with adjacent stations on the international air routes

converging on the airdrome in order to minimize (a) radio interference

and (b) the number of frequencies required to be operated by aircraft. 7. To authorize and facilitate day-to-day adjustments in air com-

munication service matters by direct communication between the

operating agency of France and the service agency of the United

4090

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

States Government, United States air carriers, or a communication

organization representing one or more of them.

8. To furnish in sufficient number suitable personnel to be trained

to operate and maintain all facilities transferred under this Agreement .

Proposed supplemental agreement.

A supplemental agreement shall be entered into by the agency of the

French Government which will eventually take over the operation of

the facilities and the agency of the United States Government, or its

representative, which undertakes the training and interim operation and maintenance of the facilities, pending transfer of full operating respon-

sibility to the agency of the French Government . This supplemental

agreement will define the responsibility, authority, and relations between the above-mentioned agencies and their representatives during

the period the United States agency remains in charge of the operation,

Conditions prior to training of personnel.

maintenance and training. Until such time as this training program shall have produced an
adequate number of trained French personnel, (a) the French Govern-

ment will not be held responsible under Articles 1 , 2 , 3 and 4 of the

present Agreement for the operation of that part of the facilities

enumerated in the Annex from which the U. S. Army Air Force might

withdraw, and (b) United States air carriers , or the Civil Aeronautics

Administration of the United States, will be authorized to designate

technicians to assist the agency designated by the French Government

to operate the facilities in accordance with standards established by PICAO.

If the foregoing is satisfactory to the French Government, Your Excellency's reply to that effect, together with this letter, will be considered as constituting an agreement between our two governments

with respect to the matters outlined herein. I take this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances
of my highest consideration.

His Excellency GEORGES BIDAULT,

JEFFERSON CAFFERY

Minister of Foreign Affairs, Paris.

The French Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

OL/RO. MINISTÈRE DES
AFFAIRES ETRANGÈRES -
DIRECTION DES ACCORDS TECHNIQUES

RÉPUBLIQUE FRANÇAISE Paris, le 18 Juin 1946

MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR,

Votre Excellence a bien voulu m'adresser en date de ce jour la lettre dont la teneur suit:

"Monsieur le Ministre, "J'ai l'honneur d'attirer l'attention de Votre Excellence sur les installations d'aide à la navigation aérienne, de transmissions et de

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES JUNE 18, 1946
météorologie , établies sur le territoire français par les services militaires des Etats-Unis, aux emplacements suivants :
A - FRANCE METROPOLITAINE ; - Cap CAMARAT, CORBIGNY, DIEPPE, DOMFRONT, ISTRES le TUBE
(MARSEILLE) , LE HAVRE, LYON, MARIGNANE (MARSEILLE) , NANTES , ORLY, QUERQUEVILLE (CHERBOURG) , ST-ROMAN (BREST TOULOUSE, TRAPPES, PORETTA (CORSE) . B - ALGERIE :
BONE, MAISON BLANCHE (ALGER) , ORAN.
C - TUNISIE : - GABES, TUNIS.
D - MAROC FRANCAIS : -- AGADIR, Base Aérienne de CAZES (CASABLANCA) , MEKNES,
PORT-LYAUTEY.
E - GUYANE FRANCAISE : ROCHAMBEAU (CAYENNE) F - INDOCHINE : SAIGON
G - POSSESSIONS FRANCAISES EN OCEANIE : BORA-BORA (Iles de la Société), TONTOUTA (Nouvelle Calédonie ) . HSENEGAL : DAKAR
Une liste des installations existant auxdits emplacements est en préparation et sera adressée à Votre Excellence en vue d'être jointe à cette lettre en annexe. Ces installations étant susceptibles dans l'avenir d'être déclarées "de surplus " par rapport aux besoins militaires des Etats-Unis, mon Gouvernement à l'intention de les transférer au Gouvernement Provisoire de la République Française avec des rechanges pour un an (articles d'entretien et fournitures consommables) dans la mesure où les stocks en surplus des théatres d'opérations le permettent.
En outre, le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, par l'entremise de l'Armée, de la Marine , de l'Administration de l'Aéronautique Civile ou d'une entreprise privée, fera tout ce qui est en son pouvoir pour aider le Gouvernement français ou ses représentants à acheter par les voies commerciales normales les articles d'entretien et fournitures consommables nécessaires à l'exploitation des installations .
En contre partie de ce transfert, le Gouvernement Provisoire de la République Française, reconnaissant d'une part la nécessité d'assurer dès maintenant la sécurité du trafic aérien international d'une manière satisfaisante en attendant qu'une réglementation soit établie par l'Organisation Provisoire de l'Aviation Civile Internationale (OPACI ) et appliquée par ledit Gouvernement conformément à ses engagements internationaux, et, d'autre part, les intérêts spéciaux de l'aviation des Etats-Unis pendant la période où les forces armées américaines participent à l'occupation des pays ex-ennemis , s'engagerait : I° à faire fonctionner et à entretenir sans interruption toutes les installations d'une manière satisfaisante pour le trafic aérien sur, vers et à partir des aérodromes sur lesquels lesdites installations sont

4091

4092

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
situées, et le long des routes aériennes internationales qui convergent vers ces aérodromes.
2º à faire pleinement bénéficier tout avion sans distinction du service de toutes les installations , des taxes n'étant éventuellement perçues que pour les messages autres que les messages d'exploitation jusqu'à ce qu'un accord international sur les taxes élaboré par l'OPACI Soit entré en vigueur.
3° à transmettre les renseignements météorologiques dans les conditions requises par les forces aériennes des Etats-Unis aux postes désignés par celles-ci, ainsi qu'à tout autre poste dans la mesure jugée nécessaire en vue d'assurer aux routes aériennes internationales un réseau météorologique cohérent, sauf modifications apportées par un accord international auquel seraient parties le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis et le Gouvernement Français. 4°/ sous réserve de la possibilité d'obtenir des rechanges nécessaires, à continuer l'exploitation des installations de tous types sur leurs emplacements actuels ou sur de nouveaux emplacements jugés préférables par les représentants des deux Gouvernements jusqu'à ce que :
a) de nouvelles installations soient établies conformément aux normes dont la mise en vigueur aurait été décidée par l'OPACI, ou b) le Gouvernement Français et le Gouvernement des Etats Unis estiment que les installations d'origine ne sont plus nécessaires.
Il est entendu que ces installations aéronautiques seront consacrées exclusivement aux services aéronautiques et ne seront pas utilisées à d'autres services de télécommunications.
5° à fournir des agents parlant anglais dans les postes de communication air-sol et à la tour de contrôle jusqu'à ce que la mise en vigueur des réglements concernant les communications radiophoniques de cette nature ait été décidée par l'OPACI ; et en outre, en attendant la mise en vigueur de tels réglements, à permettre à un représentant des transporteurs américains autorisés à desservir un aérodrome à pénétrer dans la tour de contrôle et, au cas où ce représentant l'estimerait nécessaire, et sous l'autorité du Commandant d'aérodrome ou de son délégué, à parler au pilote de tout appareil américain en vol dans le voisinage de l'aérodrome.
6º jusqu'à ce que prennent effet les allocations déterminées par l'OPACI, à ne choisir des fréquences radio pour les communications air-sol et pour l'exploitation de la tour de contrôle qu'après entente avec les transporteurs américains intéressés et avec les stations voisines situées sur les routes aériennes internationales convergent vers l'aérodrome, afin de réduire au minimum :
a) les interférences radio , b) le nombre des fréquences dont l'utilisation est nécessaire à un aéronef.
7°/à autoriser et à faciliter les réajustements au jour le jour intéressant les transmissions aéronautiques par la voie de contacts directs entre

61 STAT.] FRANCE-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES-JUNE 18, 1946
le service français exploitant et l'administration américaine compétente, les transporteurs américains ou tout organisme représentant l'un ou plusieurs de ceux-ci en matière de transmissions.
8°/ à recruter en nombre suffisant le personnel approprié en vue d'être entrainé à l'exploitation et à l'entretien de toutes les installations transférées dans le cadre du présent accord .
Un accord complémentaire sera conclu par le service officiel français qui reprendra en définitive l'exploitation avec le Service officiel américain (ou son représentant) qui assurera l'entrainement ainsi que, provisoirement, l'exploitation et l'entretien des installations
jusqu'au transfert de la pleine responsabilité de l'exploitation au Service officiel français . Cet accord complémentaire définira la responsabilité et l'autorité respectives des services sus-mentionnés et de leurs représentants pendant la période où le service américain demeurera chargé de l'exploitation, de l'entretien et de l'entrainement, ainsi que les relations entre ceux-ci .
Jusqu'à ce que ce programme d'entrainement ait permis la formation d'un nombre suffisant de personnel français qualifié : a) le Gouvernement français ne sera pas tenu pour responsable, aux termes des articles I , 2 , 3 & 4 du présent "accord ", de l'exploitation de celles des installations énumérées en annexe qui seraient abandonnées par l'Armée de l'Air américaine.
b) les transporteurs américains ou l'Administration de l'Aéronautique Civile des Etats-Unis seront autorisés à désigner des techniciens pour aider le service français exploitant les installations conformément aux normes établies par 1'.
Si les dispositions énoncées ci-dessus ne soulèvent pas d'objection de la part du Gouvernement français , une réponse de Votre Excellence à cet effet constituera, avec la présente communication , un accord entre nos deux Gouvernements quant aux questions ayant fait l'objet de la présente lettre.
97 Veuillez .
J'ai l'honneur de faire savoir à Votre Excellence que le Gouvernement français n'élève pas d'objection à cet égard .
La présente lettre, jointe à la communication précitée de Votre Excellence , constitue donc un accord entre nos deux Gouvernements./.
Veuillez agréer, Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, les assurances de ma très haute considération.
G BIDAULT
Son Excellence Monsieur JEFFERSON CAFFERY Ambassadeur des Etats-Unis à Paris

4093

95347-50--PT. IV-- 48

4094

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

CL/RO MINISTRY OF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS

Translation FRENCH REPUBLIC

OFFICE OF TECHNICAL AGREEMENTS

Paris, June 18, 1946

MR. AMBASSADOR :

Your Excellency has been good enough to address to me on this date a letter the tenor of which is as follows:

[For the English language version, see pp. 4088-4090 .]
I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the French Government does not raise any objection in this respect .
The present letter, together with the above-mentioned communication of Your Excellency, constitutes, therefore, an agreement between our two Governments.
Accept, Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my very high consideration.
G BIDAULT
His Excellency JEFFERSON CAFFERY, Ambassador of the United States, Paris

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES--MAY 8, 17, 1947

4095

Agreement between the United States of America and France amending the agreement of June 18, 1946, respecting air service facilities in French territory. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Paris May 8 and 17, 1947; entered into force May 17, 1947.

May 8, 17, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1853]

The American Ambassador to the French Minister of Foreign Affairs

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 2516

PARIS, May 8, 1947

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to my note No. 1516 of June 18, 1946 ,

and Your Excellency's reply thereto which constitute the Air Service

Agreement between our two governments.

I am now directed to substitute Dijon, Chateau Thierry, and Le

Bourget in lieu of Cape Camerat, Le Havre, and Querqueville (Cher-

bourg) due to relocation of the facilities under reference . If the Government of France is agreeable to this substitution, a

favorable reply from Your Excellency, together with this letter , will be considered as constituting an amendment to the above-mentioned Air Service Agreement .

I take this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration .

JEFFERSON CAFFERY

His Excellency

GEORGES BIDAULT,

Minister of Foreign Affairs, Paris.

Ante, p. 4088.

The French Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

CL/JP MINISTÈRE

LIBERTÉ · ÉGALITÉ . FRATERNITÉ

DES

AFFAIRES ÉTRANGÈRES

RÉPUBLIQUE FRANÇAISE

DIRECTION DES ACCORDS TECHNIQUES MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR ,

PARIS, Le

Par une lettre N° 2.516 en date du 8 de ce mois, Votre Excellence a

bien voulu attirer mon attention sur l'intérêt qui s'attachait à substituer les localités de Dijon, Chateau-Thierry et Le Bourget à celles de Cap Camerat, Le Havre et Querqueville- (Cherbourg) figurant dans notre échange de lettres en date du 18 juin 1946 , les installations d'aide à la navigation aérienne primitivement situées dans ces dernières ayant été par la suite transférées dans les premières.

4096

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
J'ai l'honneur de faire savoir à Votre Excellence que le gouvernement français ne peut que donner son accord à cette substitution.
Conformément à la proposition contenue dans la lettre précitée de Votre Excellence , ladite lettre constitue avec la présente réponse un amendement à l'échange de lettres du 18 Juin 1946./.
Veuillez agréer , Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, les assurances de ma très haute considération .
POUR LE MINISTRE DES AFFAIRES ETRANGERES ET PAR DELEGATION
LE DIRECTEUR GENERAL

Ante, p. 4088.

S. E. M. JEFFERSON CAFFERY Ambassadeur des Etats- Unis Paris

A Hervé ALPHAND
17. MAI 1947

Translation

CL/JP MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OFFICE OF TECHNICAL AGREEMENTS

LIBERTY-EQUALITY-FRATERNITY FRENCH REPUBLIC,
PARIS,

MR. AMBASSADOR :

Your Excellency was good enough to bring to my attention, by means of note No. 2,516 dated the 8th of this month, the importance attached to the substitution of Dijon , Chateau-Thierry and Le Bourget for Cap Camerat, Le Havre and Querqueville-(Cherbourg) which were mentioned in our exchange of letters of June 18 , 1946 , in view of the fact that the locations of the installations to aid air navi-

gation originally located at the latter points have been subsequently transferred to the first named places .
I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the French Government cannot but agree to the substitution .
In accordance with the proposal contained in Your Excellency's letter mentioned above , the said letter and the present answer thereto constitute an amendment to the exchange of notes of June 18 , 1946.
Please accept, Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my very high consideration.

For The Minister of Foreign Affairs and by delegation The Director General Hervé ALPHAND.

His Excellency JEFFERSON CAFFERY, Ambassador of the United States, Paris .

May 17, 1947

61 STAT. ] MEXICO-AGRICULTURAL WORKERS-MAR. 10, 1947

4097

Agreement between the United States of America and Mexico replacing the agreements of June 2, 1944, and January 9, 1945, respecting Mexican agricultural workers. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Mexico City March 10, 1947; entered into force March 10, 1947.

March 10, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1857]

The American Ambassador to the Mexican Secretary of Foreign Relations

No. 673

MEXICO, D. F. , March 10, 1947.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the agreement reached by representatives of the United States and Mexican Governments as a result of the conferences held in Mexico City between January 27 and February

4 , 1947, on the subject of the return to Mexico of illegal Mexican entrants into the United States, and their possible engagement by

American employers as agricultural workers in the United States . The document setting forth this agreement has been duly signed in duplicate originals and is now in possession of the competent authorities of both governments.

I am directed to inform Your Excellency that my government

approves the above mentioned document which, for the sake of clarity, is quoted below:

In conference in the City of Mexico , Federal District, in the Conference Room of the Ministry of Foreign Relations , Messrs . William G. MacLean, representative of the Department of State ; Ugo Carusi, Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service of the Department of Justice ; Albert del Guercio , District Director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in the District of Southern California; Maurice L. Stafford , Consul General of the United States of America, in representation of the American Embassy, and Harry F. Brown, observer for the Labor Office of the Department of Agriculture, who form the Delegation of the United States of America ; and the members of the "Interdepartamental Commission in Charge of Affairs Related to the Emigration of Mexican Workers ", created by decree dated January 17 , 1947, published in Official Register, no . 20, January 24, 1947 , Messrs . Licenciado Benito Coquet, Oficial Mayor of Gobernación; Doctor Alfonso Guerra, Oficial Mayor of Foreign Relations, and Licenciado J. Jesús Castorena, Oficial Mayor of Labor, and Social Welfare, technically advised for this occasion by Messrs . Arcadio Ojeda García, Head of the Department of Migration ; Manuel Aguilar, Director General of the Consular Service , and Engineer Jorge Medellín, Head of the Department of General Security and Social Welfare of the Ministry of Labor, who form the Mexican Delegation,

Infra; post, p. 4106. U. S. delegation. Mexican delegation.

4098

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Resolve :

Recommendations for solution of migra-

That having carried on cordial discussions in a friendly atmosphere

tory problems.

of mutual understanding, with the object of trying to solve , in the best

form for the Governments of Mexico and of the United States, the

migratory problems resulting from the illegal movement of Mexican

workers, whose number according to estimated statistics presented

by the Delegation of the United States has reached a total of 119,000,

of which 100,000 are direct emigrants from Mexican territory and

19,000 are workers who not having completed their labor contracts

have remained illegally in territory of the United States , being now

found, like the direct entrants , giving their services for the most part

in agricultural work, the Delegations reached agreement to submit

the following conclusions to their respective Governments as recom-

mendations :

Protective con-

tracts.

FIRST : At the request of the Mexican Delegation the United States

Delegation agrees to submit to its Government the proposition that

the entire contingent of Mexicans who have migrated illegally be

returned preferably through the border ports of Mexicali , Ciudad

Juárez and Reynosa with a view to making a selection which may

permit them to return to employment in the United States under the

protection of contracts which should be drawn up on bases acceptable to the two Governments.

SECOND : The abovementioned contracting should be carried out

through contracts signed by the representative of the employer in the United States (farmer) and by a representative of the Inter-

departmental Commission referred to at the beginning, which is intervening in these conversations ; said document to be endorsed in Mexi-

can territory by an official of the Immigration and Naturalization

Service of the United States of America, indicating that the employer

(farmer) has complied with the requirements of the immigration laws

of said country and has received due authorization to contract Mexican

workers and to bring them into the United States.

Reinforcement of

border patrols, etc.

THIRD : Both Delegations will recommend to their respective

Governments the reinforcement of their border patrols and of all

methods of vigilance to attain the greatest possible success for the

control dispositions established to impede the illegal migration of

Mexican workers .

Nonuse of illegally migrated workers.

FOURTH : With a view to cooperation in the realization of this

objective, the immigration authorities of the United States will deny

authorization for the contracting of Mexican workers to those Ameri-

can employers (farmers) who in contravention of these recommenda-

tions use the services of agricultural workers who have entered illegally.
The Mexican Delegation would appreciate the United States Delegation submitting to its Government the desire of the Mexican

Government that the authorities of the United States study the possibility of adopting, in addition, legal measures under which United

States employers who contract or use illegally migrated Mexican workers may suffer an adequate sanction.

61 STAT. ] MEXICO- AGRICULTURAL WORKERS-MAR. 10, 1947

4099

In formulating this suggestion, the Mexican Delegation has in mind that the adoption of such measures would constitute the most

effective procedure for putting an end to this illegal migration . FIFTH: The Mexican Delegation agrees immediately to propose to Restricted sale of railroad or bus tickets.
its Government that, through not only the Ministries of Communications and Public Works but also through that of Gobernación and other
state authorities, measures be suggested which may be considered pertinent to restrict as much as possible the sale of railroad or bus
tickets to groups of workers proceeding to the border of Mexico with
the United States, especially through the Punta Peñasco station , or the adoption as well of governmental measures which may prevent accumulations of workers at said border.
SIXTH: With a view to impeding the migration to the United States Documentation of persons.
of workers who have their permanent residence in border towns , it is
suggested to the Delegation of the United States that those who are
in this category be documented by the Mexican migration authorities

only with Card Form 5-C , which only gives them the right to cross to the adjacent towns and not to be contracted for work in the interior of the United States. Therefore , all such who are clearly shown to be legal residents of border points should be excluded from contracts.

SEVENTH : The Delegation of the United States will recommend to its Government the issuance of instructions to its diplomatic and consular representatives in Mexico with a view to having them abstain, as they have done to date, from documenting, as permanent residents of the United States, persons whose passports do not cate-

gorically so specify, with exception of those who have family ties in that country.
EIGHTH : It is understood that it is a function of the United States Travel expenses of returned workers.
Immigration Service to return workers found to be illegally in the
United States from the place of detention to a border point between Mexico and the United States . Both delegations are of the opinion

that the travel expenses of the workers from the United States border

port adjacent to the place of contract to the place of employment and return should be for the account of the employers in accordance with the requirements of Article 29 of the Mexican Labor Law.
NINTH : Both Delegations will recommend to their respective Governments the greatest publicity for these measures and their underlying reasons, in order that the authorities charged with their

Publicity.

application, can count upon the fullest support of public opinion in both countries , this publicity to be made simultaneously and on a date to be agreed upon by both Chanceries.

TENTH : The agreements set forth shall become effective thirty Effective date. days after they are approved by both Governments and notice thereof

is given through their respective Chanceries , replacing the agreements concerning these questions signed by the United States and

Mexican delegates in the City of Mexico , Federal District, on June 2, 1944, ['] and in the City of Washington on January 9, 1945. [']

1 ¹ [Not printed. ]

4100

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

In witness whereof, the present document has been prepared in sextuplicate in both Spanish and English and has been signed by the members of both Delegations on this thirty-first day of January, Nineteen hundred and forty-seven."

DELEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES

William G. MacLean Maurice L. Stafford
MEXICAN DELEGATION

Benito Coquet J. Jesús Castorena Manuel Aguilar

Alfonso Guerra Arcadio Ojeda G. Jorge Medellin"

Nonparticipation of U. S. Government in

I am requested to state also that, while my government is ready to

Mexican contracts.

comment informally as to the practicability of any contract proposed

by the Mexican Government covering the terms of employment be-

tween United States employers and Mexican agricultural workers,

my government cannot be a party to any contracts made or provide

policing for the fulfillment of such contracts, as made clear in the discussions between the representatives of the two governments.

The workers will have, however, the usual remedies or recourses avail-

able to residents in the United States in the same field of employment.

I also wish to point out to Your Excellency that my government

considers the present agreement as distinct and independent of that

entered into between our two governments in connection with the

recruitment of agricultural workers by representatives of the United

States Department of Agriculture in the sense that the first has to do with contractual relations between Mexican laborers and United

States employers, whereas the second has to do with contractual relations between Mexican laborers and the United States Government.

If Your Excellency's Government approves the above quoted agreement and is in accord with the other paragraphs of the note, I propose to Your Excellency that this note and the reply to it constitute the exchange of notes contemplated in Article 10 of the agreement above quoted.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

His Excellency Señor Don JAIME TORRES BODET Secretary of Foreign Relations, Mexico, D.F.

WALTER THURSTON

61 STAT. ] MEXICO- AGRICULTURAL WORKERS-MAR. 10, 1947

The Mexican Secretary of Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

[ SEAL]

3204

MÉXICO , D. F. , a 10 de marzo de 1947

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Tengo el honor de referirme a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia
número 673 fechada el 10 de marzo de 1947 , que a la letra dice : "Tengo el honor de hacer referencia al convenio a que se llegó por
los representantes de los Gobiernos de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica y de México como resultado de las conferencias verificadas en la Ciudad de México del 27 de enero al 4 de febrero de 1947, en relación con el regreso a México de los mexicanos que han entrado ilegalmente a los Estados Unidos y su posible contratación por empleadores norteamericanos, como trabajadores agrícolas en los Estados Unidos . - El documento conteniendo este convenio ha
sido debidamente firmado en originales duplicados y se encuentra en posesión de las autoridades competentes de ambos Gobiernos . He recibido instrucciones de informar a Vuestra Excelencia que mi Gobierno aprueba el documento arriba mencionado , el que, para mayor claridad se transcribe a continuación: - "En la Ciudad de México , Distrito Federal, reunidos en el Salón de Conferencias de la Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores los miembros de la "Comisión Intersecretarial encargada de los asuntos referentes a la Emigración de Trabajadores Mexicanos " , creada por Decreto de fecha 17 de los corrientes y publicado en el Diario Oficial núm . 20 del día 24 de enero en curso , señores Lic . Benito Coquet, Oficial Mayor de Gobernación ; Alfonso Guerra, Oficial Mayor de Relaciones Exteriores ; y Lic. J. Jesús Castorena, Oficial Mayor de Trabajo y Previsión Social, asesorados en esta ocasión por los Sres . Arcadio Ojeda García, Jefe del Departamento de Migración ; Manuel Aguilar, Director General del Servicio Consular ; y Arq. Jorge L. Medellín, Jefe del Depto . de Protección General de Trabajo y Previsión Social , que forman la Delegación Mexicana ; con los Sres. William G. McLean, Rpte. del Departamento de Estado ; Ugo Carusi, Director General del Servicio de Inmigración y Naturalización en representación del Depto . de Justicia ; Albert del Guercio, Director de Migración del Distrito Sur de California ; Maurice L. Stafford, Cónsul General de los Estados Unidos de América, en representación de la Embajada Norteamericana en esta Capital ; y Harry F. Brown, Oservador de la Ofna. del Trabajo del Depto. de Agricultura, que forman la Delegación de los Estados Unidos de América .
DECLARAN :

Que habiendo efectuado cordiales pláticas bajo un ambiente amistoso de mutua comprensión, con objecto de tratar de resolver en la mejor forma para los Gobernos de México y de los Estados Unidos los problemas migratorios resultantes del éxodo ilegal de trabajadores mexicanos, cuyo monto según datos aproximados, proporcionados por la Delegación Norteamericana, se eleva a la suma de ciento diez y nueve mil, de los cuales cien mil corresponden

4101

4102

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
a emigrantes directos de territorio mexicano y diez y nueve mil a braceros que habiendo terrumpido el cumplimiento de sus contratos han permanecido ilegalmente en territorio de los Estados Unidos, encontrándose como los anteriores, prestando sus servicios en su gran mayoría en trabajos agrícolas, ambas Delegaciones resolvieron estar de acuerdo en someter a sus respectivos Gobiernos las siguientes conclusiones a título de recomendación :
PRIMERO: A petición de la Delegación Mexicana , la Delegación Norteamericana está conforme en someter a la consideración de su Gobierno la proposición de que el contingente total de mexicanos que inmigraron ilegalmente, sea conducido en forma preferencial, por los puertos fronterizos de Mexicali, Ciudad Juárez y Reynosa, con objeto de hacer una selección que les permita regresar a trabajar en los Estados Unidos , al amparo de contratos que deberán formularse sobre bases aceptables para los dos Gobiernos.
SEGUNDO: La mencionada contratación deberá hacerse mediante contratos suscritos por el Representante del patrono (farmer) y por un Delegado de la Comisión Intersecretarial al principio citada, que interviene en estas pláticas, debiendo ser endosado dicho documento , en territorio mexicano , por un funcionario del Servicio de Inmigración Norteamericana indicando que el patrono (farmer) ha cumplido con los requisitos de las Leyes de Inmigración de los Estados Unidos y ha recibido la autorización para contratar y llevar a territorio de dicho país a trabajadores mexicanos.
TERCERO: Ambas Delegaciones recomendarán a sus respectivos Gobiernos el refuerzo de sus patrullas fronterizas y de todos sus sistemas de vigilancia para lograr el mayor éxito a la disposiciones de control que se establezcan, tendientes a impedir el éxodo ilegal de trabajadores mexicanos.
CUARTO: Con objeto de cooperar a la realización de tal propósito , las Autoridades Migratorias de los Estados Unidos negarán autorización para contratar trabajadores mexicanos a aquellos agricultures norteamericanos (farmers) que en contravención de estas disposiciones utilicen los servicios de trabajadores agrícolas inmigrados ilegalmente .
La Delegación Mexicana agradecería a la Norteamericana que señale a su Gobierno el deseo del de México de que las autoridades norteamericanas estudien la posibilidad de adoptar, además , medidas legales en virtud de las cuales los patronos norteamericanos que contraten o utilicen a trabajadores mexicanos inmigrados ilegalmente reciban la adecuada sanción .
Al formular esta sugestión , la Delegación Mexicana lo hace considerando que la adopción de tales medidas constituiría el procedimiento más eficaz para poner término a este tránsito ilegal.
QUINTO: La Delegación Mexicana acepta desde luego proponer a su Gobierno que por conducto, tanto de las Secretarías de Comunicaciones y Obras Públicas, como de la de Gobernación y demás Autoridades Estatales , se sugieran las medidas que se consideren pertimentes para restringir en lo posible la venta de boletos de transporte ferroviario o autotransportes, a contingentes de braceros que

61 STAT. ] MEXICO-AGRICULTURAL WORKERS-MAR. 10, 1947
se dirijan con rumbo a la frontera de México con los Estados Unidos , especialmente por la Estación de Punta Peñasco , o bien la adopción de disposiciones gubernamentales que eviten acumulaciones de trabajadores en dicha frontera.
SEXTO: Con objeto de impedir la inmigración a los Estados Unidos, de trabajadores que tienen su domicilio permanente en poblaciones de la frontera, se sugiere a la Delegación Norteamericana que los que se encuentran en esas circunstancias, sean documentados por las Autoridades Migratorias Mexicanas únicamente con la Tarjeta Forma 5-C, que les da el derecho sólo a pasar a las poblaciones aledañas y de ninguna manera a ser contratados para trabajar en el interior de los Estados Unidos .
Por consecuencia, deben quedar excluídos de contratación todos aquellos a quienes evidentemente se compruebe residencia legal en los puntos fronterizos.
SEPTIMO: La Delegación Norteamericana recomendará a su Gobierno que instruya a sus Representantes Diplomáticos y Consulares en México , con objeto de que se abstengan, como lo han hecho hasta ahora, de documentar, con carácter de residentes permanentes en los Estados Unidos , a personas cuyo correspondiente pasaporte no lo especifique categóricamente, con la excepción de aquellas que tengan ligas familiares en aquel país.
OCTAVO: Se entiende que es función del Servicio de Inmigración de los Estados Unidos de América, conducir a los trabajadores que se encuentren ilegalmente en dicho país, desde el punto de su detención a un puerto fronterizo entre México y los Estados Unidos de América. Ambas Delegaciones son de opinión que los gastos de viaje de los trabajadores, desde el puerto fronterizo norteamericano , adyacente al lugar de contratación, a los lugares de trabajo y viceversa, deberán ser por cuenta de los patronos (farmers ) , de acuerdo con lo especificado por el artículo 29 de la Ley de Trabajo de México .
NOVENO: Ambas Delegaciones recomendarán a sus respectivos Gobiernos dar la mayor publicidad a estas medidas y a las razones que las fundamentan, con el objeto de que las autoridades encargadas de su aplicación, puedan contar con el mayor apoyo de la opinion pública de ambos paises , debiendo hacerse dicha publicación simultaneamente y en la fecha que previamente se convenga por ambas Cancillerías .
DECIMO: Los acuerdos estipulados, entrarán en vigor treinta días después de ser aprobadas sus conclusiones por ambos Gobiernos y comunicadas las resoluciones por conducto de sus respectivas Cancillerías, debiendo reemplazar los acuerdos que sobre este mismo asunto fueron firmados entre las Delegaciones Norteamericana y Mexicana, en la Ciudad de MEXICO , Distrito Federal, el 2 de junio de 1944 y en la ciudad de WASHINGTON, D. C. , el 9 de enero de 1945.
Y para constancia se levanta la presente acta por sextuplicado , en los idiomas español e inglés , que firman los Miembros de ambas Delegaciones , a los trienta y un días del mes de enero de mil novecientos cuarenta y siete.

4103

4104

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
DELEGACIÓN MEXICANA:
Benito Coquet. - Alfonso Guerra. - J. Jesús Castorena. Arcadio Ojeda G. - Manuel Aguilar. - Jorge L. Medellín. -
DELEGACIÓN NORTEAMERICANA :
William G. MacLean. - Ugo Carusi . - Alberto del Guercio. Maurice L. Stafford . - Harry F. Brown
Se me ha pedido indicar tambien que, mientras mi Gobierno está dispuesto a comentar informalmente acerca de la practicabilidad de cualquier contrato propuesto por el Gobierno Mexicano cubriendo las clausulas de trabajo entre los empleadores norteamericanos y los trabajadores agrícolas mexicanos , mi Gobierno no puede ser parte de ningunos contratos que se hagan o proveer vigilancia para el cumplimiento de tales contratos, como se explicó claramente en las discusiones entre los representantes de los dos Gobiernos . Los trabajadores tendrán sin embargo, los remedios o recursos usuales con que cuentan los residentes de los Estados Unidos en la misma clase de trabajo .
También deseo expresar a Vuestra Excelencia que mi Gobierno considera el presente convenio, como distinto e independiente de aquel concertado entre nuestros dos Gobiernos en conexión con el reclutamiento de trabajadores agrícolas por representantes del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica, en el sentido de que el primero tiene que ver con las relaciones contractuales entre trabajadores mexicanos y empleadores norteamericanos , mientras que el segundo tiene que ver con las relaciones contractuales entre trabajadores mexicanos y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica.
Si el Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia aprueba el convenio preinserto y está de acuerdo con los otros párrafos de esta nota, me permito proponer a Vuestra Excelencia que esta nota y la respuesta de ella, constituyan el intercambio de notas mencionado en el artículo 10 de convenio preinserto ."
Sobre el particular, me es grato comunicar a Vuestra Excelencia la aceptación del Gobierno de México a la recomendación preinserta, así como su conformidad por lo que respecta a los comentarios también preinsertos , sobre la participación de las autoridades norteamericanas en la redacción y ejecución de los contratos individuales de trabajo, y sobre el hecho de que los agricultores contratados lo serán por empleadores norteamericanos , sin que se trate de relaciones contractuales entre aquellos y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica.
Me es grato renovar a Vuestra Excelencia, el testimonio de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
JAIME TORRES BODET
Excelentísimo Señor WALTER THURSTON, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Presente.

61 STAT. ] MEXICO- AGRICULTURAL WORKERS-MAR. 10, 1947

4105

[SEAL]

Translation

3204

MEXICO, D.F. , March 10, 1947

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's kind note No. 673 of March 10, 1947 , which reads word for word as follows :

Ante, p. 4097.

[For the English language text of this note, as signed, see pp. 4097-4100 . ]
In this connection I am happy to inform Your Excellency that the Government of Mexico accepts the above-quoted proposal and is in accord with the remarks , also quoted above, on the participation of United States authorities in the drafting and execution of individual work contracts , and on the fact that it is United States employers who will hire the agricultural workers , with no question of contractual relations between the latter and the Government of the United States .
I take pleasure in renewing to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
JAIME TORRES BODET

His Excellency WALTER THURSTON, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary ofthe United States of America. City.

4106

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

March 10, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1858]

Supplementary agreement between the United States of America and Mexico respecting Mexican agricultural workers. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Mexico City March 10, 1947; entered into force March 10, 1947.

The American Ambassador to the Mexican Secretary of Foreign Relations

No. 675

MEXICO, D. F., March 10, 1947.

EXCELLENCY:

Agreement respecting return to Mexico
oUf.iSl.legal entrants into

I have the honor to refer to the supplementary agreement reached by representatives of the United States and Mexican Governments as a result of the conferences held in Mexico City between January 27

and February 4 , 1947 , on the subject of the return to Mexico of illegal Mexican entrants into the United States, and their possible engage-

ment by American employers as agricultural workers in the United States . The document setting forth this supplementary agreement

has been duly signed in duplicate originals and is now in possession

of the competent authorities of both governments . I am directed to inform Your Excellency that my government

approves the above mentioned document which , for the sake of clarity, is quoted below:

U. S. delegation.

"In conference in the City of Mexico , Federal District , in the Conference Room of the Ministry of Foreign Relations, Messrs. William G. MacLean, representative of the Department of State; Ugo Carusi, Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service of the Department of Justice ; Albert del Guercio, District Director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in the District of Southern California ; Maurice L. Stafford , Consul General of the United States of America, in representation of the American Embassy, and Harry F. Brown, observer for the Labor Office of the

Mexican delegation.

Department of Agriculture, who form the Delegation of the United States of America ; and the members of the "Interdepartmental Commission in Charge of Affairs Related to the Emigration of Mexican Workers " , created by decree dated January 17, 1947 , published in Official Register no . 20, January 24 , 1947 , Messrs . Licenciado Benito Coquet, Oficial Mayor of Gobernación ; Doctor Alfonso Guerra, Oficial Mayor of Foreign Relations, and Licenciado J. Jesus Castorena,

Mexican workers
employed in State of Texas.

Oficial Mayor of Labor and Social Welfare , technically advised for this occasion by Messrs . Arcadio Ojeda García, Head of the Department of Migration ; Manuel Aguilar, Director General of the Consular Service, and Engineer Jorge Medellín, Head of the Department of General Security and Social Welfare of the Ministry of Labor, who form the Mexican Delegation:
FIRST: As an annex to the memorandum of this date , the United States Delegation has advised that a considerable number of the

61 STAT. ] MEXICO-AGRICULTURAL WORKERS-MAR. 10, 1947

4107

Mexican workers found illegally in the United States presently are employed in the State of Texas.
SECOND: The Mexican Delegation, in view of the statement to which the preceding point refers , considers that it is confronted with a factual situation which was not created by the Government of Mexico , but which it is desirable to solve in benefit to the Mexican workers . Consequently it is disposed to recommend to its Government that , as an exceptional measure, it authorize the contracting of these workers in order that they may continue to lend their services in the State of Texas, on the understanding that this attitude will not constitute a precedent nor can it be invoked in the future, since the Government of Mexico remains firm in its determination not to permit , under the protection of existing conventions, that persons of Mexican nationality be contracted to work in States of the United States in which there may exist discrimination against Mexicans, a problem which, on the other hand, in so far as Texas is concerned, seems to be on the road to a favorable solution, in view of the repeated proofs of friendship and of good will which the Honorable Beaufort Jester, Governor of said State, has shown towards Mexico.
THIRD : The resolutions which fall under this additional memo-
randum are subject to the same treatment mentioned in the tenth recommendation of the document of which this is an annex."

Ante, p. 4099.

DELEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES William G. MacLean Maurice L. Stafford

MEXICAN DELEGATION

Benito Coquet J. Jesús Castorena Manuel Aguilar

Alfonso Guerra Arcadio Ojeda G. Jorge Medellín

I am requested to state also that, while my government is ready to

Nonparticipation of U. S. Government in

comment informally as to the practicability of any contract proposed Mexican contracts.

by the Mexican Government covering the terms of employment

between United States employers and Mexican agricultural workers,

my government cannot be a party to any contracts made or provide

policing for the fulfillment of such contracts, as made clear in the discussions between the representatives of the two governments. The workers will have, however, the usual remedies or recourses available to residents in the United States in the same field of

employment. I also wish to point out to Your Excellency that my government
considers the present supplementary agreement as distinct and independent of that entered into between our two governments in connection with the recruitment of agricultural workers by representatives of the United States Department of Agriculture in the sense that the first has to do with contractual relations between Mexican laborers and United States employers , whereas the second has to do with contractual relations between Mexican laborers and the United States Government.

4108 Ante, p. 4097.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
If, for its part, Your Excellency's Government likewise approves the above quoted supplementary agreement, I propose to Your Excellency that this note and the reply to it constitute the exchange of notes contemplated in the agreement of January 31 , 1947 .
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
WALTER THURSTON His Excellency
Señor Don JAIME TORRES BODET, Secretary of Foreign Relations, Mexico, D.F.

The Mexican Secretary of Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

3205 EXCELENCIA:

MÉXICO , D. F. , a 10 de marzo de 1947

Me es grato hacer referencia a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia número 675 del 10 de marzo de 1947 que a la letra dice:

"Tengo el honor de hacer referencia al Protocolo adicional firmado por los Representantes del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América y del de México , como resultado de las conferencias efectuadas en la ciudad de México del 27 de enero al 4 de febrero de 1947 sobre el regreso a México de los mexicanos que ha entrado ilegalmente a los Estados Unidos y con su posible contratación por patronos americanos como trabajadores agrícolas en los Estados Unidos . El documento en que aparece este Protocolo ha sido debidamente firmado en originales duplicados y ya está en posesión de las Autoridades competentes de ambos Gobiernos. Tengo instrucciones de informar a su Excelencia que mi Gobierno aprueba el documento arriba mencionado que, para mayor claridad se transcribe a continuación : " "En la ciudad de México, Distrito
Federal, reunidos en el Salón de Conferencias de la Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores los miembros de la "Comisión Intersecretarial Encargada de los Asuntos referentes a la Emigración de Trabajadores Mexicanos" , creada por Decreto de fecha 17 de los corrientes publicado en el Diario Oficial número 20 del día 24 de enero en curso , señores Licenciado Benito Coquet , Oficial Mayor de Gobernación, Alfonso Guerra, Oficial Mayor de Relaciones Exteriores y Licenciado J. Jesús Castorena, Oficial Mayor de Trabajo y Previsión Social, asesorados en esta ocasión por los señores Arcadio Ojeda García, Jefe del Departamento de Migración, Manuel Aguilar, Director del Servicio Consular, Arquitecto Jorge L. Medellín, Jefe del Departamento de Protección General de la Secretaría de Trabajo y Previsión Social , que forman la Delegación Mexicana; con los señores William G. McLean, Representantes del Departamento de Estado, Ugo Carusi, Director General del Servicio de Inmigración y Naturalización en Representación del Departamento de Justicia; Albert del Guercio , Director de Migración del Distrito

61 STAT. ] MEXICO-AGRICULTURAL WORKERS- MAR. 10, 1947
Sur de California ; Maurice L. Stafford , Cónsul General de los Estados Unidos de América, en representación de la Embajada Norteamericana en esta ciudad ; y Harry F. Brown, observador de la Oficina del Trabajo del Departamento de Agricultura, que forman la Delegación de los Estados Unidos de América, acordaron también a título de recomendación para sus respectivos Gobiernos, la formulación de los siguientes considerandos complementarios : PRIMERO : Como complemento al Protocolo de esta fecha, la Delegación Norteamericana ha informado que un número considerable de los trabajadores que se encuentran ilegalmente en los Estados Unidos prestan en la actualidad sus servicios en el Estado de Texas. SEGUNDO : La Delegación Mexicana , en vista de la Declaración a que se refiere el punto anterior, estima que se halla en presencia de una situación de hecho que no fué creada por el Gobierno de Mexico , pero que conviene resolver en beneficio de los trabajadores mexicanos . En consecuencia, está dispuesta a recomendar a su Gobierno que, como medida de excepción, autorice la contratación de estos trabajadores para que sigan prestando sus servicios en el Estado de Texas, en la inteligencia de que esta actitud no constituirá ningún precedente ni podrá ser invocada en el futuro , ya que el Gobierno de México , se mantiene invariable en su determinación de no permitir que, al amparo de los convenios vigentes, se contrate a personas de nacionalidad mexicana para trabajar en los Estados. de la Unión Norteamericana en los que exista discriminación en contra de los mexicanos, problema que, por otra parte, por lo que respecta a Texas, parece encontrarse en vías de solución favorable, en vista de las reiteradas pruebas de amistad y de buena voluntad que hacia México ha dado el señor Buford Jester, Gobernador de dicha Entidad. TERCERO : Las resoluciones que recaigan sobre el presente Protocolo adicional quedan sujetas al mismo tratamiento que se menciona en la recomendación Décima del documento al que se anexa el presente. DELEGACION MEXICANA : Benito Coquet, Alfonso Guerra, J. Jesús Castorena, Arcadio Ojeda G. , Manuel Aguilar, Jorge Medellín . (firmado) DELEGACION NORTEAMERICANA : William G. McLean, Ugo Carusi , Albert del Guercio , Maurice L. Stafford , Harry F. Brown. (firmado) . " " Se me ha
pedido indicar también que, mientras mi Gobierno está dispuesto a comentar informalmente acerca de la practibilidad de cualquier contrato propuesto por el Gobierno Mexicano , cubriendo las cláusulas de trabajo entre los empleadores norteamericanos y los trabajadores agrícolas mexicanas, mi Gobierno no puede ser parte de ningunos contratos que se hagan o proveer vigilancia para el cumplimiento de tales contratos, como se explicó claramente en las discusiones entre los representantes de los dos Gobiernos . Los trabajadores tendrán, sin embargo , los remedios o recursos usuales con que cuentan los residentes de los Estados Unidos en la misma clase de trabajo . También deseo expresar a Vuestra Excelencia que mi Gobierno considera el presente Protocolo adicional, como distinto e independiente del convenio concertado entre nuestros dos Gobiernos en conexión con el reclutamiento de trabajadores
95347-50-PT. IV- 49

4109

4110 Ante, p. 4106.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

agrícolas por representantes del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos de Norteamerica , en el sentido de que el primero tiene que ver con las relaciones contractuales entre trabajadores mexicanos y empleadores norteamericanos , mientras que el segundo tiene que ver con las relaciones contractuales entre trabajadores mexicanos y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica. Si , por su parte , el Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia aprueba el protocolo adicional preinserto , me permito proponer a Vuestra Excelencia que esta nota y la respuesta a ella , constituyan el intercambio de notas mencionado en el convenio del 31 de enero de 1947." Sobre el particular , me es grato comunicar a Vuestra Excelencia la aceptación del Gobierno de México a la recomendación preinserta, así como su conformidad por lo que respecta a los comentarios también preinsertos , sobre la participación de las autoridades norteamericanas en la redacción y ejecución de los contratos individuales de trabajo , y sobre todo el hecho de que los agricultores contratados lo serán por empleadores norteamericanos, sin que se trate de relaciones contractuales entre aquellos y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica . Me es grato renovar a Vuestra Excelencia , el testimonio de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
JAIME TORRES BODET A su Excelencia
Señor WALTER THURSTON Embajador de los Estados de América México , D. F.

Translation

3205 EXCELLENCY :

MEXICO, D. F. , March 10, 1947

I have the pleasure of referring to Your Excellency's kind note No. 675 of March 10 , 1947 , which reads word for word as follows :

[For the English language text of this note, as signed , see pp . 4106-4108 .]

In this connection I am happy to inform Your Excellency that the Government of Mexico accepts the above-quoted proposal and is in accord with the remarks , also quoted above , on the participation of United States authorities in the drafting and execution of individual work contracts, and in particular the fact that it is United States employers who will hire the agricultural workers, with no question of contractual relations between the latter and the Government of the United States .
I take pleasure in renewing to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
JAIME TORRES BODET
His Excellency WALTER THURSTON
Ambassador of the United States of America México, D. F.

61 STAT.]

HAITI-FINANCES -OCT. 1 , 1947

4111

Understanding between the United States of America and Haiti respecting Haitian finances . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Port-auPrince October 1 , 1947; entered into force October 1 1947.

October 1, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1862]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs

AMERICAN EMBASSY

EXCELLENCY :

Port-au-Prince, October 1 , 1947.

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that my Government considers the conditions set forth in Article 11 of the Agreement between the United States of America and Haiti signed September 13 ,

1941 , at Port-au-Prince as having been met and, accordingly, my Government is happy to acknowledge that the provisions of that Agreement automatically cease to have effect on October 1 , 1947 .

It is the understanding of my Government that no claims shall be advanced by either Government against the other Government on account of any act of the citizens of the United States who have served as members of the Board of Directors of the National Bank of Haiti

or as employees of the bank pursuant to the Agreement of September 13 , 1941. I should appreciate it if Your Excellency would inform me whether your Government concurs in this understanding.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurance of my high consideration .

55 Stat. 1357.

BharthaBude
Robert H. McBride Chargé d'Affaires ad interim His Excellency EDMÉ MANIGAT, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Port-au-Prince .

The Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

SECRÉTAIRERIE D'ETAT DES
RELATIONS EXTÉRIEURES

RÉPUBLIQUE D'HAÏTI

No. SG/A-3 : 10

Port-au-Prince, le 1er. Octobre 1947.

MONSIEUR LE CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES ,

J'ai le plaisir d'accuser réception de la note datée de ce jour par laquelle vous m'informez que le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis

4112 55 Stat. 1357.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
d'Amérique considère comme accomplis les termes de l'article 11 de la Convention signée le 13 Septembre 1941 entre Haiti et les EtatsUnis d'Amérique et que ladite Convention cesse d'avoir effet aujourd'hui le 1er. Octobre 1947 .
Cette Chancellerie a bien noté les deux points qui font l'objet de la communication susmentionnée et, est d'accord avec le Gouvernement Américain en ce qui concerne le deuxième paragraphe de votre note .
Veuillez agréer , Monsieur le Chargé d'Affaires, l'assurance de ma considération très distinguée.
EDMÉ TH MANIGAT
Monsieur ROBERT H. MCBRIDE, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, Port-au-Prince .

DEPARTMENT OF STATE FOR
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
No. SG/A-3 : 10

Translation
REPUBLIC OF HAITI Port-au-Prince, October 1 , 1947.

MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES ,

I have the pleasure of acknowledging receipt of the note dated today in which you inform me that the Government of the United States

of America considers the conditions of Article 11 of the Agreement between Haiti and the United States of America signed on September 13, 1941 as having been met, and that the said Agreement ceases to have effect today, October 1 , 1947.
This Chancelry has taken due note of the two points which are the subject of the aforementioned communication and concurs with the United States Government with respect to the second paragraph of your note.
Please accept, Mr. Chargé d'Affaires, the assurance of my very distinguished consideration .
EDMÉ TH MANIGAT

Mr. ROBERT H. MCBRIDE ,

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America, Port-au-Prince.

61 STAT.] FRANCE- RECRUITMENT OF LABOR-OCT. 25, 1947

4113

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting the recruitment of voluntary labor for France in the United States Zone of Germany. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Paris October 25, 1947; entered into force October 25, 1947.

October 25, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1878]

The Secretary General of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTÈRE DES
AFFAIRES ÉTRANGÈRES

LIBERTÉ-ÉGALITÉ-FRATERNITÉ RÉPUBLIQUE FRANÇAISE

DIRECTION DES CONVENTIONS ADMINISTRATIVES ET SOCIALES

PARIS, LE 25 octobre 1947.

MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR ,
Iº A la suite des échanges de vues qui ont eu lieu entre les représentants de votre Ambassade et ceux de mon Département relativement au recrutement pour le travail en France de main d'oeuvre libre allemands dans la zone américaine d'Allemagne, vous m'avez fait connaître que le Gouvernement français pourra procéder au recrutement de cette main d'oeuvre sous le contrôle du Commandant de cette zone aux conditions suivantes :
a) le recrutement de travailleurs allemands libres n'affectera en aucune façon l'application des engagements français actuellement existants concernant le recrutement de personnes déplacées en Allemagne ;
b) le recrutement des travailleurs allemands libres aux termes des dispositions du présent accord sera réalisé par l'intermédiaire des Offices allemands du Travail dans les locaux desquels la Mission française de recrutement interrogera et renseignera les volontaires pour le travail en France.
La Mission française de recrutement fera part aux Autorités compétentes du Gouvernement militaire américain de toute difficulté survenue entre elle-même et les offices allemands du travail, de manière à permettre à celles-ci de prendre les dispositions nécessaires .
Les dispositions de l'accord technique indiqué au paragraphe 3º ci-après seront réexaminées à la demande du Chef de la Mission française de recrutement si celui-ci considère que le recrutement des travailleurs allemands pour la France n'est pas satisfaisant et si, après enquête des autorités militaires américaines, il apparaît que cette insuffisance résulte de l'obstruction des offices allemands du travail de la zone américaine d'Allemagne.
c) Les familles des travailleurs allemands volontaires pour le travail en France se rendront en France via la zone française d'Allemagne. Le départ de la famille sera effectué simultanément avec celui du travailleur et en tout cas dans le délai maximum d'un mois après le départ du travailleur.

4114

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
d) Aucun recrutement ne sera effectué parmi les travailleurs employés dans les houillères.
e) A titre exceptionne , sera temporairement suspendu, à la reqêête des autorités qualifiées du Gouvernement militaire américain, le recrutement des travailleurs qui seront considérés par ces autorités comme appartenant à des professions ou employés dans des régions où existe une insuffisance critique de main d'oeuvre.
Mon Gouvernement accepte ces conditions. 2º/ Par dérogations aux dispositions du paragraphe I c) ci-dessus concernant le départ de la zone américaine d'Allemagne des familles des travailleurs allemands volontaires pour la France, le Gouvernement américain est disposé à examiner la possibilité d'admettre exceptionnellement le maintien dans la zone américaine d'Allemagne d'un certain nombre de familles de ces travailleurs qui pourront refuser ou n'être pas en mesure de quitter la zone. Le nombre des travailleurs
volontaires allemands qui seront autorisés à laisser leur famille ne pourra dépasser 10% du total des travailleurs recrutés pour la France dans la zone américaine d'Allemagne.
La disposition qui précède ne s'appliquera pas aussi longtemps que le problème du transfert des économies des travailleurs libres allemands n'aura pas été règlé entre les Gouvernements.américain, britannique et français.
3º/ Un accord technique d'application des principes qui font l'objet de la présente lettre sera négocié à Berlin avec des représentants américains , britanniques et français .
4° Tous les frais engagés pour le fonctionnement de la mission française de recrutement des travailleurs allemands volontaires en zone américaine d'Allemagne seront intégralement mis à la charge de la France . L'activité de cette mission sera placée sous le contrôle du Commandant de la zone américaine.
5º Des conversations auront lieu entre les représentants des Gouvernements intéressés en vue de mettre fin au présent accord ou d'en modifier les dispositions, lorsque le recrutement des travailleurs volonaires allemands en zone américaine d'Allemagne atteindra un chiffre susceptible d'être considéré par le Commandant de la zone comme représentant le maximum de main d'oeuvre allemande , ou le maximum de cette main d'oeuvre appartenant à une profession déterminée que cette zone peut fournir à la France au moment considéré./ .
Veuillez agréer, Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, les assurances de ma haute considération .
J. CHAUVEL
à Son Excellence Monsieur JEFFERSON CAFFERY Ambassadeur des Etats- Unis à Paris

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- RECRUITMENT OF LABOR- OCT. 25, 1947

4115

The American Ambassador to the Secretary General of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Paris, October 25, 1947.

MY DEAR MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's

note of October 25, 1947 , which states : "1. As a consequence of the exchanges of views which have taken
place between the representatives of your Embassy and those of my Department relative to the recruitment for labor in France of free

Recruitment of free German workers in
U. S. Zone of Germany.

German workers in the United States Zone of Germany, you have in-

formed me that the French Government will be able to proceed with

the recruitment of such workers , under the authority of the Com-

mander of the Zone, on the following conditions:

(a) Recruitment of free German workers will in no way affect the implementation of existing French commitments regarding the recruitment of displaced persons in Germany.
(b) Recruitment of free German workers under the provisions of this Agreement will be effected through the intermediary of the German labor offices on whose premises the French Recruitment Mission will question and furnish information to volunteers for labor in France. The French Recruitment Mission will inform the appropriate United States Military Government authorities of any difficulties arising between it and the German Labor Office in order that those authorities may take necessary action . The provisions of the technical agreement referred to in paragraph 3 below will be reexamined at the request of the chief of the French Recruitment Mission if he considers that the recruitment of German workers for France is unsatisfactory and if, after investigation by the United States Military Government authorities, it appears that the inadequate recruitment results from obstructive practices by the German Labor Offices in the United States Zone of Germany.
(c) The families of voluntary German workers recruited for labor in France will leave for France, via the French Zone of Germany. The departure of the family will take place simultaneously with the departure of the worker, or in any case not later than one month thereafter.
(d) No recruitment will take place among workers employed in the mines .
(e) In exceptional circumstances, recruitment will be temporarily suspended at the request of the appropriate United States Military Government authorities among workers whom they consider as belonging to an occupation or being employed in areas where there exists a critical shortage of manpower.
My Government accepts these conditions.

4116

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Families of voluntary German workers.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 (c) above con-

cerning the departure from the United States Zone of Germany of the

families of voluntary German workers for France, the United States

Government is disposed to examine the possibility of permitting exceptionally, a certain number of families of those workers which may

refuse or not be able to leave the United States Zone of Germany to remain in that Zone . The number of voluntary German workers who will be authorized to leave their families in the United States Zone of

Germany will not exceed 10% of the total number of voluntary German workers recruited for France from the United States Zone of

Germany. This will not be done, however, until the problem of remittances
from voluntary German workers is settled by the American, British and French Governments.

3. A technical agreement to implement the principles contained in

this letter will be negotiated at Berlin by representatives of the

American , British and French Governments .

Recruitment expenses.

4. All expenses incurred in the operation of the French Mission

recruiting voluntary German workers in the United States Zone of

Germany will be paid entirely by France. The activities of the French

Recruiting Mission will be subject to the control of the United States

Termination or modification of agree-
ment.

Zone Commander. 5. Conversations will take place between representatives of the
interested Governments with a view to terminating the present

Agreement or modifying its provisions at the moment when the re-

cruitment of voluntary German workers in the United States Zone of Germany reaches a figure which may be considered by the Zone Commander as representing the maximum number of German workers,

or the maximum in any given occupation, which the United States Zone in Germany can furnish to France at that time.
Please accept, Mr. Ambassador, the assurance of my high consideration. "

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Government of the United States concurs in the terms of Your Excellency's note

and agrees that that note together with this acknowledgment should constitute an agreement between our two Governments on the principles governing French recruitment of German labor in the United States Zone of Germany.

Please accept, Mr. Ambassador, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .

JEFFERSON CAFFERY

His Excellency M. JEAN CHAUVEL , Secretary General ofthe
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Paris

61 STAT. ]

Mar. 27, Nov. 23, 1946
BELGIUM-PASSPORT VISA FEESJan. 17, Feb. 3, 1947

4117

Arrangement between the United States of America and Belgium respecting passport visa fees . Effected by exchanges of notes dated at Brussels March 27 and November 23, 1946, and January 17 and February 3, 1947; entered into force February 17, 1947.

Ma2r3,ch192476, NaondveJmabneurary 17, February 3, 1947
[T. I. A. S. 1879]

The American Embassy to the Belgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Commerce
EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BRUSSELS, BELGIUM

631 No. 149

Consular Section Shell Building Brussels

The American Embassy at Brussels presents its compliments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, with reference to the Ministry's letter of January 31 , 1946 ( No. 2202/pr/ETATS-UNIS ) , concerning a proposed reciprocal visa fee waiver agreement for non-immigrant travelers, has the honor to quote below a communication dated March 11 , 1946 , which has been received from the Department of State on the subject :
"The Government of the United States is willing to grant gratis passport visas to qualified Belgian nationals who are bearers of valid Belgian passports and who are classifiable as bona fide nonimmigrants under the immigration laws of the United States, if the Belgian Government will waive passport visa fees for qualified nonimmigrants proceeding to Belgian territory and bearing valid passports issued by the Government of the United States. Such an arrangement must be concluded on a fully reciprocal basis in accordance with the provisions of the Act of Congress approved February 25, 1925, and the Executive Order of May 15, 1925 , which stipulate that arrangements for the waiving or the reduction of passport visa fees shall be accomplished by an exchange of notes and that the concessions granted shall be similar. No arrangement may be concluded affecting the issuance of immigration visas or the fees therefor.
"It is noted that the Belgian Government is prepared to waive passport visa fees in cases of applicants for visitor's visas but desires to limit the period of validity of such visas to a maximum of two months and good for several trips.
"The normal period of validity of a temporary visitor's visa issued by the Government of the United States is twelve months , provided the applicant's passport is valid for that period . Such period of validity could not be modified generally and limited to a period of two months without excessive administrative difficulties.

43 Stat. 976. 8 U. S. C. § 202 (i) .

4118

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
It would appear, therefore , that the arrangement suggested by the Belgian Government could not be feasibly effected upon a reciprocal basis. It is the period of validity of the visa granted by a foreign country which must be equal to the period of validity of the visa issued by the Government of the United States, and not the period or the duration of the stay of the individuals in each country.
"The Government of the United States hopes that further discussions will lead to the conclusion of a reciprocal arrangement whereby bearers of passports issued by the Government of the United States, in possession of nonimmigrant visas issued by the Belgian Government, may enter and reenter Belgium one or more times within a normal period equivalent to that of the validity of a passport visa issued by the Government of the United States, that is, one year."
BRUSSELS, March 27, 1946.

The Belgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Commerce to the American Embassy

MINISTÈRE DES
AFFAIRES ÉTRANGÈRES ET DU
COMMERCE EXTÉRIEUR
Direction Générale C. 6e Bureau P. N° 2202/Pr/Etats-Unis.

BRUXELLES, le 23 Nov 1946

Le Ministère des Affaires Etrangères et du Commerce Extérieur a l'honneur de faire savoir à l'Ambassade des Etats-Unis d'Amérique à Bruxelles, en se référant à sa note du 27 mars 1946, n ° 149, [ ¹] que les Administrations compétentes, après examen de la question, ont marqué leur accord pour porter de 2 mois à 1 an au maximum, à titre de réciprocité, la durée de validité des visas de voyage qui pourraient être délivrés, directement et gratuitement, aux sujets américains, par les agents diplomatiques et consulaires de carrière de Belgique, en vertu du nouvel arrangement à intervenir entre les deux pays.
Nonobstant la durée de validité de leur visa de voyage, les ressortissants américains qui ne désirent pas s'établir en Belgique seront dispensés de l'obligation de la carte professionnelle.
A ce point de vue, ils seront donc, en fait, placés sur le même pied que les étrangers dispensés de la formalité du visa.
Le Ministre saurait gré à l'Ambassade de lui faire connaître la date à laquelle le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis serait disposé à faire entrer en vigueur les dispositions du susdit arrangement.
AMBASSADE DES ETATS-UNIS D'AMÉRIQUE, à Bruxelles.

1 ¹ [This number has been corrected to 631 ; see p. 4117. ]

61 STAT. ]

BELGIUM-PASSPORT VISA FEES- Mar. 27, Nov. 23, 1946 Jan. 17, Feb. 3, 1947

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND
FOREIGN COMMERCE
General Office C. 6th Bureau P. No. 2202 /Pr/ United States.

BRUSSELS, November 23, 1946

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Commerce has the honor to inform the Embassy of the United States of America in Brussels, with reference to its note No. 149 [ 1 ] of March 27, 1946, that the competent Administrations, after examining the question, have agreed to extend from two months to a maximum of one year, on a basis of reciprocity, the period of validity of travel visas which could be issued directly and free of charge to United States nationals by Belgian career diplomatic and consular agents, by virtue of the new arrangement to be concluded between the two countries.
Notwithstanding the period of validity of their travel visa, United States nationals who do not wish to establish themselves in Belgium will not be required to have professional cards.
Therefore, from that point of view, they will, in fact, be placed in the same status as foreigners exempted from the formality of the visa.
The Minister would be grateful if the Embassy would notify it of the date on which the United States Government would be prepared to have the provisions of the aforesaid arrangement enter into force.

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND FOREIGN COMMERCE

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, Brussels.

The American Embassy to the Belgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Commerce

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 600

AMERICAN EMBASSY
Shell Building 60, rue Ravenstein
Brussels

The American Embassy at Brussels presents its compliments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Commerce, and has the honor to refer to the Ministry's note of November 23 , 1946 , in which it was stated that the Ministry is agreeable to entering into an agreement with the United States Government to permit the reciprocal issuance of visitors' visas to nationals of both countries, valid for one year, without fees.

¹ [This number has been corrected to 631 ; see p. 4117. ]

4119

4120 Effective date.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
The Embassy is in receipt of instructions from the Department of State authorizing it to conclude arrangements for the reciprocal agreement and, if it is agreeable to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Commerce, the Embassy would suggest that the effective date for the reciprocal waiver of fees for visitors' visas be set as February 17, 1947.
The Embassy will appreciate it if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Commerce will indicate whether this date is acceptable to the Belgian Government and takes this occasion to renew the assurances of its highest consideration.
BRUSSELS , January 17, 1947.

The Belgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Commerce to the American Embassy

MINISTERE DES AFFAIRES ETRANGERES, Direction Générale C
2ème section - 6ème bureau P n° 2202/Pr/Etats-Unis.

BRUXELLES, le 3 février 1947.

Le Ministère des Affaires Etrangères et du Commerce Extérieur a l'honneur de faire savoir à l'AMBASSADE DES ETATS UNIS D'AMERIQUE à Bruxelles, comme suite à sa note du 17 janvier 1947, n° 600, que le Gouvernement belge est d'accord pour fixer au 17 février 1947 la date d'entrée en vigueur de l'arrangement intervenu entre les deux pays en matière de visas de passeports.
Les instructions nécessaires vont être adressées aux agents diplomatiques et consulaires de Belgique à l'étranger.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, General Office C 2nd Section - 6th Bureau P No. 2202/Pr/United States.

BRUSSELS, February 3, 1947.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Commerce has the honor to inform the Embassy of the United States in Brussels, in further reference to its note No. 600 of January 17, 1947, that the Belgian Government agrees that February 17, 1947, shall be fixed as the date of the entry into force of the arrangement concluded between the two countries in the matter of passport visas.
The necessary instructions will be transmitted to Belgian diplomatic and consular agents abroad.

61 STAT.] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-SEPT. 6, 1946

4121

Agreement between the United States of America and Brazil respecting air transport services . Signed at Rio de Janeiro September 6, 1946; entered into force October 6, 1946.[¹]

September 6, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1900]

t
1 [ Pages 4122-4159 contain a photographic reproduction of the signed original, with the exception of the signatures and seals on pp. 4136 and 4137. ]

4122

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA AND THE UNITED STATES OF BRAZIL.
The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United States of Brazil , considering :
· that the ever-growing possibilities of commercial aviation are of increasing importance ;
- that this means of transportation because of its essential characteristics , permitting rapid connections , provides the best means for bringing nations together ;
- that it is desirable to organize in a safe and orderly form regular international air services , without prejudice to national and regional interests , having in mind the development of in ternational cooperation in the field of air transport ;
· that it is necessary to conclude an agreement to secure regular air communications between the two countries
have appointed for this purpose their Plenipoten tiaries as follows :
The President of the United States of America, His Excellency William Douglas Pawley , Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary in Brazil , and His Excellency James McCauley Landis , Chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Board ;
The President of the United States of Brazil , His Excellency Samuel de Sousa-Leão Gracie , Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs and His Excellency Major-Brigadier Armando Figueira Trompowsky de Almeida , Minister of State for Aeronautics ;

61 STAT.] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- SEPT. 6, 1946

4123

ACORDO SOBRE TRANSPORTES AEREOS ENTRE OS
ESTADOS UNIDOS DA AMERICA E OS ESTADOS UNIDOS DO BRASIL .
O Governo dos Estados Unidos da América e o Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil , considerando :
· que as possibilidades sempre crescentes da aviação co mercial são de importância cada vez mais relevante ;
· uqe esse meio de transporte , pelas suas carecterísticas essenciais , permitindo ligações rápidas , proporciona melhor aproximação entre as nações ;
que é conveniente organizar , por forma segura è orde nada , os serviços aéreos internacionais regulares , sem prejuízo dos in teresses nacionais e regionais , tendo em vista o desenvolvimento da co. operação internacional no campo dos transportes aéreos ;
- que se torna necessário a conclusão de um acôrdo des tinado a assegurar comunicações aéreas regulares entre os dois países;
nomearam, para esse fim os seguintes Plenipotenciários :
O Presidente dos Estados Unidos da América , Sua Excelên cia o Senhor William Douglas Pawley , Embaixador Extraordinário e Pleni potenciário no Brasil , e Sua Excelência o Senhor James McCauley Landis, Presidente do " Civil Aeronautics Board " ;
O Presidente dos Estados Unidos do Brasil , Sua Excelência o Senhor Samuel de Sousa-Leão Gracie , Ministro de Estado interino , das Relações Exteriores e Sua Excelência o Major -Brigadeiro Armando Fi gueira Trompowsky de Almeida , Ministro de Estado dos Negócios da Aeronáutica ;

4124

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

who, after having exchanged their fullpowers, found to be in good and due form, agreed upon the following articles :

Rights. Post, p. 4138.

ARTICLE I The Contracting Parties grant each other the rights specified in the Annex hereto , in order that there may be established the regular air services described therein (hereinafter referred to as "agreed services " ) .

ARTICLE II

Inauguration of services.

1- Each of the agreed services may be inaugurated in mediately or at a later date , at the option of the Contracting Party

to whom the rights have been granted , but not before :

(a ) the Contracting Party to whom the rights have been gran

ted shall have designated an airline or airlines for the route or rou

tes specified ;

(b) the Contracting Party granting the rights shall have gi

ven the necessary operating permission to the airline or airlines con

Post, p. 4128.

cerned (which it shall do without delay , in accordance with the provi sions of paragraph 2 of this article and of Article VI) .
2 · The airlines so designated may be required to sa

tisfy the aeronautical authorities of the Contracting Party granting the rights , that they are in a position to fulfill the requirements pres cribed by the laws and regulations normally applied by these authori ties to the operation of commercial airlines .

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- SEPT. 6, 1946

4125

os quais , depois de haverem trocado seus Plenos Po deres , achados em boa e devida forma , convieram nos artigos seguintes :
ARTIGO I
As Partes Contratantes concedem- se reciprocamente os direitos especificados no Anexo do presente Acôrdo , a fim de que se estabeleçam os serviços aéreos regulares no mesmo descritos ( doravante referidos como "serviços convencionados ") .
ARTIGO II
1 - Qualquer dos serviços convencionados poderá ser ini ciado imediatamente ou em data posterior , a critério da Parte Contratan te à qual os direitos foram concedidos , mas não antes que :
(a) a Parte Contratante à qual os mesmos tenham sido concedi dos haja designado uma empresa ou empresas aéreas para a rota ou rotas especificadas ;
(b) a Parte Contratante que concede os direitos tenha dado a necessária licença para funcionamento à empresa ou empresas aéreas em questão (o que fará sem demora , obedecidas as disposições do número 2º dêste artigo e as do artigo VI ) .
2 · As empresas aéreas designadas poderão ser chamadas a provar , perante as autoridades aeronáuticas da Parte Contratante que concede os direitos , que se encontram em condições de satisfazer os re quisitos prescritos pelas leis e regulamentos normalmente aplicados por essas autoridades ao funcionamento de empresas aéreas comerciais .

95347-50- PT. IV- -50

4126

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Charges, etc.

ARTICLE III
1 - The charges which either of the Contracting Parties impose or permits to be imposed on the eirline or airlines designated by the other Contracting Party for the use of airports and other facilities shall not be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services .
2 - Fuel , lubricating oils , and spare parts introduced into the territory of one Contracting Party or placed on board airpla nes in its territory by the other Contracting Party , either for its own account or for the airlines designated by it , solely for use bythe aircraft of the other Contracting Party , shall enjoy,with respect to customs duties , inspection fees and other charges imposed by the first Contracting Party , treatment not less favorable than that granted to the national airlines engaged in international air transport services or to the airlines of the most favored nation .
3- Aircraft of one of the Contracting Parties used in the operation of the agreed services and the supplies of fuel , lu bricating oils , spare parts , normal equipment and aircraft stores re tained on board such aircraft shall enjoy exemption from customs duties , inspection fees , and similar duties or charges in the territory of the other Contracting Party , even though these supplies be used by such aircraft on flights within that territory.

Certificates of airworthiness, etc.

ARTICLE IV Certificates of airworthines , certificates of com

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES--SEPT. 6, 1946

4127

ARTIGO III
1 - As taxas que uma das partes Contratantes imponha ou permita que sejam impostas à empresa ou empresas aéreas designadas pela outra Parte Contratante para o uso de aeroportos e outras facilidades não serão superiores àquelas que seriam pagas pelo uso de tais aeroportos e facilidades por aeronaves de sua bandeira empregadas em ser viços internacionais semelhantes .
2 · Os combustíveis , óleos , lubrificantes e sobressalentes introduzidos no território de uma Parte Contratante ou postos a bordo de aeronaves nesse território pela outra Parte Contratante , ou por sua conta , ou pelas empresas aéreas pela mesma designadas , unicamente para se rem usados pelas aeronaves da outra Parte Contratante , gozarão , com rela ção aos direitos aduaneiros , taxas de inspeção e outras taxas impostas pela primeira Parte Contratante de tratamento não menos favorável do que o concedido às empresas aéreas nacionais que realizam transporte aéreo internacional , ou à empresas aéreas da nação mais favorecida .
3 - As aeronaves de uma das Partes Contratantes utilizadas na exploração dos serviços convencionados e os suprimentos de com bustível , óleos lubrificantes , sobressalentes , equipamento normal e pro visões guardados a bordo de tais aeronaves , gozarão de isenção de di · reitos aduaneiros , taxas de inspeção e direitos ou taxas semelhantes no território da outra Parte Contratante , ainda que êsses suprimentos venham a ser utilizados pelas aeronaves em vôo naquele território .
ARTIGO IV
Os certificados de navegabilidade , cartas de habi-

4128

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

petency and licenses issued or validated by one of the Contracting Par ties and still in force , shall be recognized as valid by the other Con tracting Party for the purpose of the operation of the agreed services . Each Contracting Party reserves the right however to refuse to recognize , for the purpose of flight above its own territory , certificates of competency and licenses granted to their own nationals by another State.

ARTICLE V

Laws and regulations.

1- The laws and regulations of one Contracting Party,

relative to the entry into its own territory , or departure therefrom

of aircraft employed in international air navigation or to the opera-

tion of such aircraft within its own territory , shall be applied to air

craft of the airline or airlines of the other Contracting Party.

2 · The laws and regulations of one Contracting Party as to the admission into its own territory or the departure therefrom of passengers , crew or cargo of aircraft ( i.e. , regulations relative to entry , clearance , immigration , passports , customs and quarantine ) shall be applied to passengers , crew and cargo of aircraft of the airline or airlines designated by the other Contracting Party, within the territo ry of the first Contracting Party .

ARTICLE VI

Withholding or revocation of exercise of
rights.

Each of the Contracting Parties reserves the right to withold or revoke the exercise of rights specified in the Annex of

the present Agreement by an airline designated by the other Contracting

Party when it is not satisfied that substantial ownership and effective control of the airline under reference is in the hands of nationals of

the other Contracting Party, or in case of failure by that airline to

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-SEPT. 6, 1946

4129

litação e licenças emitidos ou válidos por una das Partes Contratantes e ainda em vigor , serão reconhecidos como válidos pela outra Par te Contratante para o fim da Exploração dos serviços convencionados . As Partes Contratantes se reservan , entretanto , o direito de não reconhecer , relativamente ao sobrevôo de seu território , certificados de habilitação e licenças concedidos aos seus nacionais por um outro Estado .
ARTIGO V
1 · As leis e regulamentos de uma Parte Contratante , relativas à entrada no seu próprio território , ou à saída do mesmo , de aeronaves empregadas em navegação aérea internacional ou à exploração de tais aeronaves dentro do seu território , serão aplicadas às aeronaves da empresa ou empresas aéreas designadas pela outra Parte Contratante . 2 - As leis e regulamentos de uma Parte Contratante , relativas à entrada no seu território , ou à sáida do mesmo , de passa geiros , tripulações ou carga de aeronaves ( como sejam regulamentos con cernentes à entrada , despacho , imigração , passaportes , alfândega e qua rentena) aplicar- se -ão aos passageiros , tripulações e carga das aero naves da empresa ou empresas aéreas designadas pela outra Parte Contratante , dentro do território da primeira Parte Contratante .
ARTIGO VI
Cada uma das Partes Contratantes reserva- se o di reito de negar ou revogar o exercício dos direitos especificados no Anexo do presente Acordo por una empresa aérea indicada pela outra Par te Contratante quando não julgar suficientemente provado que uma parte substancial da propriedade e o contrôle efetivo da referida emprê sa estão em mãos de nacionais da outra Parte Contratante ou em caso

4130

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Post, p. 4138.

comply with the laws or regulations referred to in Article V above , or to fulfill the conditions under which the rights are granted in accordance with this Agreement and its Annex , or when planes put in operation are not manned by nationals of the other Contracting Party, except in cases where air crews are being trained .

ARTICLE VII

Registration of Agreement.

The present Agreement shall be registered with the

Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization established by the

59 Stat. 1516.

Interim Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed in Chicago on December 7, 1944. or its successor .

ARTICLE VIII

Modifications of terms of Annex, etc.

If either of the Contracting Parties considers it

Post, p. 4138.

desirable to modify the terms of the Annex to this Agreement , as well

as to exercise the rights specified in Article VI , it may request con-

sultation between the aeronautical authorities of the two Contracting

Parties , such consultation to be initiated within a period of 60 days

from the date of the request . When these authorities agree that the

Annex should be modified , or choose to exercise the rights set forth in

Article VI , such decisions shall enter into force after having been con

firmed by an exchange of notes through diplomatic channels .

Disputes. Post, p. 4138.

ARTICLE IX
Except as otherwese provided in this Agreement , or its Annex , any dispute between the Contracting Parties relative to the interpretation or application of this Agreement , or its Annex, which cannot be settled through consultation shall be submitted for an advisory report to the Interim Council of the Provisional International Ci

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-SEPT. 6, 1946

4131

de inobservância , por essa emprêsa aérea , das leis e regulamentos refe ridos no Artigo V supra ou das condições sob as quais os direitos foram concedidos na conformidade dêste acordo e do seu Anexo , ou ainda quan do os aviões postos em tráfego não sejam tripulados por naturais da ou tra Parte Contratante , excetuados os casos de treinamento de pessoal na vegante .
ARTIGO VII
O presente Acôrdo será registrado na Organização Pro visória Internacional de Aviação Civil , estabelecida pelo Acôrdo Provi sório sobre Aviação Civil Internacional , assinado em Chicago , em 7 de dezembro de 1944 ou do órgão que a suceder .
ARTIGO VIII
Se qualquer das Partes Contratantes considerar desejável modificar os termos do Anexo ao presente Acôrdo , bem como usar da faculdade prevista no Artigo VI , poderá solicitar consultas entre as autoridades aeronáuticas das duas Partes Contratantes , tais consultas devendo ser iniciadas dentro do prazo de 60 dias a correr da data da so licitação . Quando essas autoridades concordarem em modificar o Anexo, ou em efetivar o exercício do direito previsto no Artigo VI , essas resoluções entrarão em vigor depois de confirmação por troca de notas através dos canais diplomáticos .
ARTIGO IX
Salvo quando regulado de outro modo no presente Acor do ou no seu Anexo , qualquer divergência entre as Partes Contratantes, relativamente à interpretação ou à aplicação do presente acordo ou de seu Anexo , que não puder ser resolvida por meio de consultas , deverá ser submetida ao parecer consultivo do Conselho Provisório da Organi-

4132

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

59 Stat. 1521.

vil Aviation Organization ( in accordance with the provisions of Article III , Section 6 ( 8 ) of the Provisional Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944) or to its successor ,un less the Contracting Parties agree to submit the dispute to an Arbitra tion Tribunal designated by agreement between the same Contracting Par ties , or to some other person or body. The Contracting Parties will use their best efforts under the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in any such report .

ARTICLE X

Multilateral con. vention.

If a general multilateral aviation convention , ac-

cepted by both Contracting Parties , enters into effect , this Agreement

shall be modified in such a way so that its provisions will conform to

those of the convention under reference .

ARTICLE H

For the purposes of the present Agreement , and its

Annex, except where the text provides otherwise :

"Aeronautical authorities. "

(a) the term "aeronautical authorities " shall mean in the ca

se of the United States of America the Civil Aeronautics Board and any

person or agency authorized to perform the functions exercised at the

present time by the Civil Aeronautics Board and , in the case of the Uni ted States of Brasil , the Air Minister and any person or agency autho-

rized to perform the function exercised at present by the said Minister.

"Designated air. lines."

(b) the term " designated airlines " shall mean those airlines that the aeronautical authorities of one of the Contracting Parties ha

ve communicated in writing to the aeronautical authorities of the other

Ante, p. 4124.

Contracting Party that they are the airlines that it has designated in conformity with Article II of the present Agreement for the routes spe oified in such designation.

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-SEPT. 6, 1946

4133

zação Internacional Provisória de Aviação Civil , na conformidade das disposições do Artigo III , seção 6 ( 8 ) do Acôrdo Provisório sobre Avia ção Civil Internacional , assinado em Chicago aos 7 de dezembro de 1944. ou do órgão que suceder , a menos que as Partes Contratantes concordem em resolver a divergência perante um Tribunal Arbitral , nomeado em vir tude de acordo entre as mesmas Partes Contratantes , ou perante outra pessoa ou órgão . As Partes Contratantes comprometem- se a envidar os seus melhores esforços , dentro dos limites de seus poderes , para pôr em execução a opinião que aquele órgão internacional expressar .
ARTIGO X
Se uma convenção geral aérea multilateral , aceita por ambas as Partes Contratantes , entrar em vigor , o presente Acôrdo deverá ser modificado de modo que as auas disposições se conciliem com as da referida convenção .
ARTIGO XI
Para os fins do presente Acôrdo e do seu Anexo , a não ser que o texto disponha de outro modo :
(a) a expressão " autoridade aeronáutica " significará , no ca so dos Estados Unidos da América , o " Civil Aeronautics Board " e qualquer pessoa ou órgão autorizado a exercer as funções atualmente exercidas pelo Civil Aeronautics Board ou funções similares , e , no caso dos Estados Unidos do Brasil , o Ministro da Aeronáutica e qualquer pes soa ou órgão autorizado a exercer as funções atualmente exercidas pelo referido Ministro ou funções similares ;
(b) a expressão " empresas aéreas designadas " significará as empresas de transportes aéreos a respeito das quais as autoridades aeronáuticas de uma das Partes Contratantes tenham feito comunicação por escrito às autoridades aeronáuticas da outra Parte Contratante de que as mesmas são empresas aéreas por elas designadas , na conformidade do Artigo II do presente Acordo , para as rotas especificadas em tal modi ficação;

4134

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

"Territory. "

(o ) the term "territory " shall have the meaning given to it

by Article 2 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation , signed

61 Stat . , Pt . 2 , at Chicago on December 7 , 1944 . p. 1181.
( d ) the definitions contained in paragraphs a, b and d of Ar-

ticle 96 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation signed at Chi

61 Stat . , Pt . 2, cago on December 7 , 1944 , shall be applied to the present Agreement . p. 1207.

ARTICLE XII

Notice of termination.

Either of the Contracting Parties may at any time

notify the other of its intention to terminate the present Agreement .

Such a notice shall be sent simultaneously to the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or its successor . In the event such

communication is made , this Agreement shall terminate six ( 6 ) months

after the date of receipt of the notice to terminate , unless by Agre-

ement between the Contracting Parties the communication under reference is withdrawn before the expiration of that time . If the other Con-

tracting Party fails to acknowledge receipt , notice shall be deemed as

having been received 14 days after its receipt by the Provisional In-

ternational Civil Aviation Organization or its successor .

ARTICLE XIII
The present Agreement supersedes any acts , permissions , privileges or concessions already in existence at the time ofthe signing , granted for any reason by any of the Contracting Parties in fa vour of airlines of the nationality of the other Contracting Party.

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- SEPT. 6, 1946

4135

(o) a expressão " território " terá o sentido que lhe dá o Artigo 2 da Convenção sobre Aviação Civil Internacional , assinada em Chi cago aos 7 de dezembro de 1944 .
(d ) as definições contidas nos parágrafos a, be d do Artigo 96 da Convenção sobre Aviação Civil Internacional , assinada em Chicago aos 6 de dezembro de 1944 , aplicar- se-ão ao presente Acôrdo .
ARTIGO XII
Qualquer das Partes Contratantes poder , em qualquer ocasião , notificar à outra o seu propósito de fazer cessar o presente Acordo , comunicação esta que deverá ser feita simultaneamente à Organização Provisória Internacional de Aviação Civil ou ao órgão que a suceder . Na eventualidade dessa comunicação , o presente Acordo ter minará seis ( 6 ) meses após a data do recebimento da notificação pela ou tra Parte Contratante , a menos que , mediante entendimento entre as Par tes Contratantes , a referida comunicação venha a ser retirada antes da expiração daquele prazo . Se a outra Parte Contratante deixar de acusar o recebimento , a notificação será considerada como tendo sido rece bida quatorze dias depois do recebimento , pela Organização Provisória Internacional de Aviação Civil ou pelo órgão que a suceder , da notificação que lhe foi dirigida .
ARTIGO XIII
O presente Acôrdo substitui quaisquer atos , licenças , privilégios ou concessões porventura existentes ao tempo da assinatura, outrogados a qualquer título por qualquer das Partes Contratan tes em favor de empresas aéreas de nacionalidade da outra Parte Contra tante .

4136

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Entry into force.

ARTICLE XIV
The present Agreement will come into form thirty (30) days after the date of its signature .
In witness whereof the undersigned Plenipotentiaries have signed the present Agreement and affixed thereto their respective seals ,

Authentic texts.

Done in the city of Rio de Janeiro on the sixth day of September , 1946 , in two copies , in the Portuguese and English languages , both texts being equally authentic .

[ SEAL] [ SEAL ]

WILLIAM D. PAWLEY. JAMES M. LANDIS
AMANDO TROMPOWSKY S. DE SOUSA-LEAO GRACIE.

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- SEPT. 6, 1946

4137

ARTIGO XIV
O presente Acôrdo entrará em vigro 30 ( trinta) di as após a sua assinatura.
Em testemunha do que os Plenipotenciários , abaixo assinados , firmaram o presente Acôrdo e lhe apuzeram os respectivos se los .

Feito na cidade do Rio de Janeiro aos seis dias de setembro de 1946 , em dois exemplares , em idioma inglês e português , sen do ambos os textos igualmente autênticos .

WILLIAM D. PAWLEY. JAMES M. LANDIS

[SEAL]

AMANDO TROMPOWSKY

[SEAL]

S. DE SOUSA-LEAO GRACIE.

4138

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ANNEX

SECTION I.

Right granted to U. S. Government.

The Government of the United States of Brazil grants

to the Government of the United States of America the right to conduct

air transport services by one or more air carriers of American nationa

lity designated by the latter country on the routes , specified in Sche

Post, p. 4156.

dule I attached , which transit or serve commercially the territory of the United States of Brazil .

SECTION II .

Right granted to

The Government of the United States of America grants

Brazilian Govern-

ment.

to the Government of the United States of Brazil the right to conduct

air transport services by one or more air carriers of Brazilian nationa

Post, p. 4158.

lity designated by the latter country on the routes , specified in Sche dule II attached , which transit or serve commercially the territory of the United States of America .

SECTION III.

Rights oftransit and stop.

One or more air carriers designated by each ofthe Con

tracting Parties under the conditions provided in this Agreement will

enjoy , in the territory of the other Contracting Party , rights of tran-

sit , of stops for non-traffic purposes and of commercial entry and de-

parture for international traffic in passengers , cargo and mail at the

points enumerated and on each of the routes specified in the schedules

attached at all airports open to international traffic .

Consultation.

SECTION IV . The appropriate aeronautical authorities of each of the Contracting Parties will consult from time to time , or at the request of

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-SEPT. 6, 1946

4139

one of the Parties , to determine the extent to which the principles set

forth in Section V below are being followed by the airlines designated

by the Contracting Parties, so as to prevent an unfair proportion of tra

ffic being diverted from any designated airline through violation of tho se principle or principles enunciated elsewhere in this Agreement , the

Ante, p. 4121.

Annex , or the Protocol of Signature .

Post, p. 4152.

SECTION V.
It is agreed between the Contracting Parties : a ) that the air transport capacity offered by the carri- Capacity. ers of both countries should bear a close relationship to traffic requirements . b) that in the operation of common sections of trunk routes the air carriers of the Contracting Parties should take into account their reciprocal interests so as not to affect unduly their respective Services . c) that the services provided by a designated air carrier under this Agreement and its Annex shall retain as their primary objecti ve the provision of capacity adequate to the traffic demands between the country of which such air carrier is a national and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic ; d) that the right to embark and to disembark at points in etcR.ight to embark, the territory of the other country international traffic destined for or coming from third countries at a point or points specified in the Schedu les attached , shall be applied in accordance with the general principles of orderly development to which both government subscribe and shall be subject to the general principle that capacity shall be related : 1 · to traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination ;

4140

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

2 · to the requirements of through airline operation, and 3 · to the traffic requirements of the area through which the airline passes after taking account of local and regional services.

SECTION VI .

Change of gauge.

It is agreed between the Contracting Parties that , whe

re the onward carriage of traffic by an aircraft of different size from

that employed on the earlier stage of the same route (hereinafter refer

red to as " change of gauge " ) is justified by reason of economy of opera

tion, and where such change of gauge is to be made at a point in the ter

ritory of the United States of America or the United States of Brazil ,

the smaller aircraft will operate only in connection with the larger air

craft arriving at the point of change , so as to provide a connection ser

vice which will thus normally wait on the arrival of the larger aircraft,

for the primary purpose of carrying onward those passengers who have tra valled to the United States of America or the United States of Brazil in

the larger aircraft to their ultimate destination in the smaller aircraft.

It is likewise understood that the capacity of the smaller aircraft shall

be determined with primary reference to the traffic travelling in the lar

ger aircraft normally requiring to be carried onward . Where there are va cancies in the smaller aircraft such vacancies may be filled with passen

gers from the United States of America or the United States of Brazil reg

pectively without prejudice to the local traffic , exclusive of cabotage.

Rates.

SECTION VII .
a) The determination of rates in accordance with the follow ing paragraphs shall be made at reasonable levels , due regard being paid to all relevant factors , such as cost of operation, reasonable profit, and the rates charged by any other carriers , as well as the characteris-

61 STAT.] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-SEPT. 6, 1946

4141

tics of each service. b) The rates to be charged by the air carriers of either
Contracting Party between points in the territory of the United States and points in Brazilian territory referred to in the attached Schedules shall , consistent with the provisions of the present Agreement and its Annex , be subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of the Contracting Parties , who shall act in accordance with their obligations under the present Annex , within the limits of their legal powers .
c) Any rate proposed by the air carrier of carriers of Filing of proposed rates.
either Contracting Party shall be filed with the aeronautical authori ties of both Contracting Parties at least thirty days before the proposed date of introduction ; provided that this period of thirty days may be reduced in particular cases if so agreed by the aeronautical authori ties of both Contracting Parties .
d) The Civil Aeronautics Board of the United States ha- IATA.
ving approved the traffic conference machinery of the International Air Transport Association ( hereinafter called IATA) , for a period of one year beginning in February 1946 , any rate agreements concluded through this machinery during this period and involving United States air carriers will be subject to approval of the Board . Rate agreements concluded through this machinery may also be required to be subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of the United States of Brazil pursuant to the principles enunciated in paragraph ( b) above.
e) The Contracting Parties agree that the procedure deg cribed in paragraphs ( f) , ( g) and ( h ) of this Section shall apply
1 · If during the period of the Civil Aeronautics Board's ap proval of the IATA traffic conference machinery , either any specific rate agreement is not approved , within a reasonable time by either Con tracting Party or a conference of IATA is unable to agree on a rate, or
2 - at any time no IATA machinery is applicable , or 3 · if either Contracting Party at any time withdraws or fails

95347-50-PT. IV- 51

4142

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

to renew its approval of that of the IATA traffic conference machinery

relevant to this Section.

Prevention of unfair or uneconomic rates.

f) In the event that power is conferred by law upon the

aeronautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic

rates for the transport of persons and property by air on international services and to suspend proposed rates in a manner comparable to that in which the Civil Aeronautics Board at present is empowered to act

with respect to such rates for the transport of persons and property by air within the United States , each of the Contracting Parties shall thereafter exercise its authority in such manner as to prevent any rate or rates proposed by one of its carriers of services from the terri tory of one Contracting Party to a point or points in the territory of the other Contracting Party from becoming effective , if in the judge ment of the aeronautical authorities of the Contracting Party whose

air carrier or carriers is or are proposing such rate , that rate is un fair or uneconomic .

Notice ofdissatisfac-

If one of the Contracting Parties on receipt of the

tion with proposed

rate.

notification referred to in paragraph ( c ) above is disatisfied with the

rate proposed by the air carrier or carriers of the other Contracting

Party, it shall so notify the other Contracting Party prior to the ex-

piry of the first fifteen of the thirty days referred , to , and the Con

tracting Parties shall endeavour to reach agreement on the appropriate rate .

In the event that such agreement is reached , each Con

tracting Party will exercise its best efforts to put such rate into ef

fect as regards its air carrier or air carriers.

Rate effective provisionally.

If agreement has not been reached at the end of the

thirty day period referred to in paragraph ( c ) above , the proposed ra-

te may, unless the aeronautical authorities of the country of the air

carrier concerned see fit to suspend its application , go into effect

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- SEPT. 6, 1946

4143

provisionally pending the settlement of any dispute in accordance with the procedure outlined in paragraph ( h ) below.
g) Prior to the time when such power may be conferred by law upon the aeronauical authorities of the United States , if one of

the Contracting Parties is dissatisfied with any rate proposed by the air carrier or carriers of either Contracting Party for services from

the territory of one Contracting Party to a point or points in the terri tory of the other Contracting Party, it shall so notify the other prior to the expiry of the first fifteen of the thirty day period referred to in paragraph ( c) above , and the Contracting Parties shall endeavour to

reach agreement on the appropriate rate. In the event that such agreement is reached each Con-

tracting Party will use its best efforts to cause such agreed rate to be put into effect by its air carrier or carriers.
It is recognized that if no such agreement can be res-

oned prior to the expiry of such thirty days , the Contracting Party raising the objetion to the rate may take such steps as it may consider necessary to prevent the inauguration or continuation of the service in

question at the rate complained of. h) When in any case under paragraph ( f) and (g) above the
aeronautical authorities of the two Contracting Parties cannot agree withi a reasonable time upon the appropriate rate after consultation initiated

Advisory report.

by the complaint of one Contracting Party concerning the proposed rate or an existing rate of the air carrier or carriers of the other Contracting Party, upon the request of either, both Contracting Parties shall submit the question to the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or its successor for an advisory report , and each Party will use its best efforts under the powers available to it to put into effect the opinion expressed in such report .

4144

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SECTION VIII.

Changes in routes.

Changes made by either Contracting Party in the routes

415P8o.st, pp . 4156 , described in the Schedules attached except those which change the points served by these airlines in the territory of the other Contracting Party shall not be considered as modifications of the Annex. The aeronau-

tical authorities of either Contracting Party may therefore proceed uni

laterally to make such changes , provided , however, that notice of any

change is given without delay to the aeronautical authorities of the

other Contracting Party . If such other aeronautical authorities find that , having

Ante, p. 4139.

regard to the principles set forth in Section V of the present Annex, in terests of their air carrier or carriers are prejudiced by the carriage by the air carrier or carriers of the First Contracting Party of traffic between the territory of the second Contracting Party and the new point in the territory of a third country , the authorities of the two Contrac-

ting Parties shall consult with a view to arriving at a satisfactory agreement .

SECTION IX .

Exchange ofinformation.

After the present Agreement comes into force , the aero-

nautical authorities of both Contracting Parties will exchange informa-

tion as promptly as possible concerning the authorizations extended to their respective air carriers to designated to render service on the rou te mentioned in the annexed schedules or any part thereof . This will

specially include copies of authorizations granted together with such mo difications as may occur and any annexes.

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-SEPT. 6, 1946

4145

ANEXO
SECÇÃO 1. O Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil concede ao GOvêrno dos Estados Unidos da América o direito de assegurar , por intermé dio de uma ou várias empresas americanas de transporte aéreo indicadas por este último Governo , serviços aéreos nas rotas (mencionadas no quadro I anexo) que atravessam ou servem o território brasileiro .
SECÇÃO II . O Governo dos Estados Unidos da América concede ao Go vêrno dos Estados Unidos do Brasil o direito de assegurar , por intermédio de uma ou várias empresas brasileiras de transporte aéreo indicadas por êste último Governo , serviços aéreos nas rotas (mencionadas no quadro II anexo) que atravessam ou servem território americano .
SECÇÃO III .
 emprêsa ou empresas de transportes aéreos indicadas por uma das Partes Contratantes segundo as disposições do Acordo gozarão no território da outra Parte Contratante , nos pontos enumerados e em cada uma das rotas descritas nos quadros anexos , do direito de trânsito , de es calas para fins não comerciais e do direito de desembarcar e embarcar trá fico internacional de passageiros , cargas e malas postais em todos os aero portos abertos ao tráfego internacional .
SECÇÃO IV.
As autoridades aeronáuticas competentes das Partes Con tratantes consultar- se-ão de quando em quando , ou a pedido de uma delas,

4146

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

a fim de determinar até que ponto os princípios enunciados na Secção V, infra, estão sendo observados pelas empresas aéreas indicadas pelas Par tes Contratantes , de modo a evitar que uma proporção injusta de tráfico seja desviada de qualquer das empresas indicadas , em virtude de violação de um princípio ou princípios enunciados em qualquer parte dêste Acôrdo, de seu Anexo ou do Protocolo de Assinatura.
SECÇÃO V. Fica entendido entre as Partes Contratantes: a) que as capacidades de transporte oferecidas pelas presas dos dois países deverão ser adaptadas à procura do tráfico; b) que as empresas dos dois países deverão tomar em consideração , nos percursos comuns, os seus interesses mútuos , a fim de não afetarem indevidamente os seus respectivos serviços ; c) que os serviços explorados por una emprésa aérea indi sada segundo os termos dêste Acordo e seu Anexo terão por objetivo prin cipal oferecer uma capacidade correspondente à procura de tráfico entre o país a que pertence a empresa e o país a que se destina o tráfico; d) que o direito de embarcar e desembarcar , nos pontos  rotas especificados , tráfico internacional com destino a ou proveniente de terceiros países será exercido em conformidade com os princípios gerais do desenvolvimento ordenado do transporte aéreo aceitos pelos dois Governos , de modo que a capacidade seja adaptada : 1- à procura de tráfico entre o país de origem e os países de destino; 2 às exigências de uma exploração econômica dos serviços con siderados ; · 3 - à procura de tráfico existente nas regiões atravessadas,
respeitados os interèsses dos serviços locais e regionais.

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-SEPT. 6, 1946

4147

SECÇÃO VI .
Fica entendido entre as Partes Contratantes que, onde se justificar , em razão de economia de exploração dos serviços , a reali zação de tráfego , além de determinado ponto da rota , por aeronave de ca pacidade diferente da empregada no trecho anterior da mesma rota ( dora vante denominada "mudança de bitola " ) e onde essa mudança de bitola för feita num ponto do território dos Estados Unidos da América ou dos Esta dos Unidos do Brasil , a aeronave menor funcionará somente em conexão com  aeronave maior que chegar ao ponto de mudança , de forma a estabelecer
serviço conjugado que aguardará assim, normalmente , a chegada da aeronave maior para o fim principal de levar além, na aeronave menor, até seu último destino , os passageiros que viajarem até o território dos Eg Bados Unidos da América ou dos Estados Unidos do Brasil na aeronave maior.
Fica igualmente entendido que a capacidade da aeronave menor será determinada principalmente em função do tráfego em trânsi to na aeronave maior que exigir normalmente ser transportado para além. Quando existirem vagas na aeronave menor , tais vagas poderão ser preenchidas com passageiros dos Estados Unidos da América e dos Estados Unidos do Brasil , respectivamente, sem prejuízo do tráfego local e excluida a cabotagem.
SECÇÃO VII.
a) A fixação de, tarifas , de conformidade com o disposto nos parágrafos seguintes , deverá ser feita em niveis razoáveis , devendo ser levados em devida consideração todos os fatores relevantes , tais co mo o custo de exploração, lucros razoáveis , as tarifas cobradas pelas ou tras empresas, assim como as características apresentadas em cada serviço ;
b) As tarifas a serem cobradas pelas empresas aéreas de ca

4148

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

da uma das Partes Contratantes entre pontos no território dos Estados Unidos da América e pontos no território dos Estados Unidos do Brasil , mencio nados nos quadros anexos , deverão ser submetidos , de conformidade com as disposições do presente Acórdo e de seu Anexo , à aprovação das autoridades aeronáuticas de cada uma das Partes Contratantes , as quais agirão segundo as obrigações que resultarem do presente Anexo , dentro dos limites de seus poderes legais ;
e) Qualquer tarifa proposta pela empresa ou empresas de cada uma das Partes Contratantes deverá ser submetida às autoridades aeronáu ticas das duas Partes Contratantes no mínimo trinta días antes da data pre vista para sua vigência ; ficando entendido que êsse período de trinta días poderá ser reduzido em casos especiais se assim for acordado pelas autoridades aeronáuticas de ambas as Partes Contratantes ;
d) 0 " Civil Aeronautics Board" dos Estados Unidos da América , tendo aprovado pelo prazo de um ano , a começar em fevereiro de 1946 , o mecanismo da conferência de tráfego da "Associação Internacional de Transportes Aéreos" ( doravante denominada I.A.T.A. ) , os acordos sobre tarifas concluídos segundo aquêle mecanismo durante o aludido prazo e que interessem às empresas aéreas dos Estados Unidos da América , serão submetidos à aprovação do aludido " Civil Aeronautics Board" . Os acordos sobre tarifas concluídos por intermédio do referido mecanismo poderão igualmente ser submetido à exigência de aprovação pelas autoridades aeronáuticas dos Estados Unidos do Brasil , por força dos princípios enunciados no parágrafo b, supra;
e) As Partes Contratantes acordam que o processo previsto nos parágrafos í , g ·  da presente secção será aplicável :
1 - quando , durante o prazo da aprovação do " Civil Aeronautics Board" ao mecanismo das conferências de tráfego da I.A.T.A. , um dado acor do sobre tarifas não for aprovado dentro de um período razoável de tempo,

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- SEPT. 6, 1946

4149

por qualquer das Partes Contratantes , ou , ainda , quando uma conferência da I.A.T.A. não puder estabelecer uma tarifa , ou
2 · quando, em qualquer tempo , nenhum mecanismo da I.A.T.A. för aplicável , ou
3 - quando , em qualquer tempo , uma ou outra das Partes Contratan tes retirar ou abstiver- se de renovar sua aprovação àquela parte do mecanis mo das conferências de tráfego da I.A.T.A. concernentes à presente secção.
f) Se as autoridades aeronáuticas dos Estados Unidos da América forem investidas de poder legal para fixar as tarifas justas e econòmi cas para o transporte aéreo internacional de pessoas e coisas , assim como de suspender as tarifas propostas , como o " Civil Aeronautics Board" está atualmente habilitado a fazer no que concerne tais tarifas no interior dos Estados Unidos da América , cada uma das Partes Contratantes exercerá posteriormente sua autoridade de modo a impedir que se aplique qualquer tarifa proposta por uma de suas empresas para os serviços entre o território de ume das Partes Contratantes e o da outra, se , na opinião das autoridades aeronáu ticas da Parte Contratante cuja emprésa propõe uma tal tarifa, a referida ta rifa não é justa ou econômica.
Se uma das Partes Contratantes , depois de recebida a notificação prevista no parágrafo g, supra , não aprovar a tarifa proposta por uma empresa da outra Parte Contratante antes da expiração da metade do prazo de trinta días previsto , dará ciência dêsse fato à outra Parte Contratan te antes de terminados os primeiros quinze dias do período de trinta dias acima aludido , e as Partes Contratantes envidarão esforços para chegar a um acordo sobre a tarifa conveniente .
Se for alcançado tal acôrdo , cada Parte Contratante am pregará seus melhores esforços para que seja posta em vigor a referida tari fa por sua empresa ou empresas.
Se não fôr alçançado acordo ao fim do período dos trin-

4150

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

ta dias previstos no parágrafo £, supra , a tarifa proposta poderá ser posta em vigor , a título provisório, até a solução da disputa segundo o processo definido no parágrafo h infra, a menos que as autoridades aeronáuticas do país a que pertencer a empresa interessada não julguem dever suspender a aplicação da dita tarifa .
g) Enquanto as autoridades aeronáuticas dos Estados Unidos da América não dispuzerem de tais poderes legais , se uma das Partes Contratantes não aprovar uma tarifa proposta por uma empresa ou empresas de uma ou de outra Parte Contratante para serviços entre o território de uma das Partes Contratantes e o da outra , a referida Parte Contratante dará ciência à outra, antes do fim da metade do prazo de trinta días previsto no parágrafo £, supra, e as Fartes Contratantes envidarão esforços para chegar a um acor do sobre a tarifa conveniente .
Se for alcançado tal acordo , cada uma das Partes Contratantes empregará seus melhores esforços para que seja posta em vigor a referida tarifa por sua empresa ou empresas .
Fica entendido que , se um tal acordo não puder ser al cançado antes da expiração dos referidos trinta dias , a Parte Contratante que levantar objeções à tarifa poderá tomar a medida que julgar necessário para o fim de impedir a inauguração ou manutenção do serviço em questão à tarifa discutida .
h) Caso o processo de consultas definido nos parágrafos £ e g supra não vier a resultar, dentro de um prazo razoável , num acôrde entre as autoridades aeronáuticas das duas Partes Contratantes relativamente a uma tarifa conveniente , a disputa será submetida, por solicitação de uma ou de outra das Partes Contratantes , ao parecer consultivo da Organização Frovisória de Aviação Civil Internacional , ou do órgão que a suceder , e as Far tes Contratantes envidarão os seus melhores esforços , nos limites dos pode-

61 STAT.] BRAZIL- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-SEPT. 6, 1946

4151-

res ao seu alcance , para por em execução a opinião que emitir aquêle órgão internacional.
SECÇÃO VIII.
Quaisquer modificações feitas por uma das Partes Contra tantes nas rotas mencionadas nos quadros anexos , excetuadas as que altera rem os pontos servidos no território da outra Parte Contratante , não serão consideradas como alterações do Anexo . As autoridades aeronáuticas de cada uma das Partes Contratantes poderão , por conseguinte , proceder unilateralmente a uma tal modificação , desde que , porém , sejam disto notificadas , sem demora, as autoridades aeronáuticas da outra Parte Contratante .
Se estas últimas julgarem, tidos em consideração os prin cípios enunciados na Secção V do presente Anexo , que os interesses de suas empresas nacionais são prejudicados pelas empresas do outro país , por já estar assegurado o tráfego entre o seu próprio território e a nova escala em terceiro país , as autoridades de ambas as Partes Contratantes consultar-86ão a fim de chegar a um acordo satisfatório .
SECÇÃO IX. Depois de entrar em vigor o presente Acôrdo , as autoridades aeronáuticas das duas Partes Contratantes deverão comunicar uma à outra, tão cedo quanto possível , as informações concernentes às autorizações dadas à sua ou às suas empresas indicadas para explorar as linhas mencionadas nos quadros anexos ou em trechos das referidas linhas . Estas informações incluirão especialmente cópia das autorizações concedidas , acompanhadas de eventuais modificações e documentos anexos .

4152

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

PROTOCOL OF SIGNATURE

Points ofagreement.

It appeared in the course of negotiations leading up to

Ante, p. 4121.

the conclusion of the Agreement on air services between the United States of

America and the United States of Brazil signed at Rio de Janeiro today that the representatives of the two Contracting Parties were in agreement on the

following points :

Equal opportunity foroperation ofroutes.
Ante, p. 4138.

1 - The air carriers of the two Contracting Parties operating on the routes described in the Annex of said Agreement shall enjoy

fair and equal opportunity for the operation of the said routes .

2 · When it is verified to be temporarily impossible

for the carrier or carriers of one of the Contracting Parties , on a route , to fake equal advantage of the opportunities referred to in 1 , above , the situa tion thus arising will be mutually examined by both Governments for the pur-

pose of assisting the said carrier or carriers to increasingly participate in the services contemplated on a fair and equitable basis .

Determination of tariffs.

3 · It is recognized that the determination of tariffs

to be applied by an air carrier of one Contracting Party between the territory

of the other Contracting Party and a third country is a complex question , the

overall solution of which cannot be sought through consultation between only

two countries . It is noted , furthermore , that the method of determining such

tariffs is now being studied by the Provisional International Civil Aviation

Organization . It is understood under these circumstances :

Ante, p. 4139.

a) - That , pending the acceptance by both parties of any recommendations which the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organi zation may make after its study of this matter , such tariffs shall be subject to consideration under the provisions of Section V ( b) of the Annex to the

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-SEPT. 6, 1946

4153

Agreement .

b) · That in case the Provisional International Civil

Aviation Organization fails to establish a means of determining such rates

satisfactory to both Contracting Parties , the consultation provided for in

Article VIII of the Agreement shall be in order .

Ante, p. 4130.

4154

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

PROTOCOLO DE ASSINATURA

No curso das negociações que terminaram com a assinatura do Acôrdo relativo aos serviços aéreos entre o território dos Estados Unidos da América e o dos Estados Unidos do Brasil , firmado na cidade do Rio de Janeiro em data de hoje , os representantes das duas Partes Contratantes mostra ram-se de acordo sobre os seguintes pontos :

1 · As empresas aéreas das duas Partes Contratantes que forem indicadas para as linhas mencionadas no Anexo do referido Acôrdo devem estar em condições de gozar de oportunidade igual e equitativa para a exploração das referidas linhas .
2 · Quando se verificar temporàriamente numa rota a impossibilidade por parte da emprêsa ou empresas aéreas de uma das Partes Contratantes de gozar da igualdade de oportunidade referida em 1 , supra , a sítuação assim surgida será examinada por ambos os Governos para que auxiliem a referida empresa ou emprê sas permitindo- lhes progressivamente uma participação justa e equitativa nos serviços considerados .

3 · Foi reconhecido que a fixação de tarifas a serem aplicadas pela emprêsa ou empresas de uma das Partes Contratantes entre 0

território da outra Parte Contratante e um terceiro país é um assunto comple xo , cuja solução de conjunto não poderá ser encontrada por consulta unicamen te entre dois países . Foi observado , além disto , que as condições para fixação das referidas tarifas está sendo objeto de estudo pela Organização Internacional Provisória de Aviação Civil . Nessas condições , ficou entendido :

a)

Que , pendendo a aceitação por ambas as Bartes Con-

tratantes das recomendações que a Organização Internacional Provisória de Avia

ção Civil possa fazer em conclusão de seus trabalhos sobre o assunto , tais ta-

61 STAT.] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-SEPT. 6, 1946

4155

tarifas serão apreciadas em função das disposições da Secção V , b do Anexo ao Acôrdo;
b) .· Que , não conseguindo a Organização Internacional Provisória de Aviação Civil estabelecer as condições para fixação das refe ridas tarifas ,a contento das duas Partes Contratantes , poderá ter lugar consulta prevista no Artigo VIII do Acôrdo .

4156

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I AMERICAN ROUTES  BRAZIL AND ACROSS BRAZILIAN TERRITORY

Part 1 . Part 2 .

TO BRAZIL :

a)

From the United States of America , via inter-

mediate points in the Caribbean , South Ameri-

ca , to Manaus-Goiania and Rio de Janeiro or

São Paulo ; in both directions .

Remark : While the route Manaus -Goiania-
Rio de Janeiro is not ready for international operation , it will be replaced by the following route : "From the United States of America , via intermediate points in the West Coast of South America , to
Campo Grande , São Paulo and Rio de Janei ro; in both directions "

ACROSS BRAZIL :

a)

From the United States of America , via interme

diate points in the Caribbean and South America, to Belém , Natal and beyond to Africa ; in both directions . ( In the event meteorological condi

tions in the North Atlantic su require , this

route may be used also to Europe ) .

b)

From the United States of Ameri ca via interme-

diate points in the Caribbean and South America ,

to Belém-Barreiras - Rio de Janeiro - São Paulo , Pôr

(0

to Alegre and beyond ; in both directions .
From the United States of America via intermedi ·
ate points in the Caribbean , South America , to

Manaus , Goiânia , Guaira and beyond , in both di-

rections .

Remark: This route shall be put into ope ration only when the Manaus- Goiania- Rio de Janeiro route is ready .

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- SEPT. 6, 1946

4157

QUADRO I
ROTAS AMERICANAS PARA O BRASIL E ATRAVÉS DO TERRITÓRIO BRASILEIRO
la Parte · PARA O BRASIL:
Dos Estados Unidos da América via pontos intermediários nas Caraibas , América do Sul, para Manáus , Goiânia e Rio de Janeiro ou São Paulo , em ambas as direções .
Observação : Enquanto não ficar aparelhada a rota Manaus -Goiânia - Rio de Janeiro , a li nha acima fica substituida por : "Dos Estados Unidos da América via pontos intermedi ários na costa oeste da América do Sul , pa ra Campo Grande , São Paulo e Rio de Janeiro, em ambas as direções" .
2a Parte · ATRAVES DO BRASIL :
a) Dos Estados Unidos da América via pontos intermedi ários nas Caraibas e América do Sul , para Belém, Na tal e além para a África , em ambas as direções . (Eventualmente para a Europa quando as condições me teorológicas do Atlântico Norte o exigirem) .
b) Dos Estados Unidos da América , via pontos intermediários nas Caraibas e América do Sul , para Belém, Barreiras , Rio de Janeiro , São Paulo , Porto Alegre, e além, em ambas as direções .
o) Dos Estados Unidos da América , via pontos intermediários nas Caraibas e América do Sul , para ManáusGoiânia-Guaira e além, em ambas as direções.
Observação: - Esta róta só entrará em funcionamento quando aparelhada a róta ManáusGoiânia-Rio .

95347°-50- PT. IV-- -52

4158

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
SCHEDULE II BRAZILIAN ROUTES TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND
ACROSS AMERICAN TERRITORY

1st . Part

TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:
1. From the United States of Brazil , via intermediate points in South America and in the Caribbean , inclu sive of Puerto Rico , to New York or Washington, (al ternative ) , in both directions .
2. From the United States of Brazil , via intermediate points in South America and in the Caribbean, inclu sive of Puerto Rico , to Miami and Chicago , in both directions .
3. From the United States of Brazil , via intermediate points in South America and in the Caribbean , inclu sive of Puerto Rico , to Miami and New Orleans , in both directions .

2nd . Part · ACROSS THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA :
1. From the terminal points named in the routes mentio ned above by any reasonably direct route to points in third countries , in both directions .

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-SEPT. 6, 1946
QUADRO II ROTAS BRASILEIRAS PARA OS ESTADOS UNIDOS DA AMÉRICA E
ATRAVES DO TERRITÓRIO AMERICANO

4159

la. Parte

PARA OS ESTADOS UNIDOS DA AMERICA :
1. Dos Estados Unidos do Brasil , via pontos inter mediários na América do Sul e nas Caraíbas , in clusive Porto Rico , Nova York ou Washington (al ternativa ) em ambas as direções .
2. Dos Estados Unidos do Brasil , via pontos inter mediários na América do Sul e nas Caraibas , in clusive Porto Rico , para Miami e Chicago , em am bas as direções .
3. Dos Estados Unidos do Brasil , via pontos inter mediários na América do Sul e nas Caraibas , in clusive Porto Rico , para Miami e New Orleans, em ambas as direções .

28. Parte

· ATRAVÉS DOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DA AMERICA :
1. Dos pontos terminais estabelecidos nas rotas acima para quaisquer pontos além, em rotas razoavelmente diretas para terceiros países , em ambas as direções .

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-POSTAL CONVENTION- SEPT. 17, 30, 1947

4161

Postal convention between the United States of America and the Republic Sep(Tt.emIb.eAr.1S7., 31091, 31]947 of the Philippines. Signed at Manila September 17, 1947, and at Washington September 30, 1947; entered into force October 1 , 1947.
POSTAL CONVENTION BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

4162

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

POSTAL CONVENTION BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

For the purpose of making postal arrangements between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines, the undersigned, Robert E. Hannegan, Postmaster General of the United States of America and R. Nepomuceno, Secretary of Public Works and Communications of the Republic of the Philippines, by virtue of authority vested in them by law, have agreed upon the following articles :

Article 1

Articles subject to provisions of Convention.

(a) The provisions of this Convention will apply to letters, single and reply-paid post cards, prints of all kinds including printed matter for the blind and second-class matter, commercial papers, samples

without value, and small packets, ordinary and registered, and to par-

cel - post packages, ordinary only. These articles will be subject to such regulations in the country of destination as that country may deem necessary to protect its customs revenue.

(b) The two Administrations advise each other, by means of the List of Prohibited Articles published by the International Bureau of

the Universal Postal Union, of all prohibited articles. However, they do not on that account assume any responsibility towards the customs or police authorities or the sender.
If parcels wrongly admitted to the mails are neither returned to origin nor delivered to the addressee, the Administration of origin must be informed in a precise manner of the treatment accorded the parcel.
(c) The Administration of origin is entitled to collect from the sender of each parcel the postage and the fees for requests for information as to the disposal of a parcel made after it has been posted.
Except in the case of returned or redirected parcels, pre-payment of

the postage and such of the fees mentioned in the preceding paragraph as are applicable, is compulsory.

(d) The weight limit for parcel- post packages shall be 44 pounds for parcels addressed for delivery in the United States and the whole

of its possessions ; the cities of Manila, Baguio, Iloilo, Cebu, Zamboanga and Davao, and the municipality of Tacloban in the province

of Leyte, Philippines, and 11 pounds for parcels addressed for delivery in other points of the Philippines. Parcel post packages containing legal, educational, medical and scientific books up to 22 pounds ( 10 kilograms) in weight for provincial capitals and other cities in the Philippines may also be accepted for mailing in the United States.

The dimensions shall be : Greatest combined length and girth, 6 feet.

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES- POSTAL CONVENTION-SEPT. 17, 30, 1947

4163

Greatest length, 31½ feet, except that parcels may measure up to 4 feet

in length, on condition that parcels over 42 and not over 44 inches

in length do not exceed 24 inches in girth, parcels over 44 and not over

46 inches in length do not exceed 20 inches in girth, and parcels over

46 inches and up to 4 feet in length do not exceed 16 inches in girth.

The weight limits and dimensions for the other articles mentioned

above under (a) as well as the postage rates and registration fees for

such articles will be the same as are generally applicable from the

United States of America to the countries of the Americo- Spanish

Postal Union. In no case may the rates, fees, weight limits and dimen-

sions or other provisions be less favorable, for the public, than those provided for by the Universal Postal Convention then in force.

(e) Except as required by the regulations of the country of destination for the collection of its customs duties, all admissible matter

mailed in one country for the other, or received in one country from the other, shall be free from any detention or inspection whatever, and shall be forwarded by the most speedy means to its destination and be

promptly delivered to the respective persons to whom it is addressed,

being subject in its transmission to the laws and regulations of such

country respectively.

Article 2

Fees collected on (a) Each Administration shall retain to its own use the whole of the postal articles. postage and registration, or special delivery fees it collects on postal articles exchanged with the other, including deficient postage, but it is agreed that on packages sent at parcel post rates, the country of origin shall allow to the country of destination on the total excess number of parcel post packages dispatched over the number of such packages received, 30 cents for each parcel not over 11 pounds in weight and 60 cents for each parcel over 11 pounds in weight, settlement to be made quarterly in a general postal account between the two countries on the basis of the parcel bills. The charges specified above may be reduced or increased on three months previous notice given by one country to the other. These reductions or increases shall hold good for at least one year.

(b) The charges to be paid for the transit of parcel post and air mail of one country by the services of the other country shall be fixed by the country whose services are utilized.

(c) The charges to be paid for the transit to a third country of articles in the regular mails of one country by the services of the other country shall be the transit charges, based on transit statistics, provided by the Universal Postal Convention then in force.

( d ) In case of the total loss of a registered article originating in either country and addressed to the other, the maximum indemnity shall be the amount provided by the Universal Postal Union Convention in force from time to time.

(e) The special delivery fee to be levied and collected upon first class mail matter originating in either country and addressed to the other shall be twenty cents.

4164

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

(f) Articles of every kind not prepaid or insufficiently prepaid, originating in either country and addressed to the other, shall be dealt with in accordance with the regulations prescribed by the Universal Postal Union Convention in force for unprepaid and insufficiently prepaid articles.
Article 3

Redirected parcel post packages.

In case a parcel post package is redirected from one address to another in the country of destination, it shall be subject to an additional charge for postage. The country of destination may, at its

option, levy and collect from the addressee of a parcel post package for interior service and delivery, a charge, the amount of which is to be fixed according to its own regulations, but which shall in no case exceed five cents for each parcel regardless of weight. A customs clearance charge may also be collected on each parcel post package which may in no case exceed ten cents for each parcel.

Article 4

Exchange post

offices.

(a) Exchanges of mails under this Convention shall be effected

through the post offices of both countries designated as exchange post

offices under such regulations relative to the details of the exchanges

as may be mutually determined to be essential to the security and

expedition of the mails and the protection of the customs revenues.

(b) Each country shall provide for and bear the expense of the conveyance of its mails to the other.

Article 5

Registration of correspondence.

(a) Any packet of mailable correspondence, with the exception of parcels prepaid at parcel post rates, may be registered upon payment of the rate of postage and the registration fee applicable thereto in

the country of origin.

(b) An acknowledgment of the delivery of a registered article shall be returned to the sender when requested ; but either country may

require of the sender prepayment of a fee therefor not exceeding ten cents.

Article 6

Ordinary and registered exchanges shall be effected in properly closed sacks, under such regulations relative to the details of the exchanges as may be mutually determined to be essential.
If a registered article advised shall not be found in the mails by the receiving office, its absence shall be immediately reported by the receiving to the sending office.

Article 7

Prepayment on par. cel post packages.

( a) All parcel post packages must be fully prepaid before dispatch.

Parcels which are not delivered for any cause, shall be reciprocally

returned without charge, through the appropriate exchange offices of

the two countries, after the expiration of the period for their detention

prescribed by the laws or regulations of the country of destination.

Such parcels shall be liable on return to senders to a charge equal to

61 STAT.] PHILIPPINES-POSTAL CONVENTION- SEPT. 17, 30, 1947

4165

the amount required to fully prepay the postage thereon when originally mailed. Insufficiently prepaid articles in the regular mails shall be liable on return to senders to the charge for deficient postage that would have been collected from the addressees if said articles had been delivered.
Article 8

(a) Parcel-post packages shall be dispatched in separate sacks from other articles.
(b) Parcel bills shall be prepared in duplicate for such parcels dispatched.
The duplicate is sent in the regular mails, while the original is inserted in one of the sacks. The sack containing the parcel bill is to be designated by the letter "F" on the label.
(c) The parcels included in each dispatch are to be entered on the bills to show the total number of parcels according to the following divisions of weight :

Dispatch of parcels.

(1) not over 11 pounds (2) over 11 pounds
(d) Parcels sent "a decouvert" must be entered separately on the bills.
Returned or redirected parcels must be entered individually on the bills and be followed by the word "Returned" or " Redirected".
(e) The total number of sacks comprising each dispatch must also be shown on the bills.
(f) Each dispatching exchange office numbers the bills in the upper left-hand corner in accordance with an annual series. The last num-
ber of the preceding year must be mentioned on the first bill of the following year.
(g) The exact method of advising parcels or the receptacles containing them sent by one Administration in transit through the other, together with any details of procedure in connection with the advice of such parcels or receptacles for which provision is not made in this Convention, shall be settled by mutual consent through correspondence between the two Administrations.

Article 9

(a) On receipt of a dispatch of parcel post packages , the exchange

Receipt of parcel post dispatch.

office of destination proceeds to verify it. The entries in the parcel

bill must be verified exactly. Each error or omission must be brought

immediately to the knowledge of the dispatching exchange office by

means of a bulletin of verification. A dispatch is considered as hav-

ing been found in order in all regards when no bulletin of verification is made up.

If any error or irregularity which could give rise to liability for compensation is found upon receipt of a dispatch , all objects which may serve later on for investigations, or for examination of requests for indemnity, must be kept.

4166

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
(b) The dispatching exchange office to which a bulletin of verification is sent returns it after having examined it and entered thereon its observations, if any. That bulletin is then attached to the parcel bills of the parcels to which it relates. Corrections made on a parcel bill which are not justified by supporting papers are considered as devoid of value.
(c) If necessary, the dispatching exchange office may also be advised by telegram, at the expense of the office sending such telegram.
(d ) In case of shortage of a parcel bill, a duplicate is prepared, a copy of which it sent to the exchange office of origin of the dispatch.
(e) The office of exchange which receives from a corresponding office a parcel which is damaged or insufficiently packed must redispatch such parcel after repacking, if necessary, preserving the original packing as far as possible.
If the damage is such that the contents of the parcel may have been abstracted, the office must first officially open the parcel and verify its contents.
In either case, the weight of the parcel will be verified before and after repacking, and indicated on the wrapper of the parcel itself. That indication will be followed by the note "Repacked at
.", and the signature of the agents who have effected such repacking.
Article 10
All matters connected with the exchange of mails between the two countries, which are not herein provided for, shall be governed by the provisions of the Universal Postal Convention and Regulations then in force, so far as the provisions of such Universal Postal Convention and Regulations shall be obligatory upon both of the contracting parties, except as hereafter modified or changed.

Article 11

Changes and modi- The Postmaster General of the United States of America and the fications.
Secretary of Public Works and Communications of the Republic of the Philippines shall have authority to jointly make such further regulations of order and detail and to provide for such changes and modifications as may be found necessary to carry out the present Convention from time to time.
Article 12

Ratification.

This Convention shall be ratified [ 1 ] by the contracting countries in accordance with their respective laws, and its ratifications shall be

[By the President of the United States of America February 10, 1948 ; and by the President of the Republic of the Philippines December 31, 1948. ]

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES POSTAL CONVENTION- SEPT. 17, 30, 1947

4167

exchanged as early as possible.

Effective date; dura. It shall take effect on a date [2 ] to be tion.

mutually decided on and shall continue in force until terminated by mutual agreement, or annulled at the instance of the Post Office De-

partment of either country, upon six months previous notice given to the other.

Done in duplicate and signed at Manila, Philippines, the 17th day of September, 1947, and at Washington the 30th day of September, 1947.

 Thefemers
R. NEPOMUCENO Secretary of Public Works and Communications
of the Republic of the Philippines

[ SEAL]

ROBERT E. HANNEGAN Postmaster General of the United States of A merica

The foregoing Postal Convention between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines has been negotiated and concluded with my advice and consent, and is hereby approved and ratified .

In testimony whereof I have caused the great seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed.

[SEAL ]

HARRY S TRUMAN

By the President. G C MARSHALL

Secretary of State. Washington, February 10, 1948.

Ratification by U.S.

[ Entered into force Oct. 1, 1947. In a communication, dated Mar. 16, 1949, from the United States Postmaster General to the Secretary of State the following information was furnished : "The procedure whereby the Convention became effective on October 1, 1947, was the publication in the Postal Bulletin of September 30, 1947, of Order of the Postmaster General No. 35519, dated September 26, 1947, setting forth the changes to be made in the mail service with the Republic of the Philippines effective October 1, 1947, as provided in the Convention. " ]

4168

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

June 21, 1947 [T.I.A.S. 1920]

Agreement between the United States of America and Austria respecting the settlement of certain war accounts and claims. Signed at Vienna June 21 , 1947; entered into force June 21 , 1947.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE FEDERAL GOV. ERNMENT OF AUSTRIA REGARDING SETTLEMENT FOR WAR ACCOUNTS AND CLAIMS INCIDENT TO THE OPERATIONS OF THE U. S. FORCES IN AUSTRIA DURING THE PERIOD 9 APRIL 1945 TO 30 JUNE 1947, INCLUSIVE

PREAMBLE

1. The Government of the United States of America and the Gov-

ernment of Austria have reached an understanding regarding the

settlement for outstanding war accounts and claims incident to the

operations of the United States Forces in Austria from the liberation

of Austria on 9 April 1945 to 30 June 1947, inclusive. This agreement

is in full, complete and final settlement, and the signatory govern-

ments agree that, except as herein specifically provided, no further

benefits will be sought by either of them as consideration for the

foregoing. In arriving at this understanding, the signatory govern-

ments have recognized the benefits accruing to each from the libera-

tion of Austria on 9 April 1945, the early establishment of that

economic security necessary for a lasting peace as well as the difficulties

connected on each side with the keeping of detailed accounts and

Effective date for payment with U. 8. dollar funds.

records during the period of and following actual combat operations of field armies.
2. Effective 1 July 1947, rentals, facilities, goods, services, and schillings procured by the U. S. Occupational Forces stationed in

Austria will be paid for with U. S. dollar funds.

ARTICLE I

Payment ofprior obligations incurred by

3. The Government of the United States agrees to pay the sum of

U.S.Forces in Austria. Three Hundred Eight Million Three Hundred Eighty Two Thousand

Five Hundred Ninety Schillings ( Sch 308,382,590 ) to the Austrian Government in full and final settlement of all obligations incurred by

United States Forces, agencies ( Public or Quasi- Public ) together

with forces of other nations operating under command of the U. S.

Forces in Austria, during the period 9 April 1945 to 30 June 1947, inclusive.

4. The Austrian Government agrees to accept Three Hundred Eight Million Three Hundred Eighty Two Thousand Five Hundred Ninety Schillings in full , final and complete settlement and payment of all

61 STAT. ]

AUSTRIA-WAR ACCOUNTS-JUNE 21, 1947

4169

claims which have arisen or may arise as a result of acts which occurred prior to 1 July 1947.
5. The word claims as used covers all claims and includes specifically but is not restricted to the following :
a. Claims for the loss, damage, destruction and use of property , whether real, personal, or mixed and for supplies, communication, transportation and other services, requisitioned, ordered and used, arising out of the exercise or purported exercise of belligerent, occupational or other rights and all other claims of any type whatever against the United States by the Austrian Government, nationals of Austria, or persons owning property in or residing in Austria.
b. Claims for rentals for real estate occupied during the period 9 April 1945 to 30 June 1947, inclusive.
c. Claims for cost of supplies and services of any type whatever, furnished during the aforesaid period to the Government of the United States and to individuals accredited to United States Forces in Austria.
d. Settlement in full for the completed and delivered portion of all contracts entered into by representatives of the Government of the United States with Austrian nationals or others owning property, rendering service or residing in Austria, entered into prior to 1 July 1947.

Claims.

6. The Austrian Government guarantees the Government of the United States to adjudicate individual claims, pay to individuals and settle with individuals, both Austrian nationals and others owning property, rendering service or residing in Austria, and to guarantee full protection to the United States against any claims for services, supplies, and other obligations of whatever nature which occurred during the period 9 April 1945 to 1 July 1947.
7. The Austrian Government recognizes the validity and propriety of the payments made during the aforementioned period in schillings by the United States for obligations of whatsoever nature.
ARTICLE II
8. The Austrian Government agrees that nothing in this agreement Loans made by agency of U. S. Gov-
is to be construed as settlement of, or in any manner or form as ernment, etc. abrogating the terms of any loans made by any agency of the Government of the United States to the Austrian Government. The Austrian Government further agrees that nothing in this agreement is to be construed as modifying or abrogating the terms of any private agreements entered into by citizens or corporations of the United States with citizens or corporations of or residing in Austria, and will not be construed as changing in any manner whatever or abrogating any securities issued by the Austrian Government or corporations whose home office is in Austria.
ARTICLE III
9. The United States Forces in Austria will deliver to the Austrian Records pertaining to obligations, etc.
Government all records, vouchers, etc. pertaining to the obligation

4170

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

and claims of Austrian Governmental agencies, Austrian nationals, corporations, individuals residing in or owning property in Austria, and foreign and local corporations, remaining unpaid as of 1 July 1947 .
10. The United States Forces in Austria will hold available for in-
spection by the Austrian Government, for a period of two years from the date of signing this agreement, all records pertaining to bills paid or claims settled by the United States Forces in Austria, with Austrian Governmental agencies, Austrian nationals, individuals residing in or owning property in Austria, including claims by or bills owing to foreign and local corporations and remaining unsettled as of 1 July 1947.
11. The Austrian Government will hold available for inspection by representatives of the Government of the United States, for a period of two years from the date of signing this agreement, all records pertaining to financial transactions, supplies, services, and personal services, furnished to the Government of the United States, during the period 9 April 1945 to 1 July 1947.

ARTICLE IV

Derequisitioned property, etc.

12. The Austrian Government further agrees that no amount will

be charged to the United States Forces in Austria for any real prop-

erties, chattels appurtenant thereto or personal services in connection

therewith which shall be derequisitioned and vacated by the United

Official language of Agreement.

States Forces in Austria prior to 31 July 1947 or for any claims arising out of the termination of employment.
13. This English text in 4 pages including this one is agreed upon as the official language of this agreement, but a translation into German will be made.

In witness whereof the parties hereto by their duly authorized representatives have hereunto set their hands at Vienna, Austria, this 21st day of June 1947.

FOR THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

FOR THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF AUSTRIA

ExcoffraKyayar GEOFFREY LEYES Lieutenant General, USA
High Commissioner

FullLionale GründerMany les fir

Es tereich. [}

¹ [Translation: Chancellor for the Federal Government of Austria. ]

61 STAT. ] AUSTRIA-OCCUPATION COSTS-JUNE 21, 1947

4171

Agreement between the United States of America and Austria respecting occupation costs of United States Forces in Austria. Signed at Vienna June 21 , 1947; entered into force July 1 , 1947.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN UNITED STATES FORCES IN AUSTRIA AND THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF AUSTRIA

June 21, 1947 [T.I.A.S. 1921]

In order to assist the Government of Austria in the restoration of

its economic life and the return of its democratic processes, the United

States Forces in Austria hereby declares its policy in regard to the payment of Occupation Costs in Austria :
Hereafter, the United States Forces in Austria will pay, in United States dollars, for all real estate and chattels appurtenant thereto , utility service, services, and supplies furnished for the maintenance of United States Forces in Austria.

Payment in U. 8. dollars.

To assist the United States Forces in Austria in the accomplish-

ment of this objective, the Austrian Government hereby subscribes

to the following procedures and agrees to furnish technical assistance

necessary to implement the provisions stated below :

PAYMENT PROCEDURE :

1. Payment for real estate and chattels appurtenant thereto , utility service, services and supplies furnished will be made quarterly, or at such shorter intervals as may be deemed desirable by the United States Forces in Austria in American dollars by the United States Forces in Austria to the Austrian Government. The United States Forces in Austria will present vouchers quarterly or at such shorter intervals as may be deemed desirable by the United States Forces in Austria on all items furnished together with sufficient dollars at the agreed rate of exchange to cover the amount included in the vouchers, for which the Austrian Government will acknowledge receipt and make proper payment against the vouchers submitted and all claims arising under future agreements.
BASES FOR DETERMINATION OF RENTALS AND VALUES :

2. The rental value of real estate and chattels appurtenant thereto will be determined by adding ( a ) the annual furnished rental value in schillings of the real estate as determined by the Federal Ministry of Finance of the Austrian Government as of 1 June 1947, (b) estimated annual schilling cost of electricity, gas and water, ( c ) estimated annual schilling cost of such inspections and services as may be re-

4172

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
quired by Austrian law and dividing the total in schillings by twelve to determine the monthly rate. This monthly schilling rate will be then computed in dollars at the agreed rate of exchange. In any case where the rental value of the real estate including ( a ) , ( b ) and (c) above and chattels appurtenant thereto may not have been estimated as of 1 June 1947, the Federal Ministry of Finance agrees to establish not later than 31 July 1947 a value in accordance with practices and similar valuations in effect as of 1 June 1947.
3. The cost of public utility services, such as electricity, gas, and water, other than that which is included in rental agreements, will be in accordance with the rates in schillings prescribed by the Occupation Forces as of 1 June 1947.
4. The cost of personal services, other than that covered in rental agreements , will be in accordance with the wage rates in schillings prevailing at the time in the general locality where the services are performed and as may be negotiated with the appropriate officials.
5. The cost of supplies in Austria will be at prevailing prices which have been approved by the Office of Price Control of the Austrian Government.
6. The Austrian Government agrees to maintain properties required for use by the United States Forces in Austria in a condition acceptable to the Commanding General, United States Forces in Austria. If, however, lack of materials or of articles necessary for proper maintenance of such properties prevent the Austrian Government from fulfilling its obligation in this respect, the United States Forces in Austria may make the necessary repairs and deduct the cost of same from the accrued and accruing rentals.
ACCRUED OR PENDING CLAIMS
7. For various valuable considerations, receipt of which is acknowledged by the Austrian Government, the said Austrian Government hereby acknowledges and assumes full and complete responsibility for the adjudication and for the appropriate payment of all such claims against the United States arising out of the use by the United States Forces in Austria, of real estate in Austria, loss, damage to or destruction of fixtures and chattels appurtenant thereto ; and loss, damage to or destruction of real, personal, and mixed property, as may have accrued during the period 9 April 1945 and 30 June 1947 inclusive as to both dates, without regard to the nationality
of the person asserting the claim, thereby relieving the United States of all liability to receive, adjudicate and settle claims of that nature.
RESERVATIONS
8. The United States Forces in Austria reserves all right, title, and interest in fixtures which are the property of the United States Government and which have been installed in real estate heretofore

61 STAT.] AUSTRIA- OCCUPATION COSTS-JUNE 21, 1947

4173

requisitioned, and in all fixtures hereafter installed and paid for by the United States Forces in Austria , except when the value of the same

shall be charged against the rental of the property in which installed or included in a single payment settlement to the Austrian Government

of outstanding obligations.

9. None of the terms or provisions of this instrument shall be

interpreted or construed in such a manner as to limit or abrogate the

rights and powers vested in the Commanding General, United States

Forces in Austria, and the High Commissioner, whether or not the functions of those offices be combined in one and the same individual,

under the Allied Control Agreement.

10. The Austrian Government agrees that, without the express

consent of the Commanding General, United States Forces in Austria, or of the United States High Commissioner, no law it has heretofore enacted or may hereafter enact to ration and limit the use of electricity, gas, and water shall apply to the use thereof by the United States.

Forces in Austria, but that those utilities will be furnished , without

restriction other than those imposed by an act of God , in accordance with paragraph 3 hereof.

11. The Austrian Government further agrees that during the

presence in Austria of representatives of the United States in connec-

tion with the Occupation of Austria it will enter into agreements with

any other United States Government agency now or hereafter requir-

ing real estate and chattels appurtenant thereto, identical to this agree-

ment unless more favorable terms are offered by the Government of Austria.

12. The Austrian Government hereby agrees that it will not cause

nor permit the destruction , removal or exchange of any chattels, furniture, fixtures or accessories in real property the subject of this agree-

ment or of agreements entered into between the agents of the Austrian Government and the United States Forces in Austria in conformity with this agreement.
13. This agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto as of

Effective date.

1 July 1947 and until revised in whole or in part or abrogated by mutual agreement.
14. The Austrian Government recognizes that after 1 July 1947 there will be need by the United States Government for Austrian

Repurchase of Austrian schillings.

schillings and to protect the United States, the Austrian Government

agrees to repurchase from the United States Government upon presen-

tation such schillings at a price not less favorable than the price the

United States was required to pay for same. Such purchases by the United States will be made from the National Bank of Austria.
15. This English text in 4 pages, including this one, is agreed upon as the official language of this agreement, but a translation into German will be made.

Official language of Agreement .

95347°-50-- PT. IV- -53

4174

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
In witness whereof the parties hereto by their duly authorized representatives hereunto subscribe their names at Vienna, Austria, this 21st day of June, anno domini one thousand nine hundred and fortyseven.
FOR THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF AUSTRIA FIGL LEOPOLD.
Bundeskanzler für Oesterreich. [ ¹ ]
FOR THE UNITED STATES FORCES IN AUSTRIA GEOFFREY KEYES Geoffrey Keyes
Lieutenant General, USA Commanding U.S. Forces in Austria
¹ [Translation: Chancellor for the Federal Government of Austria. ]

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946

4175

Agreements between the United States of America and France respecting a mutual aid settlement. Signed at Washington May 28, 1946; entered into force May 28, 1946. And a declaration made in Paris by the President of the Provisional Government of the French Republic and in Washington by the President of the United States on May 28, 1946.

May 28, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1928]

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC REGARDING SETTLEMENT FOR LEND-LEASE, RECIPROCAL AID, SURPLUS WAR PROPERTY, AND CLAIMS

1. The Government of the United States of America and the Pro-

visional Government of the French Republic have reached an understanding for the final settlement of lend -lease and reciprocal aid , and of the French obligation to the United States Government under the military supply program (Plan A) ; the acquisition by the French Government of certain United States Army and Navy surplus prop-

erty, including installations, located in France and certain French overseas territories, and for the final settlement of other financial

claims of each Government against the other arising out of the conduct

of the war. In arriving at this understanding both Governments have recognized the considerations expressed in Article VII of their Preliminary Agreement of February 28, 1945 , on the principles applying to mutual aid, as well as the benefits accruing to each from the contributions of both to the defeat of their common enemies. In the

59 Stat. 1306.

light of the foregoing, both Governments agree that no further bene-

fits will be sought as consideration for lend-lease and reciprocal aid.

2. The net amount due from the French Government to the United

Net amount due from French Govern.

States Government for the foregoing, including all indebtedness aris- mePnots.t, p. 4184. ing from provisions of the lend-lease and reciprocal aid agreements

of February 28, 1945, is $ 720,000,000, made up in part of amounts now agreed upon and in part of estimated amounts subject to revision .

The latter, for which the best available figures have been used pending their final determination by agreed accounting procedures, represent

in the main transfers after September 1 , 1945. 3. The French Government will pay interest on the net amount due
to the United States Government from July 1 , 1946, at the rate of two

Payments.

percent per annum. Such interest payments will be made annually on the first day of July of each of the years 1947 to 1950, inclusive. Be-

ginning on July 1 , 1951 , interest and principal will be paid in thirty ( 30 ) equal annual installments. Each installment shall consist of the full amount of the interest due for the year preceding the July 1

on which the payment is made, and the remainder of the installment

4176

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

shall be the principal due in that year. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the French Government from anticipating the pay-

ment of any of such installments, or of any part thereof. If, by agreement of both Governments, it is determined that because of

extraordinary and adverse economic conditions arising during the course of payment, the payment of any installment would not be in the

joint interest of both Governments, payment may be postponed for an agreed upon period.
To the extent that the terms of payment provided in this paragraph 3 are inconsistent with those contained in previous agreements, the

U. S. troop pay and procurement.
Transfer of property and francs to U. S. Government.

provisions of this paragraph shall prevail. 4. The two Governments have agreed upon arrangements and pro-
cedures for the settlement of past and future troop pay and procurement of United States Armed Forces in France and French overseas territories .
5. As and when requested by the United States Government from time to time prior to January 1 , 1950, the French Government will transfer to the United States Government real property to be mutually

agreed upon and not to exceed a total dollar value of $ 15,000,000 . In addition, the French Government will provide, at the request of the United States Government, francs representing an aggregate dollar value not in excess of $10,000,000. Any francs so transferred will be

furnished at the exchange rate established in conformity with procedures of the International Monetary Fund, or if no such rate exists, at the rate used in official French Government transactions at the time of such transfer. The United States Government will use francs so

transferred exclusively to acquire or improve real property for United States Government use or to carry out educational programs agreed between the two Governments.

Transfers made in accordance with this paragraph 5 will be credited

Settlement ofclaims.

first to interest then due and then to installments of principal in direct order of maturity.
6. The two Governments have also agreed upon the following :

a ) All claims and financial obligations between the two Governments arising out of the acquisition , operation, disposition or loss of French vessels and cargoes of such vessels while under United States control will be settled by the United States for $ 17,500,000 in accordance with the provisions of an agreement relating to the purchase by France of up to 75 Liberty ships.
b) Both Governments express their intention of entering into a maritime claims agreement, providing for the mutual waiver of intergovernmental claims arising from maritime accidents, and for the handling by each Government of claims asserted in its courts by its nationals against the other Government and based on maritime accidents occurring prior to November 1 , 1945 .
c) As part of the general settlement, the French Government has agreed to process and pay all unpaid claims of French residents

61 STAT. ] FRANCE -MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAY 28, 1946

4177

against the United States Government arising out of the use or in-

fringement in war production of patent rights held by them, out of the requisitioning by the United States Government for use in the war program of any property interest owned by French residents , and out of acts or omissions prior to July 1, 1946, in France or French overseas territories of members of the United States Armed

Forces or civilian personnel attached to such Forces. d) During the course of the negotiations both Governments have
reached agreement on the disposition of certain specific claims of one Government against the other. All other financial claims of either Government against the other, except where liability has

heretofore been acknowledged and the method of computation agreed , which ( 1 ) arose out of lend -lease or reciprocal aid , or ( 2) otherwise arose on or after September 3, 1939 , and prior to September 2, 1945, out of or incidental to the conduct of the war, not

otherwise dealt with in this Memorandum of Understanding, are hereby waived.

e) Appropriate non-discriminatory treatment will be extended by the French Government to United States nationals in the use and

disposition of installations in the building of which there has been a United States Government contribution and which are transferred under this settlement.

f) The United States Government reserves its right of recapture of any lend-lease articles held by the French Armed Forces, except petroleum products and an agreed list of non-combat aircraft. The United States Government has indicated that it does not intend to exercise generally this right of recapture, except that vessels of the United States Navy and lend -lease merchant vessels are to be returned to the United States Government unless otherwise agreed.
g) Disposals for military use to forces other than the French Armed Forces of lend-lease articles held on September 2, 1945, or received thereafter by the French Armed Forces, and disposals for civilian use other than in France and French overseas territories

Post, p. 4195.

of such lend-lease articles, will be made only with the consent of the United States Government and any net proceeds will be paid to the United States Government. The French Government will not, except to a very limited extent, release for civilian use in, or export from , France and French overseas territories lend-lease articles held by the French Armed Forces.
h) Except as otherwise provided in this Memorandum of Under- anTditrleecitporolcaelndai-ldeaasre standing, the French Government and the United States Government ticles. receive full title to lend-lease and reciprocal aid articles respectively

held as of September 2 , 1945, or transferred thereafter. If any United States surplus installation not transferred under this Memorandum of Understanding contains a lend-lease interest, such lendlease interest is retained by the United States.

4178 Post, p. 4215.
Effective date. Authentic texts.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
i) The United States Government will undertake to make available to the French Government part of the United States Government's share of captured German and Japanese surface naval vessels when such vessels become excess to United States needs and are no longer needed for any task connected with the implementation of the German and Japanese surrenders. 7. The two Governments agree to conclude such specific agreements as may be necessary to implement this general understanding. 8. This Memorandum of Understanding will be effective upon signature, and instruments of ratification will be exchanged [ 1 ] as soon as possible. DONE AT WASHINGTON, in duplicate, in the English and French languages, both texts being equally authentic, this 28th day of May, 1946.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA JAMES F BYRNES

FOR THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC LÉON BLUM
1 [Oct. 30, 1947. ]

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946
AGREEMENT RELATING TO THE TRANSFER OF SURPLUS UNITED STATES ARMY AND NAVY PROPERTY AND INSTALLATIONS IN FRANCE AND CERTAIN FRENCH OVERSEAS TERRITORIES

4179

In accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding regarding settlement for lend-lease, reciprocal aid, surplus war property and
claims, dated May 28, 1946, and in partial consideration of the payment to be made thereunder by the Provisional Government of the French Republic to the Government of the United States, the two Governments have reached agreement for the transfer to the French Government of certain property which is surplus to the needs of the United States Armed Forces. This agreement has been made on the basis of the mutual advantages to be derived therefrom and in the expectation that the property transferable hereunder will provide substantial benefits to the French civilian economy.

Ante, p. 4175.

1. The two Governments have agreed that the French Government

Acquisition by French Government

shall acquire possession of and title to the following property on the opfrotpietlretyt.o designated terms and conditions set forth below :

a) All moveable articles of whatever description, except as set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 below, located in France and French North and West Africa which had been on May 25 , 1946 , or are thereafter declared to the Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner, United States Department of State, as surplus to the needs and responsibilities of the United States War and Navy Departments.
b) All interests of the United States War and Navy Departments in installations (which term includes structures or capital assemblies affixed to land or buildings in a permanent manner) located in France and French North and West Africa where such interests have been or are hereafter declared to the Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner as surplus to the needs and responsibilities of the War and Navy Departments.
c) All interests of the United States War and Navy Departments in certain items and installations, located at Noumea, New Caledonia, as listed by the representatives of the French Government in their Aide Memoire on the subject of the French Pacific Institute.
2. Specifically excepted from the property to be transferred under this agreement are the following :

Exceptions.

a) Non-demilitarized combat material, including ammunition.

b) Property located in France and French North and West Africa and under contract or commitment for sale from the Govern-

ment of the United States to purchasers other than the French Government. Property shall be considered under contract or commitment for the purposes of this agreement if, prior to 12:00

Limitation of time for contract or com-
mitment.

4180

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

noon, Paris time, May 25, 1946 , the Central Field Commis-

sioners, Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner, in Paris

and in Cairo, had accepted a bid therefor or had arrived at a

written or oral understanding which they regard as firm.

Transfer of air navigation facilities, etc.

3. Air navigation, Communication and Weather facilities installed

in France and French Overseas territories will be transferred to the

U. S. owned locomotives, etc.

French Government under this agreement, subject to certain conditions to be covered by a separate agreement.
4. In view of the current transportation situation in Europe, the

greater part of United States owned locomotives and rolling stock

in Europe have not yet been declared surplus, and it is not possible

at this time to anticipate the date of such declaration. However, when

such material is declared surplus, it is the intention of the Govern-

ment of the U.S. to make available to the French Government, at

prices to be mutually agreed , such quantities as may be allocated to

France by the European Central Inland Transport Organization.

Property purchased from Office of Foreign

5. All property heretofore purchased by the French Government

Lsioqnueird.ation Commis- from the Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner, which had

not been paid for as of May 25, 1946, is covered by this agreement and

Custodial responsibility for designated property.

payment therefor is included in the amount to be paid by the French Government under the Memorandum of Understanding.
6. Title to and custodial responsibility for the property described in Paragraph 1 hereof shall pass to the French Government as soon as

possible, in accordance with transfer procedures to be agreed between representatives of the Government of the United States and the

French Government. The French Government is prepared to accept

custodial responsibility promptly, and will arrange to relieve United

Use of property by U. S. Army or Navy.

States personnel of this responsibility at the earliest possible date. 7. The French Government agrees that the procedure for the acqui-
sition of the property described in paragraph 1 hereof will not operate

to prevent the United States Army or Navy from consuming or con-

Post, p. 4182.

tinuing to use such property, prior to its turnover under this agreement, in connection with their respective needs and responsibilities.

The two Governments agree, however, that if, for any reason, the consumption or use of such property by the United States Army or

Navy is materially greater than that reasonably contemplated at the time of the execution of this agreement, so as unduly to reduce the quantity of the property transferred to the French Government here-

under, the two Governments will consult together to fix an appropriate

adjustment in the price to be paid therefor.

Nonimportation of property into U. S.

8. The French Government will use its best endeavors to insure

that property transferred pursuant to this agreement shall not be

imported into the United States in the same or substantially the same form, if such property was originally produced in the United States

and is readily identifiable as such, unless such property is to be imported into the United States on consignment to a person or firm in

the United States for the purpose of reconditioning for re- export, or by a member of the United States Armed Forces for his personal use.

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAY 28, 1946

4181

Nondiscrimination 9. The French Government, when it disposes of or distributes in distribution of prop-
property pursuant to this agreement , will use its best endeavors to erty.

avoid discrimination against the legitimate interests of the United States manufacturers of such property, or their agents or distributors. Members and veterans of the United States Armed Forces, United

States Government Agencies, United States citizens and non-profit

institutions, and UNRRA and the International Red Cross will be ac-

corded an opportunity to buy the property transferred under this

agreement on the same basis and at the same priority as accorded to

other buyers of like character. 10. To the extent that the property transferred to the French Gov-
ernment under this agreement does not include the items listed in the

Availability ofitems not included under
agreement.

"French Purchasing Program of United States Army Surplus" submitted to the Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner by the French Council of Allied Surplus on May 7, 1946, and subsequently amended , it is understood that the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner will use his best efforts to make such items available to the French Gov-

ernment from surplus property located outside France and French

North and West Africa at prices to be mutually agreed. The Foreign

Liquidation Commissioner will also use his best efforts to arrange for

the transportation of such property to France, the cost thereof to be

borne by the French Government. If the property is transported in

United States Government owned carriers , the charge for such trans-

portation will be mutually agreed in advance. 11. Floating equipment acquired under this agreement, with the
exception of that listed in the Program referred to in Paragraph 10

Distribution offloating equipment.

above shall be distributed by the French Government in accordance

with ECITO recommendations at prices not to exceed 50 per cent of

original cost to the United States.

12. U. S. Army or Navy surplus property located in foreign areas hereafter sold by the United States to the French Government under the provisions of paragraphs 4 or 10 hereof or otherwise will be sold on the same credit terms and conditions as those set forth in the Memorandum of Understanding.

Ante, p. 4175.

Authentic texts. DONE AT WASHINGTON, in duplicate, in the French and English

languages, both texts being authentic , this 28th day of May, 1946.

FOR THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC H BONNET

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA THOMAS B. MCCABE

4182 Ante, p. 4179.
Ante, p. 4180.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The American Foreign Liquidation Commissioner to the French Ambassador [ 1]

OFFICE OF FOREIGN LIQUIDATION COMMISSIONER.

Room 520 1818 H Street N.W.

MAY 29, 1946

DEAR MONSIEUR BLUM :

Referring to the Agreement dated 28 May 1946, relating to the sale

to your Government of United States Army and Navy surplus, this

will confirm to you that the latest estimates which we have received

from the Army with respect to the surplus property to be transferred

under the agreement are as follows ( at original cost) :

"SUR-

"SURPLUS

PLUS TO

DECLARED"

BE DE-

CLARED

(in millions of dollars) FRENCH

FRANCE NORTH & FRANCE WEST

AFRICA

Army Service Forces Moveable Goods
Army Air Forces Moveable Goods
Fixed Installations

749

25

469

17

24

·

98

21

95

25 2223

Total TOTAL .. Estimated commitments .

864

70

564

1498 100

GRAND TOTAL ·

1398

For your further information, attached hereto as Schedule "A " through "C" [2 ] is a further breakdown of the above schedule .
As was pointed out to you during the negotiations, it is estimated that property representing an original cost of approximately $100,000,000 is already committed for sale to various purchasers, including France.

Of the following items, to which you have indicated that you attach

unusual importance, the current Army estimates are :

Class 34-Machine tools and sets Class 67-Clothing . Class 68-Footwear · Class 69-Blankets// · ·

30 millions 66 millions 9 millions 0.5 millions

In paragraph 7 of the Agreement, provision has been made for the continued use by the United States Army and Navy of property in France prior to its turnover under this Agreement. This provision is not intended to cover unusual or abnormal use or consumption. If for any reason, the use or consumption is materially greater than that now contemplated , it is envisaged that an appropriate adjustment

[No French language text. ] [Not printed . ]

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946

4183

will be made in the amount to be paid by the French Government under the Agreement. It is not intended , however, that this provision will necessitate adjustment in the case of a minor excess or deficiency, which is to be expected in dealing with estimates of this magnitude.
We have taken note of the items listed in the "French Purchasing Program of United States Army Surplus" submitted to the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner by the French Council of Allied Surplus on May 7, 1946, and subsequently amended, ( Schedule "D") . To the extent that these items are not transferred under the Agreement, the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner will use his best efforts to make such items available from surplus stocks in other parts of the world. These items will be made available at 20% of original cost. The Foreign Liquidation Commissioner will also use his best efforts to arrange for the transportation of such property to France, the cost thereof to be borne by the French Government.
It is also the intention of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner to make available to the French Government such of its requirements for locomotives and rolling stoc, as may be available from surplus property and as may be allocated to France by the ECITO. These sales are not, however, covered by the understanding set forth in the preceding paragraph for the sale of certain items at 20 % of original cost.
The Memorandum of Agreement provides for the termination of sales as of noon, Paris time, May 25, 1946. For your convenience, we will be glad to request Mr. Virden to communicate to the Conseil des Surplus information as to the property covered by contracts or commitments prior to that time.
Sincerely yours, THOMAS B. MCCABE Commissioner
Enclosures : Schedules "A" through "D" [¹]
The Honorable LEON BLUM Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Provisional Government of the French Republic French Embassy.

Ante, p. 4179.

" [Not printed . ]

4184 Ante, p. 4175.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SUMMARY STATEMENT SHOWING DETERMINATION OF THE NET AMOUNT STATED AS DUE FROM THE FRENCH GOVERNMENT TO THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT UNDER PARAGRAPH 2 OF THE MEMORANDUM OF
UNDERSTANDING DATED MAY 28, 1946. (In millions ofdollars)
I. Items accruing under previous cash reimburs-

able arrangements Crowley-Monnet Modus-Vivendi Colonies Civilian retransfers from U.K.
II. VJ day inventories - Metropolitan France - Military POL and transport aircraft

23, 00 125.00
5. 00 1. 00
50.00
11. 48

154. 00

61.48

III. Transfers under 3 (c) Agreement
Post VJ day transfers Schedules I and II (including ocean freight) --
Billings to April 30, 1946 Estimated balance Pre VJ day transfers Schedule II

173. 79 226. 00*
5. 24
405. 03

IV. Other post- VJ day transfers Navy pipeline, FEA field transfers, and Army-Navy transfers not specified by the U.S. as straight lend-lease
Less - Credit on account of payments by France to date -Allowance on account of shipping claims Net balance of other claims after appropriate offsetting

232. 21 17.50 30. 80

80.00* 700. 51
280. 51

Balance payable by France

420.00

*Note 1: All figures on this sheet are agreed as final excepting only the starred figures of $226.00 million and $80.00 million, which represent the best present estimates to be revised as additional reports are received. Note 2: As part ofthe settlement, the U.S. will transfer, in accordance withan agreement on shipping claims, $17.50 million to the U.S. Maritime Commission on account of the purchase price of up to 75 Liberty ships

by the French. Note 3: The above figures do not reflect any amount owing by the French on account of the purchase of
surplus property and installations.

HENRY R. LABOUISSE Jr Initialed on behalf of the United States Government

WASHINGTON, D. C. May 28, 1946.

CHRISTIAN VALENSI Initialed on behalf of the French Government

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946

4185

UNITED STATES - FRENCH WAR SETTLEMENT COMMITTEE AGREED COMBINED STATEMENT WITH RESPECT TO CLAIMS
The claims presented by the two Governments have been considered posAigtrieoendopfocilnatismosn. disby a combined subcommittee on claims, whose report has been reviewed by the Combined War Settlement Committee. The claims described below are finally disposed of as indicated . The following points are also agreed to :
1. The formula for settlement of certain claims represents concessions on both sides from customary operating policies, which concessions are made only in the context of a generally satisfactory settlement of all war accounts.
2. Certain claims relating to the Modus Vivendi account are not reflected in the summary of claims attached hereto, as it is assumed that a broad adjustment of those accounts will be made.
3. The Memorandum of Understanding will contain provisions concerning waiver of claims not dealt with herein.

FRENCH CLAIMS

1. Military Aid in North Africa. The Modus Vivendi of September 25, 1943, provided that military aid for French North and West 59 Stat. 1666
Africa would be provided on a straight lend -lease basis, that the French would pay for civilian supplies, and that the distinction between the two would be made by agreement. The French claim that of approximately $373.8 million billed or to be billed as civilian supplies, $40.8 million were in fact applied to direct or indirect military use and should be treated as straight lend - lease under the terms of the Modus Vivendi. The U.S. side has in general accepted the calculations presented by the French, but believes that the items of $2.8 million for supplies in West Africa and approximately $5.5 million for supplies shipped after March 1 , 1945 , represent excessive allowances for military aid. The French claim is reduced by $1.4 million of automotive equipment for West Africa and by $1.5 million representing supplies shipped after July 1 , 1945, and the claim allowed at $37.9 million, to be deducted from the Modus Vivendi account and added to the military lend-lease account.
2. Prisoner of War Packages. Supplies, consisting chiefly of food, were requisitioned by the French under the Modus Vivendi for delivery through the International Red Cross to French prisoners of war. The French contend that these deliveries should be considered as military aid and treated as straight lend -lease, and state that in fact $11 million were never received by them. The French claim of $25 million is allowed and the Modus Vivendi account will be reduced by this sum, to be added to the military lend-lease account.
3. Monnet- Crowley Adjustment. Certain goods requisitioned for French North Africa under the Modus Vivendi were actually shipped to Metropolitan France in June 1945, during the period of straight lend-lease to that area. The French claim that these items should be

4186

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
charged to straight lend-lease instead of to the Crowley- Monnet account. This claim is allowed in the sum of $0.4 million.
4. Freight on Off-shore Goods. During the period of straight lendlease to Metropolitan France, the French purchased for cash outside the United States goods which were transported to France on U.S. owned or controlled vessels, and are asked to pay the ocean freight in cash. The French request that these ocean freight charges be changed to a straight lend-lease basis. The U.S. side points out that ocean freight charges on goods not acquired under lend-lease have, as an operating matter, been furnished on a lend -lease basis infrequently and only under special circumstances. However, in view of the fact that the goods in question would have been eligible to lend-lease if acquired in the United States, and in view of the fact that French vessels being under the control of the U.S. or U.K. were not available to carry these goods, it is considered appropriate, as an incident of a general settlement, to allow this claim at $4 million to be reflected in net claims balance.
5. Miscellaneous Freights. The French have been billed cash for ocean freight in certain cases where they believe that the freight should have been furnished as straight lend -lease or on 3 ( c) terms. WSA reports that the items eligible for straight lend-lease have been refunded to the French out of lend-lease funds and that the items chargeable on a 3 ( c) basis will be so treated as an accounting matter so that they need not be considered as claims. The French have accordingly withdrawn this claim.
6. Coal. By agreement dated 25 August 1944, it was established that coal procured by the U. S. Military in Metropolitan France would not be furnished by the French as reciprocal aid, but would be replaced in kind or paid for by the United States. A study has been made of the transactions, and it is agreed that U.S. withdrawals up to VJ Day exceed by 150,000 tons replacement up to 31 December 1945. France requests settlement at $20 per ton, the approximate landed cost of coal actually purchased for cash by France in the United States to meet French coal deficiencies. The claim is allowed, to be settled by payment on the same basis as other pre-VJ Day procurement ineligible as reciprocal aid.
7. Other Short Supply Goods. The French have withdrawn this claim .
8. Price of Cotton. For cotton furnished on a cash reimbursable basis and on 3( c) credit, France has been billed the domestic price. France requests that the lower export price be used, and the U.S. side agrees to the principle. The claim is allowed. The CrowleyMonnet account should be reduced by $1.4 million and the 3 ( c ) account by $ 11.2 million, to reflect the appropriate adjustment for cotton furnished on that basis. It is understood that this principle has been borne in mind in pricing cotton in inventory.
9. Price of Sugar. Similarly, France requests certain allowances for processing taxes and for drawback of customs duties on sugar exported to France and to French North Africa. These are cus-

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAY 28, 1946

tomarily arranged for on peacetime commercial exports, but the administrative requirements could not be complied with in the case of these shipments, and the allowances are therefore not reflected in the

present billings. The claim is allowed ; the Modus Vivendi account

should be reduced by $7.4 million and the 3 ( c ) account by $0.1 million. 10. Price of Locomotives. Seven hundred locomotives were trans-

ferred to France under Schedule II of the 3 (c) Agreement, and are

billed at a price of approximately $ 120,700 each, f.a.s. New York. The French contended that this charge was excessive, as they had

purchased substantially similar locomotives privately for $ 110,500

each, f.o.b. plant. The U.S. side explained the computation of the charge, as follows ( in approximate figures) :

Cost of locomotives under War Department Contract Army Transportation Corps charge for services, inspec-
tion, etc. (5 % ) - War Department charge for handling, inland freight,
etc. (10% ) -

$110,000 5,500
11, 550

Less 5% discount under 3 ( c) Agreement -

127,050 6, 350

Price billed to French-

$120, 700

The U.S. side further stated that the War Department charges of 5 and 10 percent were specifically imposed by War Department regulation. Upon this explanation , the French withdrew this claim.
11. Excise Taxes. There have been transferred to France, on cash

reimbursement and on credit terms, goods subject to U.S. excise tax on domestic sales. These excise taxes are not payable on sales for export, but it was administratively impossible to follow the procedure

prescribed by Treasury Department regulations for establishing the

exemptions. However, as the fact of export is undisputed , France has requested that the excise tax be eliminated where it appears on the face of the invoice. The claim appears just in principle and the U.S. and French figures are in substantial agreement. The claim is approved for deduction of $0.13 million from Modus Vivendi account and $0.37 million from 3 (c) account.

12. Petroleum Billing Procedure in North Africa. Petroleum delivered to the French in North Africa up to the middle of 1943 was billed on the basis of proceeds of sale. It was contemplated that after June 30 , 1943, billings would be based on landed cost, and this was

in fact done for products other than petroleum. However, petroleum has been billed on a proceeds- of- sale basis until September 30 , 1943. The French contend that the three-month extension of this procedure

for petroleum alone is without present justification , and claim $1.2 million as the difference in cost to them under the two methods. The

claim is allowed at $1.2 million, to be deducted from Modus Vivendi and charged to straight lend-lease.
13. Price of Petroleum in North Africa . The French claim that

the prices billed them for petroleum in North Africa from October 1 , 1943, were well above current world prices. Explanation of the prices

4187

4188

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

charged has been given to the French by the Army-Navy Petroleum Board, showing that these were actual landed cost prices. The French have accordingly withdrawn this claim .
14. French Petroleum Deliveries to the North African Pool. 93,000 tons of French-owned petroleum were contributed to the North African pool through the British . The French claim derives from that of a private French company against which France will agree to indemnify the United States. The French felt that petroleum is a product in such short supply in French territory as not to be a subject of reciprocal aid, and they therefore claim for the full value of these petroleum deliveries. The U.S. side maintained that in view of the large volume of petroleum products furnished by the United States to France on a straight lend -lease basis, the United States should not be required to pay for the comparatively small amount of petroleum furnished to the pool by France, and that France's contributions to the pool must be treated in the same way as those of other members. The U.S. side therefore believed the French contribution should be

considered as applied first against French military withdrawals, which considerably exceeded the tonnage of petroleum put into the pool by France. The claim was withdrawn.
15. Price of Rubber. It is agreed that the price charged to the French should be the same as that paid by the United States, subject to adjustment for accrued charges, etc. The U.S. side states that necessary revisions will be made as a routine accounting matter.
16. Missing or Damaged Goods. France has abandoned this claim. 17. Cost of Procurement. France has waived its claim for reduction

Coal procured under "Q" requisitions.

of the 15% accessorial charge (to cover inland transportation, handling, etc. ) on cash reimbursable and 3 ( c) goods.
However, with respect to coal procured under "Q" requisitions, the U.S. procuring agency requests reimbursement for actual expenses instead of adding 15 % to the purchase price. The French point out that the 15 % charge is an average designed to cover the overall procuring expenses on a group of commodities. If therefore actual cost

of services is to be the rule for coal , the same rule should apply for all other commodities procured under "Q" requisition.
The U. S. side replies that 15 % is clearly inadequate to cover accessorial charges in the case of coal and that coal constitutes $23 million of $62 million of "Q" requisitions. Application of the 15% rule could therefore result in a loss to the United States which no appropriations are available to cover. On the other hand a com-

plete departure from such rule would create a precedent which would have to be extended to other countries and would greatly disturb the accounting procedure followed by the U. S. procuring agency.
While it seems that technically the accessorial charge should be consistent throughout, the French side recognizes the problem facing

the American administration. Upon the request of the U. S. side, France has consented to withdraw this claim .

18. Petroleum delivered to Metropolitan France for Civilian Use from February 28 to September 2, 1945. The French request that

61 STAT.] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAY 28, 1946

4189

such of the petroleum delivered by the combined military supply agencies as was derived from U. S. sources be considered as delivered under the lend - lease agreement of February 28, 1945 , rather than under Plan A. The French state that there was no Plan A target program for petroleum and that there was a substantial petroleum program under Schedule I of the lend-lease agreement, which would not be met unless this claim is allowed. The U. S. side replies that in fact these deliveries were made and have been recorded as Plan A
deliveries under tripartite supply arrangements under which Great Britain and Canada also have rights. In the light of a satisfactory general settlement of Plan A, France withdraws the claim.
19. North African Petroleum Stockpile - November 1942. This French claim for compensation for petroleum taken over by the U. S. military at the time of the landings in 1942 is based on the same contention noted under 14 above, that petroleum is not a subject of reciprocal aid by France. The U. S. position is also the same, that the U. S. cannot pay the French for this stockpile when the U. S. has since that date furnished very much larger amounts of petroleum to the French on a straight lend-lease basis. France has withdrawn the claim .
U. S. CLAIMS

59 Stat. 1304. 59 Stat. 1309.

1. Maritime Claims (Knock-for-Knock) . The United States has requested the French to enter into an agreement providing for mutual waiver of intergovernmental claims arising from maritime accidents, and for the handling by each country on a lend-lease and reverse lend -lease basis of claims asserted in its courts by its nationals against the other country. France consents to this principle. The draft of the agreement is still under consideration of both Governments. It is recommended that the agreement be completed and signed as soon as possible, and that, if this cannot be done before a general settlement, the general settlement contain a statement of intention to enter into an agreement covering the lend-lease period .
2. (a) Tort Claims. The United States has requested France to assume processing and payment of all presently unpaid claims against the United States, arising out of acts or omissions in France or French overseas territories of members of the United States Armed Forces or civilian personnel attached to such forces, including not only lineof-duty claims, but also off- duty claims of types previously handled by the United States. No claim is made with respect to such claims already paid by the United States. France agrees to assume this obligation as regards items arising from incidents prior to July 1, 1946.
(b) Patents. The United States War and Navy Departments have incurred obligations for patent royalties and possible infringement liabilities to French residents on United States patents used in war production, and France has been requested to assume this liability as a matter of reciprocal aid. France agrees to assume this obligation.
(c) Requisitioned Property. The United States requisitioned, for use in the war program, property located in the United States and
95347°-50-PT. IV- 54

4190

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
in which French residents had interests, thus incurring liability for payment of the fair value of the property interests requisitioned . France agrees to assume this liability.
(d ) Information necessary to the processing of claims assumed by the French Government under this paragraph 2 will be furnished by the United States Government to the French Government on its request .
(e) France also agrees to waive all claims against the United States that the French Government may have with respect to matters described in this paragraph 2.
(f) In the net claims adjustment, an allowance will be made to France in the amount of $15 million in consideration of such of the obligations assumed by France under this paragraph 2 as are not the subject of reciprocal aid.
3. Charter Hire. Recommendations on this subject have been made by a separate combined Shipping Group.
4. Sugar Barter Agreement. The so-called "Sugar Agreement No. 2", dated August 1 , 1944, between FEA, the French Supply Council, and Commodity Credit Corporation , provided that during the period August 1-December 31 , 1944, CCC would furnish approved quantities of refined sugar to the French, would charge FEA's account for refined sugar furnished , and would report to FEA the quantities furnished, for settlement between FEA and the French under cash reimbursement lend-lease. On their side, the French undertook to furnish to CCC 107 pounds of raw sugar from Martinique and Guadaloupe for every 100 pounds of refined sugar furnished to the French, the value of this to be credited against shipments of refined sugar. In fact, the French failed to meet their commitment to the extent of 62,000 tons of raw sugar, and have advised the United States that they will not make such deliveries. CCC has purchased this amount of raw sugar in Cuba, at the higher Cuban price, resulting in an additional cost to CCC of $669,884.07. CCC has charged this sum to FEA account.
The United States claims that France is liable for this amount as consequential damages resulting from the failure of France to deliver raw sugar in accordance with the agreement. It is recommended that the claim be approved.
5. Diversions. The United States has requested France to include in the general settlement an allowance to cover claims arising out of retransfers or diversions of lend -lease articles by France, occurring in France and French overseas territories during the period from March 11, 1941 , to September 1 , 1945 , inclusive , or out of exports during that period, for which the United States would be entitled to reimbursement. The claim is allowed at $1 million.
6. Price Clause Revision. Under the 3 ( c) Agreement France is entitled to a 5% reduction from the contract price of articles transferred . The original purpose of this provision was to give France the benefit of contract renegotiation recoveries by the United States procuring agencies. It is now believed that recoveries on contract

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946

renegotiation average well under 5%. The United States has considered requesting a revision of the 3 ( c ) Agreement to reflect this fact, but has withdrawn the claim in view of the French abandonment of their request to reduce the item of accessorial charges.
7. Ballast from North Africa. U. S. vessels carrying goods to North Africa returned in ballast furnished from French sources. Upon arrival in the United States the ballast was sometimes dumped and sometimes sold. The United States submits that this ballast should
be regarded as reciprocal aid. The claim is allowed by France.

FOR THE UNITED STATES SIDE HENRY R. LABOUISSE JR

FOR THE FRENCH SIDE CHRISTIAN VALENSI

MAY 28, 1946

4191

4192

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SUMMARY - U. S. - FRENCH CLAIMS

Millions of Dollars

1. Claims Approved - to be charged to Military Lend-Lease

FRANCE : Military Aid in North Africa POW Packages

37.9 25.0

2. Claims Approved - to be paid as Military Procurement

FRANCE : Coal

3.0

3. Claims Approved -to be reflected in net claims balance

FRANCE : Crowley- Monnet Adjustment Freight on Off-Shore Goods Price of Cotton Price of Sugar Excise Taxes

0.4 4.0 12. 6 0. 1 0.37

Allowance on account of U.S. Tort, Patent and

Requisitioned Property Claims not eligible for

reciprocal aid

15. 0

U.S.: Sugar Barter Agreement Diversions

.67 1. 0

32. 47 1.67

Net claims adjustment in favor of France 4. Claims Agreed to in Principle

U.S.: Maritime Claims (Knock-for-Knock) Tort Claims

Patents, Requisitioned Property Ballast from North Africa 5. Claims Withdrawn

FRANCE : Miscellaneous freights

Short supply goods - other than coal Price of Locomotives Price of Petroleum - North Africa French Petroleum deliveries to North African Pool

Missing or Damaged Goods Cost of Procurement

Civilian Petroleum to Metropolitan France - February-September, 1945
North African Petroleum Stockpile - November, 1942

U.S.:

Price Clause Revision

30.80
CHR V. HL

61 STAT.] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946

4193

Aide-Mémoire on the subject of Plan A [¹]

AIDE-MÉMOIRE
In the course of the discussions between the representatives of your
government and of the United States Government with regard to the settlement of war accounts between the two governments , consideration has been given to the possible methods of settlement for the United States share of the combined bills for civilian supplies furnished by the combined armies of the Allies for the civilian population of France. The Secretary of State informs His Excellency the Ambassador of the French Republic that, as a result of these discussions, the United States Government has decided that the most satisfactory method of accomplishing settlement for the United States share of the total combined bills being presented to the French Government would be to waive the United States share of the combined bills in connection with the overall settlement of war accounts between the United States and French Governments.
Since the Government of the United States has been committed by
written agreements to participate on a combined basis with the United Kingdom and Canadian Governments in the collection of the total bill for these supplies and in the determination of the relative shares of each in the proceeds, it is necessary for this Government to stipulate the following prior conditions to effecting a waiver of the United States share of the combined bills :
That the French Government recognize that the settlement to be made with the United States Government in no way impairs the validity of the obligation of the French Government to the United Kingdom and Canadian Governments for their shares of the combined bills.
That the French Government currently establish a reserve of 10 percent of the combined bills at the time such bills are submitted, such reserve to be deducted from the United States share, and to be held in the name of the French Government in the Bank of France in funds convertible into sterling or Canadian dollars, or both, at rates to be agreed upon by the Government of France with the United Kingdom and Canadian Governments. This reserve will be payable to the United Kingdom and Canadian Governments to the extent and in such proportions of sterling and Canadian dollars as the United States, United Kingdom, and Canadian Governments may determine by combined agreement to be necessary in order to comply with the existing financial arrangements among the three supplying governments. Such remaining amounts of the reserve not so paid will revert to the free disposition of the French Government upon combined notification by the United States, United Kingdom, and Canadian Governments.

waiverofU U.Ss.share Conditions.

Upon notification by the French Government of their acceptance of the above-stated conditions, the United States Government will effect

1 [No French language text. ]

4194

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
a waiver of its share of the combined bills in connection with the overall settlement of war accounts between the United States and French Governments .
In identic notes to your government dated April 10, 1946, the Governments of the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada specified the proportions of the currencies in which payments were to be made for the bills presented to the French Government through December 31 , 1945. The notes of April 10, 1946 will be superseded by a notification to the French Government by the three supplying governments of the amount of your government's obligation to the Governments of the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada.
WLT DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, May 24, 1946

Ante, p. 4175.

Memorandum on the subject of Plan A [¹]

MEMORANDUM

MAY 28, 1946

In connection with the waiver by the United States Government of its claim against the French Government for supplies furnished under Plan A, as contemplated in the Memorandum of Understanding between the French Government and the Government of the United States to be signed this date, it is necessary for the Government of the United States to stipulate that this waiver is conditional upon the fulfillment of the provisions of the Aide Mémoire on the subject of Plan A transmitted by the Government of the United States to the French Government under date of May 24, 1946.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

W. L. C.

Washington,

[No French language text. ]

Item PBY5A .4C- 7B C-60A C-45F ·
U-78C ·
B-13TB L-4
1-R830-90C R-1820-87
A&3-9R8N51 R-755
Item C-47B C-60A C-45F
U-78C L-4
1B-3T PBY5A
F: ORRANCE CVHARLIESNTSIAN
HRLJr.AEBNORUYISSE W,M2198Aa4Sy6HINGTON
1L,p.41A7n7t.Je

Quantity 19 50 2 25 67 25 123 17 2 26 98
CPEorasoctchurement Inventory 0x9,$080 50 1x25,000 2 6x5,000 25 3,0x500 67 2,4x50 123 2x,4300 25 2x20,000 19

NEF.S-U.ECRGOEONNTOCIMHAITCIONS

1oU[¹]M2,dfna98atd4ye6drstanding

PRANCLoM6(f)ti- ionefagoesrfrmnmtceaebrorgeaarrrdfteatdpnhdum

FSParLliecCse e.$2,0a600 2,0e. 0a0 e.2,0a050 2,0e. 5a00 e2. a,000 .e45a0 .e50a0 e.1,3a00 3e. ,a000 5.e0a0 4.e0a0

SPARES Total

SM3uop.ply (ax2%)0

4x,0$,090005% -

2x50,5% -000

1x,625% -,000

x,3245,-5% 000

3x, 0510 5% -

5x85,5% -000

settlement

24%L$e40s5s,000 1,5L4%2e00s0s

L84% ,2e150s0s

2L14% , e150s70s

41%L,05e06s7s

-

2,L4%e950s0s

ofbsdae8( iapuae3nrgsapyhccuirpshirrselnaesfyddt va6fo);p$eaio,afqeobr0luroc1uamvr3eluaesflta

Toafobtoavle Vfsoeartltuleemen-t

04,$9040 0,100 50, 00 625,000 1,03040 2,1150 5,6100 1,2020 0,600 0,1300 2,3090
1$47,000 5,700 ,74580 3,7500 0,940 1,5750
10, 1040
2$, ,48070 0,82$050

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAY 28, 1946

FUSATO: TFNOMHAIRETTREEISDCA

4195

4196

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. MEMORANDUM RELATING TO SHIPPING CLAIMS

The Government of the United States of America and the Pro-

visional Government of the French Republic during the course of

their negotiations on a lend -lease settlement have discussed all mutual

shipping problems and shipping claims arising out of the acquisition, operation and disposition of French vessels under the control of the

United States of America during the period from December 7, 1941

Purchase of Liberty ships from U. S. Marl
time Commission.

to May 1 , 1946, and have agreed as follows : 1. In full and complete satisfaction of any and all claims and financial obligations of one government against the other arising out

of the requisition, use, repair, damage, loss, operation and redeliv-

ery of French vessels, the Government of the United States of

America will deposit a sum of 17.5 million dollars with the United States Maritime Commission on behalf of the Provisional Govern-

60 Stat. 41. 50 U. S. O., app.
§§ 1735-1746.

ment of the French Republic, which sum shall be applied against the purchase by the Provisional Government of the French Republic of up to 75 Liberty ships from the United States Maritime Commission under the terms of the Ship Sales Act, 1946.
a. This sum will be applied by the United States Maritime Commission first to the down payment of the statutory sales

price of the vessels at the time of their delivery as required

by the Maritime Commission under its regulations ; and secondly, any excess of funds remaining after the said down payment will be applied as payments on interest and annual

installments as they become payable towards the amortization of the unpaid balance to the extent that such excess of funds are available.

Waiver of designated financial claims.
Responsibility of Provisional Government for payment of designated claims.

b. The price and other terms of sale shall be mutually determined by the United States Maritime Commission and the Provisional Government of the French Republic in accordance with the Ship Sales Act of 1946. c. The Provisional Government of the French Republic may make application for the purchase of additional ships from the United States Maritime Commission.
2. All financial claims of one government against the other arising out of the loss of French vessels or their cargoes while said vessels were under the control of the Government of the United States of
America are hereby waived. The Provisional Government of the French Republic hereby as-
sumes responsibility for the processing and payment of any claims now or hereafter made by any person, body or corporation who is or was or claims that he is or was at any time the owner of or who has or had or claims to have or to have had any rights in the rem against, or any beneficial interest in any of the French vessels under the control of the Government of the United States of America during the period referred to above or of any of the cargo on said vessels.

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAY 28, 1946
The Provisional Government of the French Republic agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Government of the United States of America, its agents, servants or employees in respect of any such claim . 3. The arrangements set forth herein will be contingent upon mutually satisfactory settlement of all lend- lease and other war accounts ; upon the availability, within the terms of such settlement, of 17.5 million dollars for deposit by the Government of the United States of America with the United States Maritime Commission ; and upon the conclusion of an agreement for the purchase and sale of up to 75 Liberty ships referred to above between the United States Maritime Commission and the Provisional Government of the French Republic.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : W. L. CLAYTON
FOR THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC : H BONNET
WASHINGTON, May 28, 1946

4197

The Assistant Secretary of State to the French Commissioner-General of the Plan for Modernization and Re-equipment

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

MAY 28, 1946

DEAR M. MONNET :
U. 8. establishment This will confirm my understanding with you as to the method by of credit in favor of which, subject to the provisions of the special agreement relating to French Government. shipping claims dated May 28, 1946, the United States will establish
with the United States Maritime Commission the credit of $17,500,000

in favor of the French Government. A sum of $17,500,000 will be

drawn for this purpose from funds heretofore paid by the French

Government to the Foreign Economic Administration but not taken

into account in arriving at the net amount due the United States set

forth in paragraph 2 of the Memorandum of Understanding signed

today by our two Governments.

Sincerely yours,

W. L. CLAYTON

W. L. Clayton

Assistant Secretary

Ante, p.4175.

The Honorable JEAN MONNET, Care of French Supply Council, 1800 Massachusetts Avenue, Washington, D. C.

4198 Ante, p. 4176.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. TROOP PAY AND MILITARY PROCUREMENT

The representatives of the Government of the United States of America and the representatives of the Provisional Government of the French Republic have accepted the recommendations contained in the joint United States-French Report of the Troop Pay and United States Armed Forces Procurement Subcommittee.
The aforementioned report, and the Memorandum of Agreement between the Government of the United States and the Provisional
Government of the French Republic Regarding Expenditures of the United States Armed Forces in French Territory, contain the arrange-
ments and procedures for the settlement of past and future troop pay and procurement of the United States Armed Forces referred to in paragraph 4 of the Memorandum of Understanding of this date between the Government of the United States and the Provisional Government of the French Republic Regarding Settlement for LendLease, Reciprocal Aid , Surplus War Property and Claims.

WASHINGTON, D. C. May 28, 1946.

FOR THE UNITED STATES SIDE

FOR THE FRENCH SIDE

HAROLD GLASSER CARL PFORZHEIMER

GUILLAUME GUINDEY

REPORT OF TROOP PAY AND ARMED FORCES PROCUREMENT SUBCOMMITTEE [+]

Post, p. 4200. Net troop pay.

1. The War Department has submitted the attached report ( Memorandum I ) showing the U.S. dollar liability to France for net troop pay as approximately $29 million and for open market procurement not eligible for reciprocal aid as approximately $2 million, both for the period from D-Day to December 26, 1945.
2. The net troop pay was small in amount because of the large volume of local currency returned to the Army by Army personnel and by others enjoying the privileges of the PX and other Army service organizations.
The detailed reasons explaining the modest amount of troop pay were discussed by the Subcommittee and are embodied in the attached

Post, pp. 4201, 4203.

memoranda by the War Department and the French representatives (Memoranda II and III ) .
3. The French and U.S. representatives on the Subcommittee agree that the extremely small amount of U.S. dollar liability on troop pay account was a result far different from that which had been antici-

pated at the time when the financial agreements concerning lend-lease and civilian supplies were made with the French in 1943 and 1944.

1¹ [No French language text. ]

61 STAT. ] FRANCE--MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT--MAY 28, 1946

4199

It was agreed by both sides of the Subcommittee that the small

amount of U.S. dollar liability on troop pay account is a factor to be considered in making the over- all settlement of the war accounts.
4. In view of the above, the French representatives on the Subcommittee have agreed to recommend that the War Department report (Memorandum I) be accepted as the basis for the settlement of the troop pay account as a part of the over-all war settlement.
5. The French Government has estimated that U.S. Army procurement through the official French office of Aid to the Allied Forces

Basis for settlement of troop pay account.
Post, p. 4200.
U. S. Army procurement through AFA.

(AFA) amounted, for the period from September 2, 1945 , to Decem-

ber 26, 1945 , to five billion francs, or approximately $ 100 million at the old rate of exchange. ( See attached Memorandum IV. )

Post, p. 4204.

The U.S. liability to the French for procurement since December 26

has been estimated at $20 million to April 1 , 1946.

Both the U.S. and French representatives on the Subcommittee con-

cur in these estimates of U.S. Army procurement with the under-

standing that the actual dollar liability of the U.S. for such procurement will be determined on the basis of the French Government's

presentation of appropriate documents in a form acceptable to the U.S. Army, as has been, or may be, agreed upon between the U.S. Army and the French authorities.
6. The U.S. has a liability of $96 million for the francs in the possession of the U.S. Army after the date of conversion. The French have an obligation to convert into dollars any part of the francs not used, in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 8 (C ) below.
7. Against the U.S. obligations the U.S. has advanced to the French on troop pay account $120 million. The net result, therefore, is as shown in the following table :

Conversion offrancs.

U.S. Liabilities to French

(Millions of

dollars)

1. Net troop pay for period up to Dec. 26, 1945 (at old rate of exchange).

29

2. Direct open market procurement prior to Dec. 26, 1945, not eligible for

reciprocal aid ·

2

3. Procurement through French (AFA) from from Sept. 2 to Dec. 26, 1945

100

4. Estimated procurement from Dec. 26, 1945, to April 1 , 1946 . ·

20

5. Francs acquired on Dec. 26, 1945 (at new rate of exchange) · · ·

96

TOTAL

247

French Liabilities to U.S.

1. Advances to French on troop pay · 2. Obligation to convert into dollars excess francs held by Army

120 · 76-96

TOTAL

Net estimated U.S. liability to French .

·

196-216 · 31-51

 This estimate is based on the assumption that net troop pay between Dec. 26, 1945, and April 1, 1946, will not exceed $20 million.

4200 Post, p. 4204

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
8. Suggested procedure for settlement. In order to avoid difficulties with the over-certification of troop pay, it is recommended that the following procedure be adopted for the settlement of the cash accounts by the U.S. and French Governments :
(A ) The U.S. Army will apply the over-certification of net troop pay dollars ( approximately $91 million ) and a small sum of additional dollars ( approximately $7 million ) to pay for the francs which the Army held on December 26 after the change of the rate of exchange ( approximately $ 96 million ) and non-reciprocal aid open-market procurement (approximately $2 million) . For additional currency needs of the U.S. Armed Forces the U.S. will pay in dollars.
(B ) The U.S. Army will pay the French Government for military procurement after September 2, 1945, either in dollars or by tendering the francs which it holds, to the extent that such holdings are in excess of its current needs for troop pay.
(C) The French Government will repurchase against dollars, at the rate at which they were sold to the Armed Forces, the francs presented by the U.S. Armed Forces, but in order to avoid net troop pay negative in amount, this obligation will be subject to the qualifications to be contained in a revised currency agreement.
(D) In order to minimize the transfer into dollars of francs now being held by the Army in excess of its current needs, practical steps will be taken for using these francs for the repayment of the U.S. Army liability for military procurement as estimated in paragraph 5 above.
9. The French have submitted a statement on the Mendes-France Agreement and a proposal for its liquidation ( Memorandum V) .

MEMORANDUM I

Statement by the War Department on Troop Pay and Procurement FRANCE

Troop Pay and Procurement

(Use of French Franc Currency by the U. S. Army - D-Day to C-Day)

ITEM

millions . . FRANCS DOLLARS

1. Total Franc Advances a. Through SHAEF/ETO b. Through ETO/SOLOC c. Through Captured Enemy Funds
2. Francs Returned to French (SHAEF/Direct)

20, 984 ( 18,399)
(2, 370) (215)
7, 478

423 (371 ) (48)
(4) 151

3. Net Advances 4. Total C-Day Balance

13, 506

272

11, 432

230

5. Total Net Francs Spent Locally

2, 074

42

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAY 28, 1946

ITEM
6. Francs Spent by U.S. Army for Direct Local Procurement to 2 September 1945 Chargeable to French as Reciprocal Aid

millions FRANCS DOLLARS

541

11

7. Total Due French 8. Direct Local Procurement
a. To VJ- Day Not Eligible as Reciprocal Aid b. VJ to C- Day

1, 533

31

81

2

(29) ( 52 )

9. Net Troop Pay

1, 452

29

4201

MEMORANDUM II

War Department Statement on the Major Reasons for the Modest Level of Net Troop Pay

1. The mechanical limitations of the official accounts, maintained strictly pursuant to US/UK/French currency agreement of 15 August 1944. Thus, U.S. Army monthly French franc Currency Reports reflect :

Currency Reports.

a. On the disbursements side, only French francs used for pay and allowances to U.S. military personnel and such civilians actually paid by the military establishment.

b. On the receipts side, all cash collections taking in French francs for services rendered through all Army facilities ( such as PX's, messes, clubs, canteens, salestores, commissaries, etc. ) and administrative services rendered (such as personnel transfers, money orders, War/Savings bond purchases, currency conversions, etc. ) not only for U.S. military personnel but also for the following groups, aggregating several hundred thousand individuals :

( 1 ) U.S. civilians, employed by other U.S. departments and agencies, obtaining francs from sources other than WD dollars and from other than U.S. Army disbursing officers ;

(2) Members of the military forces of the Allies, obtaining francs from the French Government itself and/or from non-dollar sources such as sterling, Belgian francs and other foreign currencies ;

(3) French civilians employed by or affiliated with the U.S. and

Allied military establishments, obtaining francs directly from the French Government itself.

2. The U.S. Armed Forces' observance of the overall policies of the French Government designed to preserve to the maximum extent, and revive as rapidly as possible, their domestic economy after five

Domestic economy policies ofFrench GovebrynmeUn.t,S.obAserrmvaencde
Forces.

years of Axis occupation.

a. Implementation by the U.S. Armed Forces of this basic French policy was predicated upon MEMORANDUM No. 11 "Relating to Currency" of 15 August 1944, and the "Memorandum of Agreement between Supreme Commander, Allied Expetitionary Forces,

4202

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
and the Military Delegate under the Ordinance of 14th March 1944, of the French Committee of National Liberation ; " Section IV, paragraph two thereof reading in part, ". . . . troops will be encouraged to make the maximum use of military canteens ; " and paragraph three which reads, "Troops will be encouraged to reduce to a minimum their drawings on pay. Every effort will be made to induce them to invest ." Accordingly, Allied troops were officially encouraged to spend a minimum in France.
b. Maintenance by the French Government of a 50 to 1 franc/dollar rate of exchange resulted in souvenir, gift and luxury item prices extremely unfavorable to military personnel ; and U.S. troops, accordingly, could not spend freely. In addition , these luxury items were occasionally acquired in exchange for cigarettes, candy, soap, etc.
c. During Phase One ( D-Day to VE-Day) general French hospitality minimized the need for military personnel to expend their own funds. Many comforts, local additions to unit messes and entertainment were provided by the French, either gratuitously or in exchange for eagerly sought items such as cigarettes, chocolate, soap, etc. General desire of French communities to show appreciation upon their liberation , provided units immediately behind the combat lines with many gratuitous goods and services.
d. Various French Ministries cooperated , from the liberation of Paris forward, with the Army Post Exchange system in order to increase production of French souvenir and gift items for sale to military personnel. The Post Exchange system imported into France to aid in this objective, millions of dollars worth of supplies and raw materials not available in France. Purchases by the Post Exchange system, from the proceeds of sales to the military, flowed freely into the French economy. This resulted , however, in additional U.S. drawn French francs remaining within, and non-dollar source French francs flowing into, the U.S. Army Post Exchanges.
e. During Phase Two (the redeployment period ) the French Government actively negotiated with U.S. representatives in order to offset the difficult rate of exchange. Adjustment francs totalling 850 francs per man were issued monthly to those permanently stationed in France and to all U.S. military personnel arriving in France on leave, temporary duty, or upon redeployment. As pointed out to the French Government in June 1945 , not being distinguishable from the pay and allowances drawn in francs, some of these adjustment francs flowed back into dollars in the form of cash collection as set forth in paragraph 1 b above. Tax exemption was given to the Post Exchange system on all of its ever increasing volume of French merchandise ; and tax exemption was offered the individual American soldier under certain export conditions. Finally, there was inaugurated an extensive program of free tours, educational opportunities and special group entertainments.

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946

4203

All of the foregoing conditions described in a through e above reduced the need for American military personnel expenditures in the French local economy.
Extra-legal activ3. Extra- legal activities of military and civilian personnel in their ities; currency control.
relations with French citizens. The U.S. Armed Forces inaugurated currency control shortly after VE-Day and is continuously strengthening the control system. It should be noted :
a. The sale of U.S. Government property of material in short supply in France was eliminated by speedy joint action of military and civilian police. However, the seriousness of having French civilians participate in black market operations may not have been brought home as effectively as possible.
b. The very understandable desire of French citizens for a few of life's material comforts provided a great temptation to all Allied personnel having access to Post Exchanges and Quartermaster stores.
c. Although a premium over the official rate was consistently quoted for U.S. currency in the open market, owing to the very restricted availability of dollar notes in the lowest denominations sought by civilian operators, dealings of this nature were extremely limited.
In any event, all of the foregoing types of transactions have resulted in a substantial "value received" on the part of the French population, and represent enhancement of the French economy for which a certain amount of dollars would have had to be spent.

MEMORANDUM III MEMORANDUM By the French Representatives on the amount of net troop pay

It is difficult to discover all the reasons why the amount of net troop pay was so low, because the accounting procedure agreed upon in London on August 25, 1944, does not appear to have been exactly followed.
Memorandum II by the War Department contains an accurate analysis of most of those reasons, and as a whole gives a fair story of what happened.
It should be emphasized however that one of the main reasons for the low amount of the net troop pay is to be found in the fact that a very important quantity of U.S. Army supplies was sold for francs to the French population through various channels, and specially through sales by individual members of the American forces at blackmarket prices. Therefore the needs of the U.S. Armed Forces for French currency were covered to a large extent by francs obtained under conditions other than those foreseen at the time of the conclusion
of the Agreement of August 25, 1944.

Ante, p. 4201

4204

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
France has thereby lost an important source of dollars, amounting possibly to several hundred million dollars, which both American and French authorities had expected her to receive. This loss has been but slightly balanced by the advantages which resulted from the sale to the French population of various products, as those products were seldom essentials and were as a rule sold at abnormally high prices and distributed under conditions which have further upset the French economy .
MEMORANDUM IV
Statement of French Government on Estimate of Goods and Services Furnished to the U.S. Armed Forces between September 2 and December 26, 1945
According to French Government estimates, expenditures for the procurement of supplies, facilities and services for the U.S. Army in France between September 2, 1945 and December 26, 1945 amounted to 5,000,000,000 francs, that is approximately $ 100,000,000. This amount was calculated on the basis of the rate of expenditures by the French Government for reciprocal aid during the months that preceeded September 2, 1945 , and corrected to take into account the reduction of American Army personnel during that period, as well as the decrease of their needs following the termination of military operations.
MEMORANDUM V
Statement by the French Representative on the application of the exchange of letters of May 29, 1944

larAsdajnudstfmraenncts foofr dpoalyoftroops.

1-According to the letter sent by Mr. Mendes-France to Mr. Morgenthau on May 29, 1944, the amount of dollars to be paid by the U.S. Government for the francs used for the pay of the troops should be

equitably adjusted , giving particular consideration to the present rate of exchange.
The rate of 50 francs for 1 dollar which has been used as a basis for

a provisional settlement should not be kept for a definite settlement, since it would be of too great disadvantage to the U.S. Government. On the other hand , the rate of about 120 francs for 1 dollar is still less to be considered as it would impose an undue burden on the French Government. It must be remembered that this latter rate has been set

by the French Government with a view to leaving a margin for an eventual additional rise in French prices. Besides, it must be recalled that, at the time of the landing, French prices were much lower than they are now and that since then they have been steadily increasing. Taking into consideration these various considerations, it seems that an equitable adjustment for the net amount due for the pay of the troops could be made on the basis of 75 francs for 1 dollar.

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946

4205

2-As to the effect of Mr. Mendes-France's letter on the payment of

Payment ofsupplies and services furnished

supplies and services furnished by the French Government to the U.S. bmeyntF.rench Govern-

Army from Sept. 2 to Dec. 26, 1945 , it might be discussed whether the

wording and the spirit of the said letter cover such items. Without

raising such a disucssion it should be observed that the billings made out for that period by the French Government to the American Gov-

ernment are computed on the basis of French official prices and tariffs,

especially for wages and transportation. When said prices and tariffs

are compared with the American prices and tariffs, it appears that the

50 franc rate would be more adequate for the supplies and services

than for the pay of the troops. An adjustment, if desired , should be

arrived at on the basis of a rate intermediary between 50 and 75 francs.

3-As a whole, the American Government owes to the French Govern-

Amount owed by American Govern-

ment, for the period preceding the change in the French rate of ex- ment.

change, the equivalent in dollars of about 5 billion francs for supplies

and services and, according to American figures, the equivalent in dol-

lars of about 1.5 billion francs for the pay of the troops and other expenses non eligible as " reciprocal aid. " These figures, at the rate of

50 francs for 1 dollar, correspond respectively to about $100 million

and $30 million, i. e., a total amount of $130 million.

Moreover, the French Government has disbursed for the U.S. Army a further amount of about 2.8 billion francs for bonus and various

facilities ; therefore, the U.S. Army has received from the French Government, in cash or otherwise a total of 9.3 billion francs. If the

American Government should pay 130 million dollars as a counterpart, it would correspond to an average rate of about 70 francs for 1

dollar for all the expenses of the American army. Such a result would seem to realize the equitable adjustment con-
templated in Mr. Mendes-France's letter.

95347-50-PT. IV- 55

4206

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE PROVISIONAL GOV. ERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC REGARDING EXPENDITURES OF THE UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES IN FRANCE AND FRENCH OVERSEAS TERRITORIES

Use of French francs

by Allied Forces.

By agreements entitled "Memorandum No. I , Relating to Adminis-

trative and Jurisdictional Questions" and annexes thereto, and

"Memorandum No. II , Relating to Currency" initialed by representa-

tives of the United States, British and French Governments on August

15, 1944, and signed in London by General Eisenhower and General

Koenig on August 25, 1944, arrangements were made for the supply

of French francs by the French Government to the Allied Forces and

for the use of French francs by the Allied Forces.

By an agreement entitled "Memorandum Relating to Lend -Lease

59 Stat. 1304.

and Reciprocal Aid ", dated August 15/25 , 1944, and maintained in force by an exchange of letters between the two Governments on February 28 , 1945 , financial arrangements were made between United

States and French authorities under which francs advanced by the

French Government to the United States military forces and used

by the latter for net pay of troops and procurement of goods and services and other expenditures not eligible for reciprocal aid were to be

paid for by the United States Government in dollars.

End of lend-lease

and reciprocal aid.

By agreement reached in letters from Monnet to Clayton dated Sep-

tember 24, 1945 and from Clayton to Monnet dated October 31 , 1945,

reciprocal aid from France was considered as ending simultaneously

with lend-lease aid from the United States to France, i.e. , on Septem-

ber 2, 1945 at 00.01 , with certain exceptions.

Settlement of French franc ad- On December 26, 1945 the French Government changed the rate

vances.

of exchange between the French franc and the United States dollar.

On December 26, 1945, the United States Armed Forces returned to the Bank of France through book entry the total amount of official franc funds held by finance officers, and franc funds held by United States Armed Forces organizations and members of the United States Armed Forces . This return was effected in order to terminate and

settle the French franc advances made by the French Government

since D-Day. However, at the time of the repayment, the United

States Armed Forces by book entries effected the withdrawal of the

same amount of francs from the Bank of France.

Identification of agreements.

The agreements in the following list, which does not purport to be

exclusive, are referred to for identification purposes only :

Memorandum of Agreement between the Supreme Commander, Allied Expeditionary Force and the military delegate under the Ordinance of 14 March 1944 of the French Committee of National Liberation for the procurement of supplies, services and facilities in Continental France, drawn pursuant to Article 17 ( iv) of "Memorandum No. 1 Relating to Administrative and Jurisdictional

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946

4207

Questions in Continental France" signed in London on August 25, 1944 .

Memorandum of Agreement between the Supreme Commander of the Allied Expeditionary Force and the military delegate appointed under the Ordinance of 14 March 1944 of the French Committee of National Liberation, drawn under Article 18 of Memorandum No. 1 concerning the observation by the Allied Forces of

the French regulations concerning the exchange of currency and the export of capital and other matters , signed in London on Au-

gust 25, 1944. Memorandum of Agreement between the French Financial At-
tache in London and Supreme Headquarters, Allied Expeditionary Force, relating to mutilated currency.
Letter of August 20, 1945, from Headquarters USFET to M. Brunet, Director of the Treasury in the French Ministry of Finance, regarding the vesting directly in the United States Armed Forces of the benefits of certain financial arrangements formerly held by SHAEF .
Reference is made to current conversations between the United

States Treasury Representative in France and representatives of the French Government regarding the conversion and redemption of franc currency found among the personal effects of deceased personnel of the United States Armed Forces.

It is now deemed desirable to amend, in certain respects , some of the

Amendatory provisions.

terms of the aforementioned agreements. The following amendatory

provisions, which shall take effect as indicated below, are hereby agreed upon :

Purchase of French 1. (a) All French francs held by the United States Armed Forces francs.
on December 26, 1945, and accounted for to the Bank of France, will

be purchased at the rate of 118.959107 francs to the dollar.

(b) All French francs required by the United States Armed Forces for use in Continental France including Corsica and in French Overseas Territories, in addition to those purchased on December 26,

1945, will be purchased from the French authorities against payment of their countervalue in United States dollars.

(c) The United States Armed Forces may accept francs from,

and shall accept francs from none other than, members of the United

States Armed Forces , quasi-official organizations, agencies and per-

sonnel in and under the military establishment. The United States

Armed Forces shall take all practical measures to avoid the acquisition of francs derived from non-official channels.
2. The francs acquired by the United States Armed Forces may be used only for : ( a ) the pay, exchange of funds, and encashment of

Use of franes acquired by U. S. Armed
Forces.

dollar instruments authorized by the United States Armed Forces, of

troops and personnel in and under the military establishments, and (b) procurement of goods and services. Such francs will be tendered

and accepted at the same rate at which acquired, for each dollar of local

4208

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

procurement not eligible for reciprocal aid, the dollar value being

computed at the rate in force when the goods and services were actually

furnished.

Procurement of goods and services.

3. Appropriate United States and French authorities will determine

the cases in which United States Armed Forces will, in conformity

with the requirements of the French Government, procure, in Con-

tinental France including Corsica and in French Overseas Territories,

goods and services through appropriate French agencies designated

by the French authorities, and the cases in which they will procure

such goods and services through direct purchases. Goods and services procured by United States Armed Forces before

the termination of reciprocal aid when ineligible, and after the termi-

nation of reciprocal aid, will be paid for on the basis of the French

authorities' presentation of appropriate documents in a form acceptable to the United States Armed Forces as has been, or may be, agreed

Return of unused francs, etc.

upon between the United States Armed Forces and the French authorities.
4. In Continental France including Corsica and in French Overseas Territories unused francs may be returned to the French Govern-

ment by the United States Armed Forces at any time, and will be repurchased by the French Government against dollars at the rate at

which they were acquired by the United States Armed Forces ; it being stipulated that the obligation of the French Government to repurchase said francs shall not exceed the amount of francs acquired

against dollars on and after December 26, 1945 by the United States

Armed Forces, after deducting therefrom the amount of francs used

by the United States Armed Forces for procurement of goods and

services.

Sale of scrap and salvage.

5. In conformity with the requirements of the French Government,

the United States Armed Forces will, in Continental France including

Corsica, and in French Overseas Territories, sell all scrap and salvage

only through appropriate French agencies designated by the French authorities with such exceptions as may be agreed upon. Scrap and

salvage thus sold to the appropriate French agencies will be paid for

by the French authorities in United States dollars.

Monthly records of use of francs.

6. The United States Armed Forces will continue to maintain their

accounts so that there will be made available to the appropriate

French authorities, through the United States Treasury Representa-

tive in France, monthly records of the purposes for which francs have

meQnutasr. terly state been used by the United States Armed Forces. Official statements

will be rendered quarterly by the United States authorities.

Effective date.

7. To the extent that agreements referred to herein are not inconsistent with the terms of the within memorandum of agreement they shall remain in full force and effect.
8. This Memorandum of Agreement shall be effective upon signature.

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946
Done at Washington, in duplicate, in the English and French languages, this 28th day of May, 1946.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA FRED M. VINSON GEORGE J RICHARDS. W. L. CLAYTON.
FOR THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC H BONNET

4209

4210

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
DECLARATION BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC ON COMMERCIAL POLICY AND RELATED MATTERS

The Government of the United States of America and the Provisional Government of the French Republic , having concluded comprehensive discussions on commercial policy and related matters, find themselves in full agreement on the general principles which they desire to see established to achieve the liberation and expansion of international trade, which they deem to be essential to the realization of world-wide prosperity and lasting peace.
The French Government has made known to the United States Government the measures which it has taken and intends to take to make possible the attainment of this common objective. The French Government has also made known to the United States Government its plan for the reconstruction and modernization of the French economy. In accordance with the letters exchanged on November 8, 1945, the two Governments have examined this plan and have agreed that the attainment of its objectives should make possible full participation by France in the cooperative achievement of an expanding world economy.
The two Governments have studied the problems involved in the construction of a general framework for world trade and have also examined a number of specific questions relating to commercial policy and other matters which are of interest to themselves and to other countries. The following joint statement by the two Governments summarizes the understandings reached in these discussions.
I
International trade. The two Governments are in complete agreement, at all important points, on the principles expressed in the "Proposals for Consideration by an International Conference on Trade and Employment" submitted to the French Government by the Government of the United States. They have therefore resolved to continue discussions between themselves and with other like-minded countries in order to give effect to these principles in the Charter of the proposed International Trade Organization. The two Governments are of the opinion that the prior conclusion of agreements among the major trading nations of the world for the substantial reduction of tariffs and other barriers to trade and for the removal of discriminatory arrangements would contribute greatly to the success of the World Conference.
II Policies of French The French Government has advised the United States Government Government.
of the following policies :
(a) A new French tariff is being prepared which will contain ad valorem duties only and which will not increase the degree of protection over the level which existed prior to the war. This new

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946

4211

tariff will serve as the level from which reciprocal reductions will be negotiated in the forthcoming multilateral conference.
(b) France has definitely abandoned its pre-war policy of protecting French producers with import quotas.
(c) The French Government has reiterated that it has abandoned the price equalization ( perequation ) procedure which it was compelled to use provisionally during the period prior to the revaluation of the franc in order to facilitate exports.

III
The French Government has made clear that it must maintain Maintenance of import controls by
import controls within the framework of an import program but that French Government. it will maintain such controls only so long as they are necessary to safeguard the equilibrium of its balance of payments and to achieve in an orderly way its plan of reconstruction and modernization. The French Government will administer the issuance of import licenses under the French import program without discrimination as among foreign sources of supply as soon as France possesses, or is able to earn, sufficient free foreign exchange so that it is no longer necessary for her to make her purchases within the limits of bilateral trade and financial arrangements.
IV Return of trade to
The two Governments have reached a mutually satisfactory under- private channels. standing on the return to private channels of trade between France
and the United States. The French Government has already restored to private channels a large part of the import trade of France and
its colonies, and will continue to curtail the foreign procurement activities of the Government.
French Government procurement in the United States will be limited to equipment for public corporations and agencies. For the time being, Government procurement will also be continued for a restricted list of items, such as short supply foodstuffs , steel, lumber, tires and certain medical supplies.
Temporarily, a part of French imports will be handled by associations of private traders, (groupements ) until the difficulties of loading, shipment, and transport of essential supplies and their distribution in France are overcome.
The French Supply Council in the United States will continue to operate on a reduced scale, engaging principally in the liquidation of outstanding contracts and governmental procurement as indicated above. It will limit its purchases to the satisfaction of essential civilian requirements ; it will make the maximum practicable use of normal trade channels ; it will pursue methods consistent with commercial practices and it will cease operations as soon as possible.

V

The two Governments have agreed that important benefits would accrue to both countries from a substantial expansion of French exports to the United States. They have discussed certain United States

French exports to U.S.

4212

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

laws and regulations, which, in the opinion of the French Government, tend to hamper unduly the importation of French products into the United States. Special attention has been given to trade mark and copyright legislation , the use of geographic names related to particular products, price control of imported goods, and valuation of imported goods for the assessment of customs duties. The various agencies of the United States Government which are concerned with these matters have agreed to give careful and sympathetic consideration to the views of the French Government, and to study the possi-

bility of altering their administrative procedures or recommending to the Congress the revision of existing legislation.

VI

Licensing of German patents.

The two Governments have agreed , subject to participation in the

program by other important industrial nations, each to license freely

and without royalty to the nationals of the other, on conditions of reciprocity, all former German-owned patents which have come into

the full possession of either Government, reserving only those rights

which have already been granted with respect to such patents. The

two Governments believe that the general adoption of this policy will

eliminate an important barrier to international trade and will con-

tribute substantially to the achievement of expanding world economy.

In accordance with these objectives, they have agreed, at some future

time, jointly to consider other questions relating to German patents.

VII

War damages to The French Government will accord to American nationals who property.
have suffered damage to their properties in France, through causes
originating in the war, compensation equal to that payable to French nationals having the same types and extent of losses. The United States Government has informed the French Government that equal-
ity of treatment is accorded to French and American nationals with reference to war damages to property in the United States.

VIII

Negotiations for treaty.

In order to provide a sound framework for the expansion of mu-

tually beneficial economic relations between their two countries, the

Governments of France and the United States have agreed to begin negotiations as soon as possible looking toward the conclusion of a

modern and comprehensive Treaty of Establishment, Commerce and

Navigation.

DONE at Washington , in duplicate, in the English and French languages, this 28th day of May, 1946.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : JAMES F BYRNES

FOR THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC : LÉON BLUM

61 STAT.] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946

4213

UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC WITH RESPECT TO THE EXHIBITION OF AMERICAN MOTION PICTURES IN FRANCE

The Government of the United

States of America and the Pro-

Measures applicable in French customs ter-

visional Government of the French Republic, in the light of their ritory.

broad agreement of this date on commercial policy objectives, and

with special regard to changes brought about by the war, have re-

examined certain problems relating to the exhibition in France of

dubbed American motion picture films. As a result of these conversa-

tions, the French Government has informed the American Govern-

ment that it will take the following measures which will be applied in

the customs territory of France :
Screen quota sysEffective July 1 , 1946 , all previous provisions concerning the num- tem.

ber of dubbed films permitted to be shown in France will be aban-

doned. On the same date, a "screen quota" system will be instituted,

as a temporary protective measure, to assist the French motion picture

industry to recover from the disorganization caused by enemy occu-

pation of France. Under this system, motion picture exhibitors in

France will be required to exhibit French films for a certain number

of weeks per quarter. During the remaining weeks, French exhibi-

tors will be allowed free choice of films, foreign or domestic.

Beginning July 1 , 1946, the screen quota reserved for French films will be not more than four ( 4) weeks per quarter.

The screen quota shall continue at the level of four ( 4 ) weeks per

quarter unless reduced to three (3 ) weeks per quarter by the opera-

tion of the following automatic formula :

If, in any two-year period ending on June 30, 1948, or on June 30 of any subsequent year, feature films produced in France should obtain total playing time in French theatres equal to or greater than an average of five ( 5 ) weeks per quarter, the screen quota shall automatically be reduced to three (3 ) weeks per quarter effective October 1 following the expiration of such two-year period.
If, through the operation of the above formula, the screen quota should be reduced to three ( 3) weeks per quarter, it shall continue at that level unless terminated entirely by the operation of the following automatic formula :

If, in any two-year period ending on September 30, during the whole of which period a screen quota of three ( 3 ) weeks per quarter is in effect, feature films produced in France should obtain total playing time in French theatres equal to or greater than an average of five (5 ) weeks per quarter, the screen quota shall be entirely abolished effective January 1 following the expiration of such two-year period.
The French Government has agreed that, in the period during which the screen quota remains in force, it will impose no restrictions whatever on the importation of American films into France, and no restrictions other than the screen quota on the exhibition of American films

4214 Negotiation.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
in France, except such restrictions as are also applied to French films. If, through the operation of this plan, the screen quota should be entirely abolished, there will be , on and after the effective date of such abolition, no restrictions on the importation of American films into France, and no restrictions on the exhibition of American films in France, except such restrictions as are also applied to French films.
The United States Government has noted with satisfaction that the new measures to be taken by the French Government contemplate the complete elimination of protection when the French producing industry has regained its competitive strength.
If, in the opinion of either Government, this plan should, at some future time, be inappropriate to the conditions then prevailing in the French motion picture producing industry or in the French motion picture market, each Government has reserved the right to request the other to undertake negotiations looking toward its modification or termination. If, upon the expiration of six months from the date of such a request, these negotiations shall not have reached a conclusion satisfactory to both Governments, the terms of the Reciprocal Trade Agreement which is then in effect between them shall apply.
DONE at Washington, in duplicate, in the English and French languages, this 28th day of May, 1946.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : JAMES F BYRNES
FOR THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC : LÉON BLUM

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAY 28, 1946
Interpretation of paragraph 6 (i) of the "Memorandum Understanding between the United States and France"

4215

MAY 28 , 1946.
Paragraph 6 ( i ) of the "Memorandum of Understanding Between the United States and France" reads as follows :

Ante, p. 4178.

"The United States Government will undertake to make available
to the French Government part of the United States Government's share of captured German and Japanese surface naval vessels when such vessels become excess to United States needs and are
no longer needed for any task connected with the implementation of the German and Japanese surrenders."
The United States authorities are presently engaged in examining the conditions under which such vessels may be legally made available to another power. In the circumstances, it is understood by both parties to this "Memorandum" that the phrase " will make available to the French Government" in the above quoted paragraph is not to be construed as an undertaking that the vessels in question will be transferred without compensation.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES W. L. CLAYTON.

FOR THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC H BONNET
WASHINGTON, May 28, 1946

4216

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

DECLARATION MADE IN PARIS BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC AND IN WASHINGTON BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES ON MAY 28, 1946 [ 1]

Economic and fi-

nancial problems.

Representatives of the Provisional Government of the French

Republic and the Government of the United States have met together

in Washington and have discussed important economic and financial

problems of common interest. These problems have included the need for foreign credits for reconstructing and modernizing the

French economy, the settlement of lend -lease reciprocal aid and other

war accounts, the purchase of United States surplus property situated in France and certain French overseas territories, the purchase

of ships owned by the United States, and international commercial

policy. The discussions have brought out clearly the full agreement of the

two Governments on cooperation in the fulfillment of the economic

objectives which both Governments recognize as essential to world peace and prosperity. The well-being of the people of all nations

can be advanced through a full flow of trade which enables each country to maintain higher levels of production and better standards

of living. These benefits of world trade can be realized only as the

markets of the world are opened to all countries on fair and equal terms. The two Governments are determined to work together in

securing general international acceptance of the world trade proposals of the United States to be considered by a conference of the

United Nations.

Reconstruction of

French economy.

The reconstruction and modernization of the French economy will

facilitate the integration of Europe in the world economy and enable

France to resume her place as a great producing and trading nation.

The French Delegation has presented a program for reconstructing

and modernizing the economy of France. The immediate objective

is to restore French production to the prewar level ; the ultimate

objective is to expand French production to higher levels commen-

surate with the technical progress of the past two decades. One requi-

site for the fulfillment of this program is an adequate and assured supply of coal, not only from increased French production , but also

from imports of German coal. The United States Government will

continue to assist France in securing an adequate supply of coal from

Germany.

In the opinion of the American representatives, attainment of the

objectives of increased production and trade presented by the French Delegation is necessary to the full and effective participation of France

tiEoxntaelnsicornedoiftasddtioFrance.

in the world economy. In furtherance of the efforts of the French people to this end, the United States has agreed to the extension of additional credits to France.

At the end of 1945 the Export-Import Bank made a loan of $ 550
million to France. The Board of Directors of the Export- Import
1 [No French language text. ]

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946

4217

Bank have now approved a new line of credit of $ 650 million. This

action has been taken pending the time when the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development will be in full operation. The two Governments have reached complete agreement for the
final settlement of all lend- lease and reciprocal aid, including military and civilian supplies furnished by each Government to the other. They have also agreed on the acquisition of United States army and navy surplus property located in France and certain French overseas

Settlement of lendlease and reciprocal
aid.

territories. Under this Agreement , credits of $720 million have been provided for the purchase of surplus property and for goods supplied to France since the end of the war.
Discussions are taking place for an additional credit, subject to the provisions of the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 , whereby France will acquire approximately 750,000 tons of merchant shipping owned by the Government of the United States.
The two Governments believe that the results of the discussions

Credit for French acquisition of mer-
ch6a0ntStsahti.p4p1i.ng. 50 U. S. C., app .
$ 1735-1746.

which have now been concluded will help France in reconstructing

and modernizing the French economy and are a substantial step towards the achievement of the international economic cooperation

which is the prerequisite of a peaceful and prosperous world. They

welcome the support of all of the United Nations in establishing a

world trading and monetary system which will assure a full flow of

commerce to the benefit of the peoples of all countries.

Approved 5/28/46 HARRY S TRUMAN

LÉON BLUM

4218

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
MEMORANDUM D'ACCORD ENTRE LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATSUNIS D'AMERIQUE ET LE GOUVERNEMENT PROVISOIRE DE LA REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE COMPORTANT REGLEMENT EN MATIERE DE PRET-BAIL, D'AIDE RECIPROQUE, DE SURPLUS MILITAIRES ET DE CREANCES DE GUERRE
I. - Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et le Gouvernement Provisoire de la République française ont abouti à un accord relatif à un règlement définitif en ce qui concerne le prêt-bail, l'aide réciproque et la dette française envers le Gouvernement des EtatsUnis résultant du programme militaire de ravitaillement dit Plan "A", à l'acquisition par le Gouvernement français de certains biens en surplus appartenant à l'Armée et à la Marine des Etats-Unis, y compris des installations fixes, situés en France et dans certains territoires français d'outre-mer, et à un règlement définitif des autres créances de chacun des deux Gouvernements à l'égard de l'autre nées de la conduite de la guerre. En arrivant à cet accord les deux Gouvernements ont eu égard aux considérations touchant les principes de l'aide mutuelle qui figurent à l'article 7 de leur accord préliminaire du 28 février 1945 , ainsi qu'aux avantages dont chacun d'eux a bénéficié du fait de la contribution fournie par l'un et l'autre à la défaite de leurs ennemis communs. A la lumière de ce qui précède les deux Gouvernements conviennent de ne pas se réclamer d'avantages supplémentaires au titre du prêt-bail et de l'aide réciproque.
II. - La dette du Gouvernement français envers le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis à raison du règlement mentionné ci -dessus, qui inclut toutes les dettes résultant des dispositions de l'accord du 28 février 1945 relatif au prêt-bail et à l'aide réciproque, est d'un montant net de $720.000.000, qui comprend pour partie des sommes déjà déterminées d'un commun accord et pour le reste des évaluations sujettes à révision. Ces dernières, pour lesquelles les meilleures données existantes ont été utilisées en attendant qu'une procédure comptable, fixée d'un commun accord, ait permis d'établir les chiffres définitifs , représentent principalement des livraisons postérieures au 1er septembre 1945.
III. - Le Gouvernement français paiera un intérêt de 2% l'an à partir du 1er juillet 1946 sur le montant net dû au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis. Les paiements d'intérêts seront effectués le 1er juillet de chaque année, de 1947 à 1950 inclusivement. A partir du 1er juillet 1951 l'intérêt et le principal seront payés en 30 annuités égales. Chaque annuité comprendra la totalité de l'intérêt dû pour l'année écoulée , le reste de l'annuité représentant le capital remboursable à cette échéance. Aucune des dispositions du présent accord ne sera comprise comme s'opposant à ce que le Gouvernement français s'acquitte par anticipation de tout ou partie des annuités restant dues. Si les deux Gouvernements estiment d'un commun accord, qu'en raison de conditions économiques adverses et exceptionnelles survenant au cours de la période de remboursement, le paiement d'une ou plusieurs annuités serait contraire à l'intérêt commun des deux Gouvernements, ce paiement pourra être retardé pour une période fixée d'un commun accord.

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946
Dans la mesure où les conditions de paiement prévues au présent paragraphe III diffèrent de celles qui ont été fixées par des accords. antérieurs , ce sont les présentes dispositions qui prévaudront.
IV.-Les deux Gouvernements sont convenus des dispositions et de la procédure à suivre pour le règlement de la solde des troupes et des autres dépenses des forces armées américaines en France et dans les territoires français d'outre-mer, pour le passé et pour l'avenir.
V.-Le Gouvernement français sera tenu, jusqu'au 1er janvier 1950, de céder au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis, dans la mesure où celui-ci le lui demandera, tels biens immobiliers qui seront désignés d'un commun accord à concurrence d'une valeur totale de $15.000.000 au plus. En outre, le Gouvernement français cédera des francs au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis sur sa demande dans la limite d'un maximum de $10.000.000. Les francs ainsi versés seront fournis au taux de change fixé conformément aux règles suivies par le Fonds Monétaire International, ou, à défaut d'un tel cours, à celui qui sera utilisé à l'époque de chaque versement pour les opérations officielles du Gouvernement français. Le Gouvernement des Etats- Unis utilisera les francs ainsi versés uniquement pour acquérir ou améliorer des biens immobiliers destinés à ses besoins ou pour réaliser telles mesures dont les deux Gouvernements conviendront dans le domaine de l'enseignement.
Les cessions effectuées conformément au présent paragraphe V seront imputées d'abord sur les intérêts courus et ensuite sur le capital, dans l'ordre d'échéance des annuités.
VI.-Les deux Gouvernements sont également convenus des dispositions suivantes :
a) Toutes les créances et obligations financières nées entre les deux Gouvernement de l'acquisition, de l'usage, de la cession ou de la perte de navires français et de cargaisons de ces navires pendant la période où ces navires ont été placés sous le contrôle des Etats-Unis, seront réglées par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis pour une somme de $17.500.000, conformément aux dispositions d'un accord relatif à l'achat par la France d'un nombre maximum de 75 navires dits "Liberty Ships".
b) Les deux Gouvernements expriment leur intention de conclure un accord sur les dommages maritimes, comportant l'annulation réciproque des créances intergouvernementales résultant d'accidents de mer et le règlement par chacun des deux Gouvernements des revendications formulées devant ses tribunaux par ses nationaux contre l'autre Gouvernement et fondées sur des accidents de mer antérieurs au 1er novembre 1945 .
c) Dans le cadre du règlement d'ensemble, le Gouvernement français a accepté d'instruire et de payer toutes les créances encore non réglées que des personnes résidant en France ou dans les territoires français d'outre-mer possèdent sur le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis du fait de l'utilisation ou de l'exploitation irrégulière de droits de brevets pour la production de guerre, de la réquisition par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis pour les besoins de la guerre de droits réels

4219

4220

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
appartenant à ces personnes, et d'actes ou de manquements commis antérieurement au 1er juillet 1946 en France ou dans les territoires français d'outre-mer par des membres des forces armées des EtatsUnis ou du personnel civil attaché aux dites forces.
d) Au cours des négociations, les deux Gouvernements se sont mis d'accord sur le sort de certaines de leurs créances réciproques. A l'exception des cas où une obligation de paiement a été antérieurement reconnue et un mode de règlement convenu, les créances de chacun des deux Gouvernements à l'égard de l'autre qui sont nées du prêt-bail ou de l'aide réciproque, ou qui sont nées à tout autre titre entre le 3 septembre 1939 et le 2 septembre 1945 , directement ou indirectement, de la conduite de la guerre, sont , en l'absence de dispositions contraires dans le présent accord, annulées.
e) Le Gouvernement français accordera aux nationaux des EtatsUnis tel traitement non-discriminatoire qui conviendra en matière d'usage et d'aliénation d'installations à la construction desquelles le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis a contribué et qui sont cédées en vertu du présent règlement.
f) Le Gouvernement des Etats- Unis réserve son droit de reprise des articles fournis en prêt-bail détenus par les forces armées françaises , à l'exception des produits pétroliers et d'une liste d'avions autres que des avions de combat établie d'un commun accord. Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis a indiqué qu'il n'a pas l'intention d'exercer d'une façon générale ce droit de reprise, étant entendu toutefois que les navires de la Marine de guerre américaine et les navires marchands fournis en prêt-bail devront être rendus au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis à moins qu'il n'en soit convenu autrement.
g) La disposition pour des fins militaires en faveur de forces autres que les forces armées françaises d'articles fournis en prêt-bail, détenus par les forces armées françaises au 2 septembre 1945 ou reçus postérieurement, ainsi que la disposition de tels articles pour emploi à des usages civils ailleurs qu'en France et dans les territoires français d'outre-mer, n'auront lieu qu'avec le consentement du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis, et le produit net en sera versé au Gouvernement des Etats- Unis. Sauf dans une mesure très limitée, le Gouvernement français ne libérera d'articles fournis en prêt-bail et détenus par les forces armées françaises, ni pour emploi à des usages civils en France ou dans les territoires français d'outre-mer, ni pour exportation hors de France ou de ces territoires
h) Sous réserve des dispositions du présent Mémorandum d'accord, le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis et le Gouvernement français reçoivent la pleine propriété des articles qu'ils se sont mutuellement fournis en prêt-bail et en aide réciproque et qu'ils détenaient le 2 septembre 1945 ou ont reçus à une date ultérieure. Si un intérêt au titre du prêt-bail se trouve inclus dans des installations déclarées surplus des Etats- Unis et non cédées en application du présent Memorandum d'accord, le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis conservera cet intérêt.
i) Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis s'engage à mettre à la disposition du Gouvernement français une fraction de sa part dans les navires

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAY 28, 1946
de surface pris à l'Allemagne et au Japon, lorsque ces navires viendront à être en excédent des besoins des Etats-Unis et ne seront plus nécessaires pour aucune opération liée à l'application des capitulations allemande et japonaise.
VII.-Les deux Gouvernements conviennent de conclure tels accords spéciaux qui seront nécessaires à l'application du présent accord général .
VIII.-Le present Memorandum d'accord entrera en vigueur des sa signature et les instruments de ratification seront échangés aussitôt que possible.
Fait en double exemplaire a Washington, le 28 mai 1946 en francais et en anglais, les deux exemplaires faisant également foi .
Pour le Gouvernement Provisoire de la République Francaise LÉON BLUM
Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique JAMES F BYRNES

4221

95347°-50-- PT. IV- -56

4222

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
ACCORD RELATIF A LA CESSION DES BIENS ET INSTALLATIONS EN SURPLUS DE L'ARMEE ET DE LA MARINE DES ETATS -UNIS SE TROUVANT EN FRANCE ET DANS CERTAINS TERRITOIRES FRANCAIS D'OUTRE-MER
En application du memorandum d'accord du 28 mai 1946, comportant règlement en matière de prêt-bail, d'aide réciproque, de surplus militaires et de créances de guerre, dénommé ci-dessous memorandum d'accord, et en conséquence d'une partie du paiement à effectuer par le Gouvernement provisoire de la République française au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis en vertu du dit memorandum, les deux Gouvernements ont conclu un accord pour la cession au Gouvernement français de certains biens en surplus aux besoins des forces armées des Etats- Unis. Cet accord est établi compte tenu des avantages qui doivent en découler pour les deux parties et avec la conviction que les biens ainsi cédés seront d'un avantage substantiel pour l'économie civile française.
I. Les deux Gouvernements conviennent que le Gouvernement français acquiert, dans les conditions fixées ci-après, la pleine et entière propriété des biens suivants :
a) Sous réserve des paragraphes II, III et IV ci -dessous, tous articles mobiliers, de quelque nature qu'ils soient, situés en France, en Afrique du Nord et en Afrique Occidentale françaises qui, au 25 mai 1946, étaient déjà déclarés au Commissariat à la liquidation des biens à l'étranger du Département d'Etat des Etats- Unis, dénommé ci -dessous Commissariat à la liquidation , comme étant en surplus des besoins des Ministères de la Guerre et de la Marine des Etats-Unis et mis hors de leur responsabilité ou qui lui ont été après cette date ou lui seront déclarés comme tels.
b) Tous les intérêts possédés par les Ministères de la Guerre et de la Marine des Etats-Unis dans les installations, y compris tous immeubles par destination, situées en France, en Afrique du Nord et en Afrique Occidentale françaises, qui ont été ou seront ultérieurement déclarés au Commissariat à la liquidation comme étant en surplus des besoins des Ministères de la Guerre et de la Marine des EtatsUnis.
c) Tous les intérêts possédés par les Ministères de la Guerre et de la Marine des Etats-Unis dans certains articles et installations situés à Nouméa ( Nouvelle-Calédonie) tels qu'ils sont énumérés dans un aidemémoire relatif à l'Institut français du Pacifique remis par les représentants du Gouvernement français.
II. Sont expressément exceptés des biens cédés en application du présent accord :
a) le matériel de combat non démilitarisé, y compris les munitions ; b) les biens, situés en France, en Afrique du Nord et en Afrique Occidentale françaises, qui ont fait l'objet d'un contrat ou d'un en-

61 STAT. ] FRANCE--MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946
gagement de vente de la part du Gouvernement des Etats -Unis en faveur d'acheteurs autres que le Gouvernement français. Ces biens sont considérés comme ayant fait l'objet d'un contrat ou d'un engagement si, avant le 25 mai 1946, à midi , heure de Paris, les délégués en chef à Paris et au Caire du Commissariat à la liquidation ont, à leur égard, accepté une offre ou conclu, verbalement ou par écrit, un accord qu'ils considèrent comme ferme.
III. Les équipements de navigation aérienne, de transmission et de météorologie situés en France et sur les territoires français d'outremer seront cédés au Gouvernement français en application du présent accord, sous réserve de certaines conditions à fixer par un accord distinct.
IV. En raison de la situation actuelle des transports en Europe, la plus grande partie des locomotives et du matériel roulant appartenant aux Etats-Unis et se trouvant en Europe n'ont pas encore été déclarés surplus et il est impossible à présent de prévoir à quelle date ils le seront. Cependant, le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis a l'intention, quand ce matériel sera déclaré surplus, de le mettre à la disposition du Gouvernement français à des prix à convenir, à concurrence de la franction qui lui en sera allouée par l'Organisation centrale européenne pour les transports intérieurs ( ECITO) .
V. Tous les biens achetés jusqu'ici par le Gouvernement français au Commissaire à la liquidation, qui n'avaient pas encore été payés à la date du 25 mai 1946 sont couverts par le présent accord et le prix en est inclus dans la somme à payer par le Gouvernement français en application du memorandum d'accord.
VI. La propriété effective et la responsabilité de la garde des biens décrits au paragraphe I du présent accord seront transmis aussitôt que possible au Gouvernement français, suivant la procédure dont les représentants du Gouvernement français et du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis conviendront. Le Gouvernement français est prêt à accepter rapidement la responsabilité de la garde des biens et il prendra les mesures nécessaires pour permettre au Gouvernement des EtatsUnis de dégager son personnel de cette responsabilité dans le plus bref délai possible.
VII. Le Gouvernement français accepte que la procédure d'acquisition des biens énumérés au paragraphe I ci -dessus, ne fasse pas obstacle à ce que l'armée ou la marine des Etats- Unis puissent, en raison de leurs besoins et obligations, les consommer ou continuer à les utiliser, jusqu'à ce qu'ils soient effectivement livrés conformément au présent accord.
Les deux Gouvernements sont toutefois d'accord pour que si , pour une raison quelconque, la consommation ou l'usage de ces biens par l'armée ou la marine des Etats-Unis dépasse notablement ce qui avait été envisagé comme raisonnable au moment de la mise en vigueur du présent accord, et s'il en résulte une réduction injustifiée de quantités des biens transférés au Gouvernement français en application du

4223

4224

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
présent accord, les deux Gouvernements se concertent pour déterminer les modifications qu'il conviendra , en conséquence, d'apporter au prix.
VIII. Le Gouvernement français s'efforcera d'éviter que les biens cédés conformément au présent accord , s'ils sont originaires des EtatsUnis et peuvent aisément être reconnus comme tels, ne soient importés aux Etats-Unis sous leur forme présente ou sous une forme sensiblement identique. Toutefois, ces biens peuvent être importés aux EtatsUnis pour être consignés, aux fins de remise en état pour réexportation , à des personnes ou firmes établies aux Etats-Unis. Ils peuvent également être importés aux Etats-Unis par un membre des forces armées des Etats-Unis pour son usage personnel.
IX. Quand il cédera ou répartira des biens visés au présent accord, le Gouvernement français s'efforcera d'éviter toute discrimination contraire aux intérêts légitimes des producteurs américains qui ont fabriqué ces biens ainsi que de leurs agents ou distributeurs. Les membres et les anciens combattants des forces armées des Etats-Unis, les administrations des Etats-Unis, les citoyens des Etats- Unis et les institutions américaines à caractère non lucratif, l'UNRRA et la CroixRouge internationale seront admis, dans les mêmes conditions et avec la même priorité que les autres acheteurs prioritaires de caractère analogue, à se porter acquéreurs des biens cédés conformément au présent accord.
X. Dans la mesure où les biens cédés au Gouvernement français conformément au présent accord ne comprennent pas les articles énumérés au "programme français d'achat de surplus de l'armée des Etats-Unis", tel qu'il a été soumis le 7 mai 1946 par le Conseil français des surplus alliés au Commissariat à la liquidation et tel qu'il a été ultérieurement amendé, le Commissaire à la liquidation fera tout ce qui est en son pouvoir pour mettre les dits articles à la disposition du Gouvernement français, à des prix à convenir, en les prélevant sur les biens en surplus situés hors de France, d'Afrique du Nord et d'Afrique Occidentale françaises. Le Commissaire à la liquidation fera tout ce qui est en son pouvoir pour organiser le transport de ces biens jusqu'en France aux frais du Gouvernement français. Chaque fois que les biens seront acheminés à l'aide de moyens de transport appartenant au Gouvernement des Etats- Unis , le coût de ce transport fera l'objet d'un accord préalable.
XI. Le matériel flottant acquis conformément au présent accord, à l'exception de celui qui figure au programme visé au paragraphe X ci-dessus, sera rétrocédé par le Gouvernement français dans le cadre des recommandations de l'EcTo, les prix de rétrocession ne devant pas dépasser 50% du coût primitif aux Etats-Unis.
XII. Les biens en surplus de l'armée et de la marine des EtatsUnis qui se trouvent en territoire étranger et que les Etats- Unis vendront ultérieurement au Gouvernement français , soit en application des paragraphes IV ou X ci -dessus , soit autrement, seront cédés aux conditions générales et de crédit fixées dans le memorandum d'accord.

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946 Fait à Washington , ce 28 mai 1946 , en français et en anglais, les
deux textes faisant également foi.
Pour le Gouvernement Provisoire de la République Française H BONNET
Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique THOMAS B. MCCABE

4225

4226

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
ETAT RECAPITULATIF FAISANT APPARAITRE LE CALCUL DU MONTANT NET DU AU GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS-UNIS PAR LE GOUVERNEMENT FRANCAIS, MENTIONNE AU PARAGRAPHE 2 DU "MEMORANDUM D'ACCORD" EN DATE DU MAI 1946

I. Articles payables au comptant d'apres de precedents accords

- Crowley- Monnet

23,00

- Modus Vivendi

125, 00

- Colonies

5,00

- Fournitures Civiles Retrocedees par le Royau-

me Uni

1,00

(en millions de dollars) 154, 00

II. Inventaires au jour "VJ"

France Metropolitaine

50, 00

Produits Petroliers Militaires et Avions

de Transport

11, 48

61, 48

III. Cessions effectuees d'apres l'accord 3 (c)

Cessions effectuees apres le " VJ"

Schedules I et II (y compris le fret maritime)

Factures au 30 avril 1946

173, 79

Estimation du Solde

226, 00*

Transferts anterieurs au jour "VJ" Schedule II 5, 24

405, 03

IV. Autres cessions posterieures au jour "VJ" Transactions en cours de la Marine, cessions locales de la FEA, cessions de l'Armee et de la Marine que le Gouvernement des EtatsUnis n'a pas portees au compte du pret-bail direct

80, 00* 700, 51

A deduire:

- Paiements faits par la France jusqu'a ce jour 232, 21

- Valeur en compte sur les creances maritimes 17,50 -- Solde net des autres creances apres due com-

pensation

30, 80

280, 51

SOLDE DU PAR LA FRANCE

420,00

*Note 1. Tous les chiffres de cet etat sont arretes comme definitifs, a l'exception des chiffres, marques d'un asterisque, de 226 et 80 millions de dollars, qui representent les chiffres les plus approches auxquels on soit arrive a l'heure actuelle, et qui seront revises au fur et a mesure que l'on recevra des rapports complementaires.
Note 2. Dans le cadre du reglement, les Etats-Unis cederont a la Commission Maritime des Etats-Unis, conformement a l'Accord sur les creances Maritimes, la somme de 17.500.000 dollars a valoir sur l'achat par la France d'un nombre maximum de 75 navires Liberty.
Note 3. Les chiffres ci-dessus ne comprennent aucune somme due par la France sur les achats de biens et d'installations en surplus.
HENRY R. LABOUISSE Jr.
Paraphe au nom du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis

CHRISTIAN VALENSI Paraphe au nom du Gouvernement Pro-
visoire de la Republique Francaise.

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946
COMITE FRANCO-AMERICAIN POUR LA LIQUIDATION DES COMPTES DE GUERRE
DECLARATION CONJOINTE AU SUJET DES CREANCES LITIGIEUSES
Les créances litigieuses présentées par les deux gouvernements ont été examinées par un "Sous-Comité" mixte des créances litigieuses, dont le rapport a été revu par le Comité mixte du règlement des comptes de guerre. Les créances exposées ci-dessous sont en dernier ressort réglées dans le sens indiqué plus loin. Il est également convenu que :
1.- La formule adoptée pour le règlement de certains litiges représente des concessions faites de part et d'autre par rapport aux principes habituellement appliqués, concessions qui sont faites seulement dans le cadre d'un règlement général satisfaisant des comptes de guerre.
2.- Certaines réclamations relatives au compte du "Modus Vivendi " ne se trouvent pas reportées sur l'état récapitulatif des créances litigieuses ci-annexé, ce compte devant par hypothèse faire l'objet d'un règlement d'ensemble.
3.- Le memorandum d'accord contiendra certaines dispositions concernant l'abandon de réclamations non réglées dans le présent texte.
RECLAMATIONS FRANCAISES
I - Aide Militaire en Afrique du Nord. Le Modus Vivendi du 25 septembre 1943 stipulait que l'aide militaire pour l'Afrique du Nord et l'Afrique Occidentale Française serait donnée en pur prêt-bail , que le Gouvernement français paierait les marchandises destinées à la population civile, et que la distinction entre ces deux catégories de fournitures serait faite d'un commun accord.
Les Français estiment que, sur un montant approximatif de 373,8 millions de dollars, déjà facturé ou restant à facturer comme fournitures à la population civile, 40,8 millions de dollars ont, en fait été affectés directement ou indirectement à des usages militaires et devraient être considérés, aux termes du Modus Vivendi, comme relevant du pur prêt-bail. Les représentants américains ont dans l'ensemble accepté les chiffres présentés par les représentants français, estimant toutefois que le chiffre de 2,8 millions de dollars pour les fournitures en Afrique Occidentale et celui de 5,5 millions de dollars environ pour les fournitures expédiées postérieurement au ler mars 1945, représentant des évaluations d'aide militaire trop élevées. Le montant de la créance française est réduit de 1,4 million de dollars, représentant l'équipement automobile destiné à l'Afrique Occidentale, et de 1,5 million de dollars, représentant des marchandises expédiées après le 1er juillet 1945 .
La demande française est admise pour un montant de 37,9 millions de dollars , qui sera déduit du compte du Modus Vivendi et ajouté au compte du prêt-bail militaire.
II - Colis pour prisonniers de guerre. Des fournitures consistant principalement en produits alimentaires ont été réquisitionnées par le

4227

4228

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
Gouvernement français dans le cadre du Modus Vivendi pour être livrées par l'intermédiaire de la Croix-Rouge Internationale aux prisonniers de guerre français. Les représentants français estiment que ces livraisons doivent être regardées comme une aide militaire relevant du pur prêt-bail, et ajoutent qu'en fait 11 millions de dollars de ces fournitures n'ont jamais été reçus par eux. La demande française est admise pour 25 millions de dollars, somme qui sera déduite du compte du Modus Vivendi pour être ajoutée à celui du prêt-bail militaire.
III - Ajustement du compte Monnet-Crowley. Certaines marchandises réquisitionnées pour l'Afrique du Nord dans le cadre du Modus Vivendi ont été en réalité expédiées en France Métropolitaine en juin 1945 , pendant la période où ce territoire bénéficiait du pur prêt-bail. Les représentants français demandent que ces marchandises soient admises en pur prêt-bail au lieu de figurer au compte de l'accord Crowley-Monnet. Cette demande est admise pour une somme de 0,4 million de dollars.
IV - Frêt sur marchandises achetées hors des Etats-Unis. Pendant la période où la France a bénéficié du pur prêt-bail, le Gouvernement français a acheté comptant, hors des Etats- Unis, des marchandises qui ont été expédiées en France sur des navires appartenant au Gouvernement américain ou contrôlés par lui , et s'est vu réclamer le paiement au comptant du frêt relatif à ces expéditions. Les représentants français demandent que ce frêt soit imputé au pur prêt-bail. Les Américains font observer que le coût du frêt sur marchandises non acquises en prêt-bail n'a été fourni sous ce régime que dans des circonstances spéciales, et assez rarement. Cependant, en raison du fait que les marchandises en question auraient relevé du prêt-bail si elles avaient été acquises aux Etats-Unis, et étant donné que les navires français, se trouvant sous contrôle des Etats-Unis ou du Royaume-Uni n'étaient pas disponibles pour transporter ces marchandises, il est jugé opportun, dans le cadre du règlement d'ensemble, d'admettre cette demande pour un montant de 4 millions de dollars, dont il sera tenu compte dans le solde net des créances litigieuses.
V- Frêts divers. Le Gouvernement français a reçu des factures relatives à des frêts payables au comptant, dans des cas où il estime que ces frêts auraient dû être fournis en pur prêt-bail ou en crédit 3 (c) . La War Shipping Administration précise que les sommes afférentes aux frêts susceptibles de bénéficier du pur prêt-bail ont été remboursées au Gouvernement Français sur les fonds du prêt-bail et que les frêts susceptibles de bénéficier des crédits 3 ( c) seront facturés sur cette base par voie de règlement comptable, de telle sorte qu'il n'y a pas lieu de les considérer comme une créance litigieuse. En conséquence, le Gouvernement français a retiré sa demande.
VI - Charbon . Par accord en date du 25 août 1944, il a été admis que le charbon livré aux forces armées des Etats-Unis en France Métropolitaine ne serait pas fourni par le Gouvernement français au titre de l'aide réciproque, mais serait remplacé en nature ou payé

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946

par les Etats- Unis. Après examen des quantités de charbon échangées il a été convenu que les prélèvements américains jusqu'au jour VJ ont excédé de 150.000 tonnes les remplacements en nature effectués jusqu'au 31 décembre 1945. Le Gouvernement français demande le règlement, au prix de 20 dollars la tonne , ( coût "rendu à terre " approximatif) du charbon réellement acheté au comptant aux EtatsUnis pour parer à l'insuffisance de la production française. Cette demande est admise et sera réglée par un paiement fait sur la même base que pour les autres fournitures antérieures au jour VJ, qui ne sont pas de nature à être admises en aide réciproque.
VII - Autres produits rares. Les représentants français ont retiré leur demande.

VIII - Prix du Coton. Le coton fourni au comptant ou en crédit

3 (c) a été facturé au Gouvernement français sur la base du prix intérieur américain. Les représentants français demandent l'applica" tion du prix pratiqué à l'exportation, lequel est inférieur au prix
intérieur. Les représentants américains sont d'accord sur le principe
et la demande est admise. Une réduction de 1,4 million de dollars
devrait être effectuée sur les comptes de l'accord Crowley-Monnet,
et une réduction de 11,2 millions de dollars sur les comptes du "crédit

3 (c) ", pour traduire l'ajustement correspondant. Il est entendu que ce principe a été pris en considération dans l'évaluation du coton en inventaire au Jour VJ.

IX - Prix du sucre. Le Gouvernement français demande également l'exemption de certaines taxes de transformation et la ristourne de droits de douane sur le sucre exporté vers la France et l'Afrique du Nord française. Ces réductions sont d'usage en matière d'exportations commerciales en temps de paix, mais il n'a pu être satisfait aux formalités administratives dans le cas des expéditions en question, de

sorte que les factures actuelles n'en font pas état. Cette demande est admise. Les comptes du Modus Vivendi devraient être réduits de 7,4

millions de dollars et ceux du crédit 3 ( c ) , de 0,1 million de dollars. X - Prix des locomotives. 700 locomotives ont été livrées au Gou-

vernement français dans le cadre de la "Schedule II" de l'accord 3 ( c ) et ont été facturées à un prix unitaire d'environ 120,700 dollars, f. a. s. New York. Les représentants français estimaient que ce prix était excessif car la mission française a acheté dans le commerce privé des locomotives sensiblement identiques pour 110.500 dollars chacune,

f. o. b. usine. Les représentants américains ont expliqué comme suit la décomposition de leur prix (en chiffres approximatifs ) :

Coût des locomotives sous contrat du War Department .

$110,000

Frais facturés par l'Army Transportation Corps, pour services divers, inspection, etc. 5% .

$5, 500

Frais facturés par le War Department pour manutention transports

terrestres, etc. ( 10 %) . .

$11, 550

A déduire, escompte de 5 % en application de l'accord 3(c)

127, 050 $6, 350

Prix facturé au Gouvernement français ·

$120, 700

4229

4230

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Les représentants américains ont de plus déclaré que les frais de 5 et 10% ajoutés par le War Department sont proprement imposés par les règlements intérieurs de cette administration. A la suite de cette explication, les représentants français ont retiré leur réclamation.
XI - Taxes d'accise. La France a acheté, au comptant ou à crédit, des marchandises qui sont soumises aux Etats-Unis à des taxes indirectes sur les ventes intérieures. Ces taxes d'accise ne sont pas applicables aux ventes à l'exportation mais il a été administrativement impossible de suivre la procédure prescrite par les règlements de la Trésorerie afin d'en obtenir l'exonération. Cependant, le fait de l'exportation étant indiscutable, le Gouvernement français a demandé que cette taxe indirecte soit supprimée quand elle apparaît sur les factures. La réclamation paraît fondée dans son principe, et les chiffres français et américains sont sensiblement les mêmes. La demande est acceptée ; le compte "Modus Vivendi " sera réduit de 0,13 million de dollars, et le compte "crédit 3 (c) " de 0,37 million de dollars.
XII - Mode de facturation du pétrole en Afrique du Nord. Le pétrole fourni à la France, en Afrique du Nord, jusqu'au milieu de 1943, a été facturé sur la base du produit de sa revente. Il était envisagé qu'à partir du 30 juin 1943 les factures seraient établies sur la base du "coût rendu à terre " ; cette procédure fut, en fait, appliquée aux produits autres que le pétrole, tandis que ce dernier fut facturé sur la base du produit des ventes jusqu'au 30 septembre 1943. Les représentants français estiment que l'extension de cette procédure pendant 3 mois pour les produits pétroliers, n'est pas justifiée, et demandent que soit accordée la somme de 1,2 millions de dollars, qui constitue la différence d'application des deux procédures. La demande est admise pour cette somme qui sera déduite du compte "Modus Vivendi ", et imputée au prêt-bail direct.
XIII - Prix du pétrole en Afrique du Nord. Le Gouvernement français considère que les prix auxquels ont été facturés les produits pétroliers livrés à l'Afrique du Nord, à partir du ler octobre 1943 étaient beaucoup plus élevés que les cours mondiaux. Les représentants de l'Army and Navy Petroleum Board ont donné le détail des prix facturés à la France et montré que c'étaient en fait les prix de revient réels "rendus à terre", des dits produits pétroliers. En conséquence, les représentants français ont retiré cette demande.
XIV - Livraisons françaises de pétrole au "pool " nord-africain. 93.000 tonnes de pétrole appartenant aux français ont été versées au "pool" nord-africain, par l'intermédiaire d'organismes britanniques. La réclamation française procède de celle d'une compagnie française privée, contre les revendications de laquelle la France s'engage à garantir les Etats-Unis. Les Français considérant que le pétrole est en quantité tellement limitée sur les territoires français que l'aide réciproque ne saurait s'appliquer à ce produit, ont réclamé le paiement intégral de ces livraisons. Les Américains considéraient en revanche qu'ils ne sauraient être tenus de payer les quantités relativement peu importantes de produits pétroliers livrées au "pool " par la France, étant donné que les Etats-Unis avaient fourni eux-mêmes en pur

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946
prêt-bail de très grandes quantités de ces produits ; la contribution de la France doit, selon eux, être traitée de la même façon que celle des autres membres du "pool". En conséquence, les représentants américains estimaient que la contribution française devait venir d'abord en compensation des prélèvements militaires français, lesquels dépassaient dans une très large mesure les fournitures faites au "pool" par la France. La réclamation française fut retirée.
XV - Prix du caoutchouc. Il est convenu que le prix facturé aux Français doit être le même que celui payé par les Etats-Unis, sous réserve de rectifications pour frais supplémentaires, etc... Les représentants américains déclarent qu'il sera procédé aux corrections nécessaires au cours des opérations comptables.
XVI  Marchandises endommagées ou perdues. La France a abandonné cette réclamation.
XVII - Frais d'achat. La France a retiré sa demande tendant à la réduction des 15 % de frais accessoires (transport terrestre et manutention, etc.. ) ajoutés au coût des marchandises achetées sur une base "cash reimbursable" ou en crédit 3 (c).
En ce qui concerne le charbon acheté sous Réquisition "Q," les organismes pourvoyeurs américains demandent le remboursement des frais effectivement encourus, au lieu d'ajouter 15 % au prix d'achat. Les représentants français font valoir que les 15 % constituent une couverture moyenne des dépenses supplémentaires effectuées sur un groupe de marchandises ; dès lors, si le coût réel des services doit être la règle pour le charbon, cette règle doit s'appliquer à toutes les autres marchandises obtenues en Réquisition "Q".
Les représentants américains répondent que les 15 % sont manifestement insuffisants pour couvrir les dépenses accessoires dans le cas du charbon et que ce produit représente 23 millions de dollars sur un total de 62 millions de dollars pour les Réquisitions "Q". L'application de la règle des 15% se traduirait dès lors pour les Etats-Unis par une perte qu'aucun crédit budgétaire ne peut couvrir. D'autre part, l'abandon complet de cette règle créerait un précédent dont il faudrait étendre le bénéfice aux autres pays et qui créerait de sérieuses perturbations dans la procédure comptable suivie par les organismes fournisseurs américains.
Il semble que, techniquement, les frais accessoires devraient être les mêmes pour toutes les marchandises ; cependant les représentants français ne méconnaissent pas le problème auquel l'administration américaine doit faire face. A la demande des représentants américains, ils ont consenti à retirer leur réclamation.
XVIII - Pétrole livré à la France Métropolitaine pour les usages civils, du 28 février au 2 septembre 1945. Les Français demandent que telles quantités de pétrole livrées par les organismes militaires mixtes d'approvisionnement qui provenaient de sources américaines soient considérées comme fournies en application de l'accord de prêtbail du 28 février 1945, et non en vertu du plan "A". Ils soulignent qu'il n'y avait pas de programme-cible ("target-program" ) dans le plan "A" en ce qui concerne le pétrole, tandis que la "Schedule I" de

4231

4232

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
l'accord de prêt-bail contenait un programme important de livraisons de pétrole qui ne serait pas réalisé s'il n'était pas fait droit à leur demande. Les Américains répondent, qu'en fait, ces livraisons ont été faites, et ont été comptabilisées comme fournitures sous plan "A", en vertu d'accords tripartites d'approvisionnement auxquels la GrandeBretagne et le Canada sont également intéressés . En considération du règlement général satisfaisant prévu pour le plan "A", la France retire sa demande.
XIX - Stocks de pétrole en Afrique du Nord - Novembre 1942. La France demande une compensation pour le pétrole saisi par l'armée américaine à l'époque du débarquement en 1942. Cette réclamation est basée sur la même argumentation que la réclamation XIV ci -dessus, c'est-à-dire que le pétrole ne peut pas être fourni en aide réciproque par la France. La position américaine est également la même les Etats-Unis ne peuvent payer ces stocks à la France étant donné que depuis Novembre 1942, ils ont fourni au Gouvernement français de bien plus grandes quantités de pétrole, sur la base du pur prêt-bail. La France a retiré sa demande.
RECLAMATIONS AMERICAINES
1.-Réclamations maritimes (Abordages) . Les Etats-Unis ont demandé à la France de conclure un accord prévoyant l'abandon réciproque des réclamations intergouvernementales découlant d'accidents maritimes et disposant que chaque pays règlerait sur une base de pur prêt-bail et d'aide réciproque les réclamations portées devant ses tribunaux par ses nationaux, contre l'autre pays. La France admet ce principe. Le projet d'accord fait encore l'objet d'un examen par les deux gouvernements. Il est recommandé que l'accord soit réalisé et signé aussitôt que possible, et que, si cela ne peut être fait avant un règlement général, celui-ci contienne une déclaration par laquelle les pays exprimeront leur intention de conclure un accord couvrant la période de prêt-bail.
2.-A/ Réclamations pour dommages. Les Etats-Unis ont demandé à la France d'assurer l'instruction et le paiement de toutes les créances sur les Etats- Unis non encore payées, résultant d'actes ou de manquements commis en France ou dans les territoires français d'Outre-mer par des membres des forces armées des Etats-Unis ou du personnel civil attaché auxdites forces, et se rapportant non seulement aux réclamations pour dommages causés "en service ", mais aussi à celles pour dommages causés en dehors du service, qui ont été jusqu'à présent instruites par les Etats-Unis. Aucune demande n'est présentée pour celles de ces réclamations qui ont déjà été indemnisées par les Etats-Unis. La France accepte d'assumer cette obligation en ce qui concerne les dommages découlant d'incidents survenus avant le 1er juillet 1946.
B/ Brevets. Les Départements de la Guerre et de la Marine des Etats-Unis, sont tenus de diverses obligations vis-à-vis de personnes résidant en France ou dans les territoires français d'Outre-mer, pour redevances et éventuellement exploitation irrégulière de brevets améri-

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAY 28, 1946
cains utilisés dans la production de guerre. Il a été demandé à la France d'en assumer la charge au titre de l'aide réciproque. Les représentants français acceptent d'assumer cette obligation.
C/ Biens réquisitionnés. Le Gouvernement américain a réquisitionné, pour être utilisés dans le programme de guerre, des biens situés aux Etats-Unis dans lesquels des résidents français avaient des intérêts ; les Etats-Unis se trouvent ainsi responsables du paiement du juste prix des droits réels réquisitionnés. La France accepte d'assumer cette charge.
D/ Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis fournira au Gouvernement français, à la demande de ce dernier, tous les renseignements nécessaires à l'instruction des réclamations dont se charge le Gouvernement français, en vertu du présent paragraphe 2.
E/La France accepte d'abandonner toutes les réclamations contre les Etats-Unis que le Gouvernement français pourrait avoir à faire relativement aux questions mentionnées dans le présent paragraphe 2.
F/Dans le règlement définitif des créances litigieuses une somme de 15 millions de dollars sera accordée à la France en considération de celles des obligations qu'elle aura assumées en vertu du présent paragraphe 2, et qui ne sont pas matière à aide réciproque.
3. Affrètements de navires.
Des recommandations ont été faites à ce sujet par un autre comité mixte chargé des questions maritimes.
4.- Accord de troc sur le sucre.
L'accord dit "accord de troc No. 2 ", en date du 1er août 1944, signé entre la Foreign Economic Administration , le Conseil Français des Approvisionnements en Amérique du Nord, et la Commodity Credit Corporation, disposait que pendant la période 1er Août-31 Décembre 1944, C. C. C. livrerait aux Français certaines quantités de sucre raffiné, débiterait le compte de la F. E. A. de la valeur du sucre raffiné fourni , et rendrait compte à la F. E. A. des quantités livrées en vue d'un règlement entre la France et F. E. A. , dans le cadre du prêt-bail remboursable. De leur côté les Français s'engageaient à fournir à C. C. C. 107 livres de sucre brut en provenance de la Martinique et de la Guadeloupe pour chaque 100 livres de sucre raffiné livré aux Français, la valeur de ce sucre brut devant être créditée en regard des livraisons de sucre raffiné.
En fait, le Gouvernement français n'a pu tenir cet engagement en ce qui concerne 62.000 tonnes de sucre brut qui n'ont pu être livrées, et a informé le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis que les dites livraisons. n'auraient pas lieu . C. C. C. a acheté les quantités susdites de sucre à Cuba, au prix local, lequel était plus élevé que le prix du contrat , ce qui a entrainé pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis une dépense supplémentaire de $669,884.07 . C. C. C. a imputé cette somme au compte F. E. A.
Les Etats-Unis demandent que la France supporte la charge de cette différence de prix, comme dommages résultant du fait qu'elle n'a pas livré les quantités de sucre prévues au contrat. Il est recommandé de faire droit à cette réclamation.

4233

4234

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
5.- Affectations erronées. Les Etats-Unis ont demandé à la France d'inclure dans le règlement général une somme destinée à faire face aux réclamations résultant du fait que des marchandises acquises en prêt-bail ont reçu une affectation erronée ou ont été retransférées par la France, dans les territoires métropolitains et d'Outremer, au cours de la période allant du 11 mars 1941 au 1er septembre 1945 inclusivement, ou ont été exportées pendant la dite période, opérations qui ouvrent aux EtatsUnis un droit à remboursement . Cette demande est admise pour un montant d'un million de dollars.
6. -- Revision de la Clause des Prix. En vertu de l'accord 3 ( c ) , la France a droit à une réduction de 5% sur le prix du contrat pour les marchandises livrées. Le but initial de cette disposition était d'accorder à la France le bénéfice des réductions obtenues sur renégociations des contrats par les organismes compétents américains. Il est maintenant admis que les ristournes sur renégociations sont bien inférieures en moyenne aux 5 %. Les Etats-Unis se sont proposé de demander une révision de l'accord 3 ( c) pour tenir compte de ce fait ; mais étant donné que la France a abandonné sa demande sur la réduction des frais accessoires sur achats, les EtatsUnis ont retiré leur demande.
7.- Lest en provenance d'Afrique du Nord . Des navires américains ayant transporté des marchandises en Afrique du Nord, ont effectué leur voyage de retour avec du lest fourni par la France. A l'arrivée aux Etats-Unis, ce lest a parfois été jeté, parfois vendu. Les Etats- Unis demandent que la fourniture de ce lest soit considérée comme aide réciproque. La demande est acceptée par la France.
Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis HENRY R. LABOUISSE JR. Pour le Gouvernement Provisoire de la Republique Francaise. CHRISTIAN VALENSI

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946

ANNEXE CREANCES LITIGIEUSES FRANCO -AMERICAINES ETAT RECAPITULATIF

1. Demandes admises ,

Millions de dollars

à imputer au prêt-bail militaire.

France : -Aide militaire en Afrique du Nord · · -Colis pour les prisonniers de guerre .
2. Demandes admises, à régler au titre des fournitures militaires.

37.9 · 25.0

France : -Charbon

3.0

3. Demandes admises,

à traduire dans le solde

net des réclamations ,

France : -Ajustement du compte Monnet-Crowley

0.4

-Frêt sur marchandises obtenues en dehors des Etats-

Unis ...

4. 0

-Prix du coton

12. 6

-Prix du sucre

0. 1

-Taxes d'accise

0.37

-Somme accordée au titre des réclamations américaines

sur les dommages, les biens réquisitionnés et les brevets,

qui ne sont pas susceptibles de figurer au compte de

l'aide réciproque .

15. 0

Etats-Unis : -Accord de troc sur le sucre . · -Affectations erronées

.67 1. 0

32. 47 1. 67

-Solde net des réclamations à créditer à la France . 4. Demandes admises

30. 80

en principe.

Etats-Unis : -Réclamations maritimes (Abordages) -Réclamations pour dommages -Brevets, biens réquisitionnés -Lest en provenance d'Afrique du Nord
5. Demandes retirées

France: -Frêts divers -Marchandises rares, autres que le charbon -Prix des locomotives -Prix du pétrole-Afrique du Nord -Livraisons de pétrole au "pool" nord-africain -Marchandises manquantes ou endommagées -Frais d'achat
-Pétrole pour les besoins civils en France Métropolitaine- Février Septembre 1945
-Stock de pétrole en Afrique du Nord- Novembre 1942 Etats-Unis: -Revision de la clause des prix

CHR V HL

4235

Type PBY5A .-4C7B C-50A C-45F
U-7. 8C B-13TB
L-4 1-R830-90C
R-1820-87 A3&-9R8N51
-7R55
Type C-47B C-60A C-45F
7U- 8C L-4
B-13T PBY5A
12WM,le89Aa4Si6HINGTON PULE- NETOISAUSTRS HRLJr.AEBNORUYISSE
PLFOARUARNCE CVHARLIESNTSIAN

FENL-UNETCNRAISGAOTSOTNRCSOECIMEAITQIUOENSS

Ldaqcemti'uceouoastucmnembtvrnob-leimriaosduentsn

tpMdl6(F)edei'anueuoatrnmnceasoncgeoreraadpnhdeum

2M1. 98a4i6 Quantite

vPFdreLinxOte

19

0.c,2$0h60

40,$9040

50

c2.0, h00

0,100

2

c2.0, h500

0,500

25

.c,02h500

60, 2050

67

c2. h,000

10, 3040

25

4c. h50

2,1150

123

5c. 0h0

65, 100

17

c3.,1h00

1,2020

2

c0.,3h00

0,600

26

5c. 0h0

10, 300

98

4c. h00

2,3090

dPpr'aiarxchat unite
90$, 800  10, 2050 X
0,6X050 35,0X00 4,250 X 4,2030 X 02, 020 X

Nombre
5- 0 22-5 67 1-23 -25 -19

PRDIEECCHEASNGE

Total

Approvisionpnoeumrent
3mois (3/1%)2x20

9x,04$00 5%

2x50,005% 0

10x, ,06025 5%

2x,345,5% 000 3,x0510 5% 5x,08050 5%

2$45,000 M4%o0ins

1,5200

M4%o0ins

8,2150

M4%o0ins

1,21570

M4%o0ins

1,0567

M4%o0ins

2, 950

M4%o0ins

par$6);vdv,aea0ligr1eol3unerment

-

1,0$4070

7,500

47, 850



37, 050

-

0,940

15, 750

dp(8jerpio'ena3euacrcrphespasrnogveisionnement

asclbdf-, ioauevaoeilrsirtcseomuunulslee

01, 1040

Total

Vdreaglleeumrent

,2$,48070 08,2$050

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

4236

61 STAT.] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946
MEMORANDUM
SUR LES CREANCES MARITIMES
Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis et le Gouvernement provisoire de la République française ont , au cours des négociations relatives au règlement du Prêt-Bail, discuté de tous les problèmes communs de transports maritimes et de toutes les créances maritimes nés du fait de l'acquisition, de l'usage et de la cession de navires français placés sous le contrôle des Etats- Unis d'Amérique pendant la période du 7 décembre 1941 au 1er mai 1946, et sont convenus des dispositions suivantes :
1. A titre de règlement complet et définitif de toutes créances et dettes financières quelles qu'elles soient, d'un gouvernement envers l'autre, nées de la réquisition , l'emploi , la réparation , l'avarie, la perte, l'usage et la restitution de navires français, le Gouvernement des EtatsUnis d'Amérique déposera une somme de 17.500.000 dollars auprès de la Commission Maritime des Etats-Unis, au nom du Gouvernement Provisoire de la République française, cette somme devant être imputée sur le prix de l'achat par le Gouvernement provisoire de la République française à la Commission Maritime des Etats- Unis d'un nombre maximum de 75 navires dits "Liberty Ships " dans le cadre de la Loi de 1946 sur les ventes de navires.
a) Sur cette somme la Commission Maritime des Etats- Unis imputera en premier lieu l'acompte du prix de vente statutaire des navires payable à la date de leur livraison comme requis par les règlements de la Commission Maritime. Le solde de cette somme après ledit paiement d'acompte sera affecté aux paiements d'intérêts et aux annuités sur le solde du prix de vente, au fur et à mesure de leur échéance, et jusqu'à extinction de ce solde.
b) Le Gouvernement provisoire de la République française et la Commission Maritime des Etats-Unis conviendront du prix et des autres conditions de vente dans le cadre de la Loi de 1946 sur les ventes de navires.
c) Le Gouvernement provisoire de la République française pourra se porter acquéreur d'autres navires auprès de la Commission Maritime des Etats-Unis.
2. Toutes créances d'un gouvernement sur l'autre nées de la perte de navires français ou de cargaisons de ces navires pendant la période où ces navires ont été placés sous le contrôle du Gouvernement des EtatsUnis d'Amérique sont annulées.
Le Gouvernement provisoire de la République française assume par le présent accord la responsabilité d'instruire et de payer toute demande qui a été ou sera présentée par toute personne physique ou morale, qui est, ou qui était, ou qui prétend être ou avoir été, à un moment quelconque, propriétaire de, ou titulaire de droits réels sur, tout navire français placé sous le contrôle du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique pendant la période sus-mentionnée ou toute cargaison d'un tel navire.
95347°-50-PT. IV- 57

4237

4238

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Le Gouvernement provisoire de la République française convient d'indemniser et de garantir le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, ses agents, fonctionnaires ou employés, pour toute demande de ce genre.
3. Les dispositions du présent accord seront subordonnées à un règlement satisfaisant pour les deux parties de tous comptes du PrêtBail et autres comptes de guerre, à la possibilité de disposer, conformément aux conditions dudit règlement, de la somme de 17.500.000 dollars que le Gouvernement des Etats - Unis doit déposer auprès de la Commission Maritime des Etats -Unis et à la conclusion de l'accord susmentionné entre le Gouvernement provisoire de la République française et la Commission Maritime des Etats -Unis, pour l'achat et la vente d'un nombre maximum de 75 navires dits "Liberty Ships".
WASHINGTON le 28 mai 1946.
Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique. W. L. CLAYTON
Pour le Gouvernement provisoire de la République française. H BONNET

SOLDE DES TROUPES ET ACHATS DE L'ARMEE

Les représentants du Gouvernement des Etats- Unis d'Amérique et les représentants du Gouvernement Provisoire de la République Française ont acquiescé aux recommandations contenues dans le rapport conjoint présenté par le Sous-Comité de la solde des troupes et des achats des forces armées américaines en France.
Ce rapport, ainsi que le memorandum d'accord entre le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis et le Gouvernement Provisoire de la République Française concernant les dépenses des forces armées des Etats -Unis en France et dans les territoires français d'outre-mer, constituent les conventions sur les dispositions à suivre pour le réglement de la solde des troupes et des autres dépenses des forces armées des Etats- Unis mentionnées au paragraphe 4 du memorandum d'accord de ce jour entre le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis et le Gouvernement Provisoire de la République Française comportant réglement en matière de prêtbail, d'aide réciproque, de surplus militaires et de créances de guerre.
WASHINGTON, D. C. le 28 mai 1946

POUR LES ETATS-UNIS HAROLD GLASSER CARL PFORZHEIMER

POUR LA FRANCE GUILLAUME GUINDEY

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946
MEMORANDUM D'ACCORD ENTRE LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATSUNIS D'AMERIQUE ET LE GOUVERNEMENT PROVISOIRE DE LA REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE CONCERNANT LES DEPENSES DES FORCES ARMEES DES ETATS UNIS EN FRANCE CONTINENTALE ET DANS LES TERRITOIRES FRANCAIS D'OUTRE-MER
Des accords intitulés "Memorandum No I, relatif aux questions administratives et juridictionnelles" ( avec annexes) et "Memorandum No 2, relatif à la monnaie", paraphés par les représentants des Gouvernements français, américain et britannique le 15 Août 1944 , et signés à Londres par le Général EISENHOWER et le Général KOENIG le 25 Août 1944 , ont réglé les conditions d'approvisionnement des forces alliées en francs francais par le Gouvernement français et d'utilisation de francs français par les forces alliées.
Par un accord du 15/25 Août 1944, intitulé "Memorandum relatif au prêt-bail et à l'aide réciproque", maintenu en vigueur par un échange de lettres entre les deux Gouvernements en date du 28 Février 1945, les autorités françaises et américaines ont adopté des dispositions en vertu desquelles les francs avancés par le Gouvernement français aux forces armées des Etats-Unis et utilisés par ces dernières pour la solde nette des troupes et pour les autres dépenses non susceptibles de bénéficier de l'aide réciproque, devaient être payés en dollars par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis.
Par un accord résultant d'une lettre de M.MONNET à M. CLAYTON en date du 24 Septembre 1945 et d'une lettre de M. CLAYTON à M. MONNET en date du 31 Octobre 1945, l'aide réciproque donnée par la France a été considérée comme se terminant en même temps que le prêtbail accordé par les Etats-Unis à la France, soit le 2 Septembre 1945, à O heure, ceci sous réserve de certaines exceptions.
Le 26 Décembre 1945 , le Gouvernement français a modifié le taux du change entre le franc français et le dollar des Etats-Unis. A cette date, les forces armées des Etats- Unis ont reversé, en écritures, à la Banque de France, le montant total des francs détenus officiellement par les officiers de finance, et des francs détenus par les membres des forces armées des Etats- Unis et par les organismes en dépendant. Ce reversement a été effectué à l'effet de terminer et de régler les avances en francs faites par le Gouvernement français depuis le jour du débarquement. Toutefois, les forces armées des Etats-Unis ont en même temps retiré de la Banque de France, en écritures, un montant en francs égal.
Pour définir la question, il y a lieu également de se référer aux accords suivants dont la liste ne doit pas être considérée comme limitative.
Memorandum d'accord entre le Commandant en Chef des forces expéditionnaires alliées et le Délégué militaire désigné conformément à l'ordonnance du 14 Mars 1944 du Comité français de la Libération Nationale, relatif à la fourniture des prestations en France continentale, conclu en application de l'article 17 ( IV) du memorandum No I relatif aux questions administratives et juridictionnelles en France continentale, signé à Londres le 25 Août 1946.

4239

4240

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Memorandum d'accord entre le Commandant en Chef des Forces
expéditionnaires alliées et le Délégué militaire désigné conformément à l'ordonnance du 14 mars 1944 du Comité français de la Libération Nationale, établi en application de l'article 18 du memorandum No I et relatif à l'observation par les forces alliées de la règlementation française sur le change et les exportations de capitaux et à certaines autres questions, signé à Londres le 25 Août 1944.
Memorandum d'Accord entre l'Attaché Financier à Londres et
l'Etat-Major des Forces Expéditionnaires Alliées, relatif aux billets détériorés .
Lettre du 20 Août 1945 de l'Etat-Major des forces des Etats-Unis en Europe à M. BRUNET, Directeur du Trésor au Ministère des Finances français, relative à l'attribution aux forces armées des EtatsUnis en France du bénéfice de certains arrangements financiers précédemment conclus avec SHAEF.
Il convient enfin de se référer aux conversations en cours entre le
représentant de la Trésorerie américaine en France et les représentants du Gouvernement français au sujet de la conversion et du rachat de billets français trouvés parmi les effets des membres décédés des forces armées des Etats-Unis.
Il apparait maintenant souhaitable de modifier à divers égards certaines des dispositions des accords ci-dessus mentionnés. Il est convenu à cet effet des dispositions suivantes, qui constituent avenant aux dits accords, et qui prennent effet à compter des dates. respectives mentionnées ci -dessous :
1 - a) Le montant total des francs détenus par les forces armées des Etats-Unis au 26 Decembre 1945, et retirés de la Banque de France, sera acheté au taux de 118,959107 pour un dollar.
b) Tous les francs dont les forces armées des Etats-Unis auront besoin en plus de ceux achetés le 26 Décembre 1945 , pour utilisation en France continentale (Corse incluse ) et dans les territoires français d'outre-mer, seront achetés aux autorités françaises moyennant paiement de leur contrevaleur en dollars des Etats-Unis.
c) Les forces armées des Etats-Unis peuvent accepter de recevoir des francs présentés par leurs membres, leurs organismes officiels ou assimilés et généralement leur personnel ayant le statut militaire, mais ne peuvent accepter de recevoir des francs que de ces personnes ou de ces organismes. les forces armées des Etats-Unis prendront toutes mesures pratiques nécessaires pour éviter d'acheter des francs qui auraient été acquis par des voies non officielles.
2- Les francs acquis par les forces armées des Etats -Unis ne peuvent être utilisés que pour :
a) la solde des troupes et du personnel sous statut militaire, l'échange de monnaies étrangères présentées par ces troupes ou ce personnel, le règlement d'effets en dollars présentés par ces troupes ou ce personnel conformément aux errements en vigueur dans les forces armées des Etats-Unis.

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946

b) l'achat de produits et services. Dans ce dernier cas, ces francs seront offerts et acceptés pour le paiement de produits et services non couverts par l'aide réciproque au cours auquel ils auront été achetés et la valeur en dollars des produits et services sera établie en tenant compte du taux de change en vigueur au moment où ils auront effectivement été fournis.

3- Les autorités compétentes américaines et françaises s'entendront pour déterminer les cas dans lesquels les forces armées

des Etats-Unis devront, pour se conformer aux désirs du Gouvernement français, passer, pour se procurer des produits

ou services en France continentale (Corse incluse) et dans les territoires français d'outre-mer, par l'intermédiaire d'organismes appropriés désignés par le Gouvernement français, et les

cas dans lesquels les forces armées des Etats-Unis pourront recourir à des achats directs.

Les produits et services que les forces armées des Etats-

Unis se sont procurés avant la cessation de l'aide réciproque, et qui n'étaient pas susceptibles de bénéficier de cette aide

réciproque, ainsi que les produits ou services qu'elles se sont

procurés depuis la fin de l'aide réciproque et se procureront

à l'avenir, seront payés sur présentation, par les autorités françaises, de documents appropriés, établis dans une forme susceptible de satisfaire les forces armées des Etats-Unis et

déterminée conformément aux arrangements intervenus ou à

intervenir à cet effet entre elles et les autorités françaises.

4-

En France continentale (Corse incluse) et dans les terri-

toires français d'outre-Mer les francs qui n'ont pas été utili-

sés peuvent être, à tout moment, reversés au Gouvernement

français par les forces armées des Etats-Unis et seront rachetés par le Gouvernement français contre dollars au taux auquel ils auront été acquis par ces dernières, étant entendu que l'obligation de rachat du Gouvernement français sera limitée au montant des francs qui auront été acquis contre dollars le 26 Décembre 1945 ou depuis lors par les forces armées des Etats- Unis, déduction faite du montant des francs

utilisés par les forces armées des Etats-Unis pour l'achat de

produits et services.

5-

Pour se conformer au désir exprimé par le Gouvernement

français, les forces armées des Etats-Unis ne vendront de

produits de rebut, en France continentale ( Corse incluse ) ou dans les territoires français d'outre-mer, que par l'inter-

médiaire d'organismes français désignés par les autorités

françaises, sous réserve des exceptions dont il pourra être

convenu. Les produits de rebut ainsi vendus aux organismes

français compétents seront réglés en dollars des Etats-Unis

par les autorités françaises.

6-

Les forces armées des Etats-Unis continueront à tenir leurs

comptes de telle sorte que les autorités françaises compétentes reçoivent chaque mois, par l'intermédiaire du représentant de

4241

4242

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

la Trésorerie américaine en France, une analyse de l'emploi

des francs mis à la disposition des forces armées des Etats-

Unis. Des comptes rendus officiels seront fournis trimestri-

ellement à cet égard , par les Autorités américaines.

7-

Pour autant qu'elles ne sont pas en contradiction avec le

présent memorandum, les dispositions des autres accords ou

arrangements visés ci -dessus restent pleinement en vigueur./.

Fait en double exemplaire à Washington, le

en français

et en anglais, les deux exemplaires faisant également foi.

Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique. FRED M. VINSON GEORGE J RICHARDS , W. L. CLAYTON
Pour le Gouvernement provisoire de la République française. H BONNET

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946
DECLARATION DU GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE ET DU GOUVERNEMENT PROVISOIRE DE LA REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE SUR LA POLITIQUE COMMERCIALE ET DIVERSES QUESTIONS ANNEXES.
Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et le Gouvernement provisoire de la République française , après une étude approfondie des problèmes de politique commerciale et de diverses questions annexes, ont constaté leur complet accord sur les principes généraux qu'ils souhaitent mettre en oeuvre en vue de la suppression des entraves au commerce international et de l'expansion des échanges internationaux qu'ils jugent indispensables à la prospérité du monde et à l'établissement d'une paix durable.
Le Gouvernement français a porté à la connaissance du Gouvernement des Etats -Unis les mesures qu'il a prises et celles qu'il a l'intention d'adopter afin de créer les conditions nécessaires pour atteindre cet objectif commun. Le Gouvernement français a fait également connaître au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis le Plan de Reconstruction et de Modernisation de l'économie française. Conformément aux lettres échangées le 8 novembre 1945 , les deux gouvernements ont procédé à l'examen de ce plan et ont reconnu d'un commun accord que la réalisation des objectifs qui y sont fixés mettrait la France en mesure de s'associer pleinement aux efforts poursuivis en vue d'assurer le développement de l'économie mondiale.
Les deux gouvernements ont étudié les problèmes que pose l'organisation future des échanges internationaux et examiné un certain nombre de questions particulières ayant trait à la politique commerciale et à divers sujets qui les intéressent ainsi que d'autres pays. La déclaration suivante des deux gouvernements expose les arrangements auxquels ils sont parvenus.
I
Les deux gouvernements sont en complet accord, pour tous les points importants, sur les principes inscrits dans les " Propositions à soumettre à une Conférence Internationale sur le Commerce et l'Emploi " qui ont été communiquées par le Gouvernement des Etats- Unis au Gouvernement français. Ils ont, en conséquence, décidé de poursuivre leurs conversations et de se concerter avec les pays animés des mêmes intentions, afin d'établir sur ces principes la Charte de l'Organisation du Commerce International. Les deux gouvernements estiment que la conclusion préalable d'accords entre les principales nations commerçantes du monde en vue de la réduction substantielle des droits de douanes et autres entraves au commerce et de l'élimination des arrangements discriminatoires contribuerait largement au succès de la Conférence mondiale.
II
Le Gouvernement français a fait savoir au Gouvernement des EtatsUnis qu'il avait pris les décisions suivantes :
(a) Un nouveau tarif douanier français est actuellement en préparation qui ne comportera que des droits ad valorem et qui n'accroitra

4243

4244

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
pas le degré de protection d'avant guerre. Ce nouveau tarif constituera la base sur laquelle les réductions réciproques seront négociées au cours de la prochaine conférence multilatérale.
(b) Le Gouvernement français a renoncé définitivement à la politique d'avant guerre qui consistait à protéger la production française à l'aide de contingents d'importation.
(c) Le Gouvernement français a rappelé que les procédés de péréquation des prix, qu'il avait dû employer provisoirement pour faciliter les exportations pendant la période qui a précédé l'alignement du franc, avaient été abandonnés.
III
Le Gouvernement français a précisé qu'il est dans l'obligation d'exercer un contrôle des importations sous forme d'un programme d'importations ; mais ce contrôle ne sera appliqué qu'aussi longtemps qu'il sera nécessaire pour sauvegarder l'équilibre de la balance des comptes et assurer l'exécution méthodique du Plan de Reconstruction et de Modernisation. La délivrance par le Gouvernement français des licences d'importation, dans les limites du programme, sera faite sans discrimination entre les différentes sources étrangères d'approvisionnement dès que la France possédera , ou sera en mesure d'acquérir, un montant de devises libres tel qu'elle ne soit plus contrainte de procéder à ses achats dans les limites d'accords bilatéraux, commerciaux et financiers.
IV
Les deux gouvernements sont parvenus à un accord qui leur donne mutuellement satisfaction sur le retour au commerce privé pour les échanges entre la France et les Etats-Unis. Le Gouvernement français a déjà rendu au commerce privé une grande partie des importations de la France et des colonies françaises et continuera à réduire l'intervention gouvernementale dans ses achats extérieurs.
Les achats effectués par le Gouvernement français aux Etats-Unis se limiteront au matériel d'équipement destiné aux services publics. Les services d'achats officiels continueront temporairement à acheter un nombre restreint d'articles parmi lesquels les produits alimentaires déficitaires, l'acier, le bois , les pneumatiques et certains produits médicaux.
A titre provisoire , une partie des importations françaises sera effectuée par des associations d'acheteurs privés (groupements ) jusqu'à ce que soient résolues les difficultés de chargement , d'expédition et de transport des fournitures essentielles et de leur distribution en France.
Le Conseil français des Approvisionnements aux Etats-Unis poursuivra son activité sur une base réduite et se consacrera principalement à la liquidation des commandes en cours et aux achats gouvernementaux indiqués ci -dessus. Il limitera ses achats aux fournitures correspondant aux besoins civils essentiels et utilisera au maximum les voies normales du commerce. Il appliquera des méthodes conformes aux usages commerciaux et cessera ses opérations dès que ce sera possible.

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946
V
Les deux Gouvernements sont d'accord pour reconnaître qu'une augmentation substantielle des exportations françaises aux Etats-Unis présenterait d'importants avantages pour chacun des deux pays. Ils ont examiné certaines lois et règlements en vigueur aux Etats- Unis qui, de l'avis du Gouvernement français, tendent à entraver indûment l'importation des produits français aux Etats-Unis. Ils ont porté une attention spéciale à la législation en matière de marques de fabrique et de droits d'auteur, à la question de l'emploi des appellations d'origine, au contrôle des prix sur les produits importés et aux méthodes d'évaluation de ceux-ci pour la perception des droits de douane. Les services compétents du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis ont accepté d'examiner avec attention et sympathie les vues du Gouvernement français et d'étudier la possibilité d'apporter des modifications aux règles administratives ou de recommander au Congrès la revision de la législation existante .
VI
Dans le cas où les mêmes mesures seraient adoptées par d'autres importantes nations industrielles, chacun des deux gouvernements s'est engagé à accorder, sur la base de la réciprocité, aux ressortissants de l'autre le droit d'utiliser librement et sans redevances tous les brevets appartenant précédemment à des allemands qui sont tombés en sa pleine possession, sous la seule réserve des droits qui ont déjà été concédés sur ces brevets. Les deux gouvernements estiment que l'adoption généralisée de cette politique aura pour effet de faire disparaître une importante entrave au commerce international et apportera une contribution substantielle au développement du commerce mondial. Conformément à ces objectifs, ils ont décidé d'examiner ultérieurement en commun d'autres questions relatives aux brevets allemands.
VII
Le Gouvernement français accordera aux ressortissants américains dont les biens en France ont subi des dommages par suite de la guerre, une réparation égale à celle assurée aux ressortissants français pour des pertes de même nature et d'une même étendue. Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis a informé le Gouvernement français que l'égalité de traitement est accordée aux ressortissants français et américains en ce qui concerne la réparation des dommages causés par la guerre à leurs biens aux Etats-Unis.
VIII
Afin de donner une base solide au développement entre les deux pays de relations économiques mutuellement avantageuses, le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis et le Gouvernement français ont décidé d'entreprendre , dès que possible, des négociations en vue de la conclusion, sur des bases générales et modernes, d'un Traité d'établissement, de commerce et de navigation./.

4245

4246

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Fait à Washington, en double exemplaire, ce 28 Mai 1946, en français et en anglais , les deux textes faisant également foi .
Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique JAMES F BYRNES
Pour le Gouvernement provisoire de la République française. LÉON BLUM

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946
ARRANGEMENT ENTRE LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE ET LE GOUVERNEMENT PROVISOIRE DE LA REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE AU SUJET DE LA PROJECTION DES FILMS AMERICAINS EN FRANCE
Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et le Gouvernement provisoire de la République française, s'inspirant de leur accord général en date de ce jour sur la politique commerciale et tenant spécialement compte des changements provoqués par la guerre, ont réexaminé certains problèmes relatifs à la projection en France de films doublés américains. Comme suite à ces conversations, le Gouvernement français a informé le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis qu'il allait prendre les mesures suivantes applicables à l'ensemble du territoire douanier français :
A partir du Ier juillet 1946, toutes dispositions antérieures concernant le nombre de films doublés susceptibles d'être projetés en France seront abandonnées . A la même date , sera appliqué un régime dit de "contingentement à l'écran" destiné à faciliter, par une protection temporaire, la reconstruction de l'industrie française du film éprouvée par la désorganisation due à l'occupation de la France par l'ennemi. Sous ce régime, les propriétaires de salles de cinéma seront tenus de projeter, chaque trimestre, pendant un certain nombre de semaines, des films de production française. Au cours des autres semaines, ils pourront librement projeter soit des films étrangers, soit des films français .
A partir du Ier juillet 1946 , le contingent à l'écran réservé aux films français sera au maximum de quatre semaines par trimestre.
Ce contingent sera maintenu sur la base de quatre semaines par trimestre à moins qu'il ne soit réduit automatiquement à trois semaines par trimestre conformément à la règle suivante :
Si, pendant une période de deux ans prenant fin soit le 30 juin 1948, soit le 30 juin d'une des années suivantes, la production française a occupé, parmi les films projetés dans les salles de spectacle en France, une place égale ou supérieure à une moyenne de cinq semaines par trimestre, le contingent sera, à partir du Ier octobre suivant l'expiration de ladite période de deux ans, automatiquement réduit à trois semaines par trimestre.
Si, conformément à la formule ci -dessus, le contingent à l'écran est réduit à trois semaines par trimestre, ce régime sera maintenu sur cette base à moins qu'il ne vienne à prendre automatiquement fin conformément à la règle suivante :
Si, au cours d'une période quelconque de deux ans prenant fin un 30 septembre et pendant le cours total de laquelle a été appliqué un contingent de trois semaines par trimestre, la production française a occupé, parmi les films projetés dans les salles de spectacle en France, une place égale ou supérieure à une moyenne de cinq semaines par trimestre, le régime du contingentement sera complètement abandonné à partir du Ier janvier suivant l'expiration de la période de deux ans envisagée.

4247

4248

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
Le Gouvernement français s'est déclaré d'accord pour que, pendant la période d'application du contingentement à l'écran, aucune restriction, de quelque nature que ce soit, ne soit apportée à l'importation en France de films américains et pour que la projection en France de ces films ne subisse d'autres limitations que celle du contingentement à l'écran ou celles qui viseraient également les films français. Si, conformément aux dispositions ci- dessus, le contingentement à l'écran est supprimé, il n'y aura dès lors aucune restriction à l'importation en France de films amèricains et aucune autre limitation à la projection en France de ces films que celles qui viseraient également les films français.
Le Gouvernement des Etats- Unis constate avec satisfaction qu'en prenant ces nouvelles mesures, le Gouvernement français envisage l'élimination complète de toute protection pour le moment où l'industrie française du film aura recouvré son pouvoir de concurrence.
Si, de l'avis de l'un des deux gouvernements, ces nouvelles dispositions cessent, à un moment quelconque, de répondre aux conditions prévalant alors dans l'industrie française du film ou sur le marché français du film, chaque gouvernement se réserve le droit de demander à l'autre d'entreprendre des négociations en vue de leur modification ou de leur annulation. Si, à l'expiration d'un délai de six mois à compter de la date d'une telle demande, ces négociations n'ont pas abouti à une conclusion satisfaisante pour les deux gouvernements , les dispositions de l'accord commercial réciproque alors en vigueur seront applicables.
Fait à Washington, en double exemplaire, ce 28 mai 1946 ; en français et en anglais, les deux textes faisant également foi.
Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique JAMES F BYRNES
Pour le Gouvernement Provisoire de la République Française. LÉON BLUM
Interpretation of paragraph 6 (i ) of the " Memorandum of Understanding between the United States and France"
MAY 28, 1946
Le paragraphe VI i ) du "Memorandum" d'accord entre le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis et le Gouvernement Francais est ainsi concu :
"Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis s'engage a mettre a la disposition du Gouvernement Francais une fraction de sa part dans les navires de surface pris a l'Allemagne et au Japon, lorsque ces navires viendront a etre en excedent des besoins des Etats-Unis et ne seront plus necessaires pour aucune operation liee a l'application des capitulations allemande et japonaise."

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 28, 1946

Les autorites competentes des Etats-Unis examinent actuellement les conditions dans lesquelles ces navires peuvent etre legalement cedes a une autre puissance. Dans ces conditions, il est entendu par les deux parties signataires du "Memorandum " susvise que la phrase " s'engage a mettre a la disposition du Gouvernement francais "dans le paragraphe cite plus haut ne doit pas etre comprise comme un engagement que les navires en question seront cedes sans compensation.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES
W. L. CLAYTON.

FOR THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC H BONNET

4249

Jan. 21 , Oct. 8, 1946 61 STAT. ] LEBANON- POSTAL MONEY ORDERS- Mar. 15 , 1947

4251

Convention between the United States of America and Lebanon respecting J1a9n4u6a, raynd21 M, aOcrtcohbe1r5,8,

the exchange of postal money orders . Signed at Washington January

1947

21, 1946, and at Beyrouth March 15, 1947; and amendments signed IT. I. A. S. 1984]

at Washington October 8, 1946, and at Beyrouth March 15 , 1947;

entered into force July 1, 1947.

CONVENTION FOR
THE EXCHANGE OF POSTAL MONEY ORDERS BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND
REPUBLIQUE LIBANAISE

4252

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

THE CONVENTION FOR EX- POUR L'ECHANGE DES MAN-

CHANGE OF POSTAL MONEY ORDERS BETWEEN THE

DATS-POSTE ENTRE L'OF. FICE POSTAL DES ETATS-

POSTAL ADMINISTRATION UNIS D'AMERIQUE D'UNE

OF THE UNITED STATES OF PART, ET L'OFFICE POSTAL

AMERICA ON THE ONE DE LA REPUBLIQUE LI-

HAND AND THE POSTAL BANAISE D'AUTRE PART.

ADMINISTRATION OF THE

REPUBLIC OF LEBANON ON

THE OTHER HAND .

The Government of the United Le Gourvernement Fédéral des States of America and the Gov- Etats-Unis d'Amérique et le Gour-

ernment of the Republic of Leb- vernement de la République Lianon desiring to facilitate the banaise étant désireux de faciliter transmission of funds between the la transmission des fonds entre les

United States of America and the Etats-Unis d'Amérique et la Ré-

Republic of Lebanon by means of publique Libanaise par le moyen money orders , have decided to de mandats de poste, et de con-

conclude an agreement to this clure un arrangement à ces fins.

effect .

The undersigned , duly author- Les Soussignés dûment autorisés

ized by their respective Govern- par leur gourvernement respectif ments, are in agreement on the se sont mis d'accord sue les articles

following articles:

suivantes:

ARTICLE I.

ARTICLE I.

"The United States of America".

In this convention the expres- Dans cette convention l'expression "The United States of Amer- sion ""EEtats-Unis d'Amérique" ica" includes the Continental comprend les territoires de la United States , Alaska, the Islands Fédération des Etats - Unis

of Guam, Hawaii , Puerto Rico, d'Amérique, de l'Alaska, des Iles Virgin Islands and Tutuila Guam, Hawaii, Porto Rico , Vier-

Republic of Leba- (Samoa) . aon" .

The

expression " Re- ges et Tutuila (Samoa) .

L'ex-

public of Lebanon" includes the pression "République Libanaise"

territories under the jurisdiction comprend tous les territoires res-

of Lebanon.

sortissant à ce pays.

"The Central Administration".

The expression "The Central Les expressions "l'Administra-

Administration" or " The Central tion Centrale" ou "les Adminis-

Administrations" indicate, in re- trations Centrales" désignent en gard to the United States of ce qui touche les Etats-Unis d'

America, the Post Office Depart- Amérique: The Post Office De-

ment, Division of Money Orders , partment, Division of Money Washington, D. C. , and in regard Orders, Washington, D. C. , en

61 STAT. ] LEBANON-POSTAL MONEY ORDERS- Jan. 21, Oct. 8, 1946 Mar. 15, 1947

4253

to the Republic of Lebanon, the ce qui regarde la République General Administration of Posts Libanaise, la Direction Générale

and Telegraphs at Beyrouth, Leb- des Postes et des Télégraphes à

anon.

Beyrouth, Liban .

ARTICLE II.

ARTICLE II .

Establishment of exA regular exchange of postal Un échange régulier de mandats- change of postal mon-
money orders is established be- poste est créé entre les Etats- ey orders.

tween the United States of America Unis d'Amérique d'une part , et

on the one hand and the Republic la République Libanaise d'autre of Lebanon on the other hand . part.

ARTICLE III .

ARTICLE III.

The service of postal money Le service des mandats-poste

orders between said countries will entre les pays dénommés sera ex-

be carried out exclusively through clusivement exécuté par l'intérme-

the intermediary of Exchange Of- diaire de bureaux d'échange. Le fices. The Exchange Office for bureau d'échange des Etats-Unis

the United States of America is d'Amérique est New York ; celui

New York; that for the Republic de la République Libanaise est

of Lebanon is Beyrouth.

Beyrouth .

Exchange Offices.

ARTICLE IV.

ARTICLE IV .

The amount of each remittance will be expressed for the money orders issued in the United States

Le montant de chaque titre sera exprimé pour les mandats émis aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique , en

Conversion into money of country of desPtoisnta,tpi.on42. 70.

of America, in Lebanon pounds livres et piastres Libanaise ; pour

and piastres ; for those issued in ceux émis en Libanaiseen dollars

Lebanon, in American dollars and et cents américains.

cents. The conversion into the money

La conversion en monnaie du

of the country of destination will pays de destination sera opérée par be done by the office (exchange les bureaux (bureaux d'échange ou office or issuing office, as the case bureaux émetteurs suivant le cas) may be) under the jurisdiction of ressortissant à l'Administration the Central Administration of the centrale du pays d'origine ; celle-ci country of origin. The latter will fixera le taux de conversion prafix the rate of exchange used by tiqué par ses propres bureaux. its own offices.

In conversion, fractions of cents Dans la conversion, les fractions

or of Lebanon piastres will be dis- de cent ou de piastres Libanaise,

regarded .

seront negligées.

ARTICLE V.

ARTICLE V.

Each Central Administration Chacune des Administrations
has the right to establish, in agree- Centrales aura la faculté de fixer, ment with the other, the maxi- d'accord avec sa correspondante, mum amount of issue for each le chiffre maximum d'émission de

Maximum amount of issue for each order.

order. This amount must not ex- chaque mandat. Ce chiffre ne

ceed two hundred (200 ) dollars pourra dépasser deux cents (200) 95347 °-50-- PT. IV- -58

4254

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

for orders issued in the Republic dollars pour les mandats émis dans of Lebanon or $ 100 for orders la République Libanaise ou quatre

issued in the United States of cent quarante (440 livres Libanaise

America.

pour ceux émis aux Etats-Unis

d'Amerique .

Fees, etc. Exemptions.

ARTICLE VI .

ARTICLE VI.

Each Central Administration Chacune des administrations

has the right to change according centrales aura le droit de modifier to circumstances, the fees paid by selon les circonstances le droit remitters of postal money orders proportionnel de commission payissued by the offices under its juris- able par les expéditeurs des mandiction, on condition that it will dats-poste émis par les bureaux de inform the other Central Admin- son ressort a condition qu'elle

istration of its changes. The fees fasse connaître son tarif à l'admicollected shall belong to the Ad- nistration centrale correspondante. ministration of origin . The latter Le droit de commission apparwill allow to the paying Adminis- tiendra à l'office d'origine. tration a commission of one half Ce dernier bonifiera à l'office qui

of one per cent ( % ) on the total acquittera ces mandats une com-

amount of orders paid . No allow- mission d'un demi pour cent

ance will be made for money ( %) du montant total des man-

orders issued without charge.

dats payés ; aucune bonification

ne sera allouée pour les mandats

émis en franchise de droits .

The amounts of orders drawn Les titres émis au profit des

in favor of prisoners of war, or prisonniers de guerre ou envoyés

sent by them , are exempt from par eux seront exempts de toutes

all charges.

taxes.

ARTICLE VII.

ARTICLE VII.

Remitter and payee names, etc.

The remitter of a postal money

L'expediteur d'un mandat-posts

order shall be required to furnish, sera tenu de fournir, si possible ,

if possible, the surname and the le nom et le ou les prénoms ou au

first name or names, or at least moins l'initiale d'un prénom de

the initials of the first name of the l'expéditeur et du destinataire ou

remitter and payee , or the name le nom et l'adresse de la maison and address of the dispatching or de commerce ou de la compagnie receiving business firm or com- expéditrice ou destinataire. Ce-

pany. But if the aforesaid names pendant, si le ou les prénoms ou

or initials cannot be given, the l'initiale susmentionnée ne peuvent

money order may nevertheless be être fournis, le titre est néanmoins issued at the risk of the remitter. émis aux risques de l'expediteur.

ARTICLE VIII .

ARTICLE VIII.

Lost money order.

If a money order is lost a dupli- Si un titre est perdu ou non

cate will be issued on written parvenu, un duplicata sera délivré request of the remitter or payee, sur demande écrite du destinacontaining all the necessary infor- taire, contenant tous les renseimation, and addressed to the Cen- gnements nécessaires, adressée à

61 STAT.] LEBANON-POSTAL MONEY ORDERS- Jan. 21 , Oct. 8, 1946 Mar. 15, 1947

4255

tral Administration of the country l'administration centrale du pays

on which drawn. Unless there is dans lequel le titre primitif est

reason to believe that the order payable. Sauf au cas ou ce titre

was lost in transit through the serait supposé avoir été perdu en

mails, the Administration issuing cours de transmission dans le

the duplicate has the right to col- service postal, l'administration

lect the same fee as that provided centrale qui délivrera le duplicata

by its domestic regulations .

sera autorisée de ce fait à percevoir les mêmes droits que ceux prévus

par sa législation intérieure .

ARTICLE IX .

ARTICLE IX .

A request for correction of Toute demande tendant soit à Request for correction, etc.
name, or change of address of the rectifier le nom, soit à modifier payee, or for stoppage of payment l'adresse du destinataire, soit à
of an order, or for refund of the suspendre le payement d'un titre, money to the remitter, must be soit enfin à en obtenir le rem-

addressed by the remitter to the boursement au profit de l'expédi-

Central Administration of the teur, devra être adressée par ce country of issue of the money dernier à l'administration centrale

order .

du pays d'origine du mandat.

ARTICLE X.

ARTICLE X.

In no event shall repayment of En tout cas, le remboursement Authorization required for repayment.
a money order be effected without d'un mandat ne pourra avoir lieu a statement from the Central Ad- que sur la déclaration de l'admiministration of the country of des- nistration centrale du pays où le tination to the effect that the titre était payable, que le mandat money order has not been paid n'a pas été payé et que le remand that repayment is authorized . boursement est autorisé.

ARTICLE XI.

ARTICLE XI.

The period of validity of a La durée de validité d'un manmoney order is fixed at twelve dat est fixée à douze mois non
months, not including the month compris celui de l'émission ; à of issue. After the expiration of l'expiration de cette période le said period the amount of orders montant des titres non payés est not paid is returned to the Central reversé à l'administration cenAdministration of origin, which trale d'origine qui en dispose will dispose of them according to suivant sa propre législation. its own regulations.

Period of validity.

ARTICLE XII.

ARTICLE XII.

The orders issued in one country Les titres émis d'un pays sur

on the other are subject to the l'autre seront soumis, en ce qui regulations of the country of concerne l'émission aux réglements origin as concerns their issue and en vigueur dans le pays d'origine, to the laws of the country of desti- et en ce qui touche le payement à nation as concerns their payment . la législation du pays de destina-
tion .

Regulations.

4256

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ARTICLE XIII .

ARTICLE XIII.

Certification.

The exchange office at Beyrouth Le bureau d'échange de Bey-

will certify to the exchange office routh communiquera au bureau at New York the particulars of the d'échange de New-York le détail

money orders drawn for payment des sommes encaissées en vue de

in the United States of America, leur payement aux Etats -Unis

and the New York Office will cer- d'Amérique ; celui, de New-York

tify to the exchange office at transmettra au bureau d'échange

Beyrouth the orders drawn for pay- de Beyrouth le détail des sommes

ment in the Republic of Lebanon . encaissées en vue de leur payement

Money order advice lists.

dans la République Libanaise. The money order advice lists Les listes d'avis employées à cet

Post, pp. 4264, 4265.

used for that purpose shall be effet seront conformes au modéle similar to Forms A and B, at- "A" and "B" annexé. tached hereto .

In order to prevent the incon- En vue de prévenir les incon-

venience resulting from the loss of vénients résultant de la perte one of these lists, each office will d'une de ces listes, chaque bureau send with each list a duplicate of transmettra, en même temps que

the preceding list .

chaque liste, un duplicata de la liste précédente.

Order of entry on lists.

ARTICLE XIV. The orders will be entered in

ARTICLE XIV . Les mandats seront enregistrés

consecutive order in the lists by sur les listes suivant une série

each exchange office, beginning annuelle spéciale pour chaque buwith No. 1 on July 1st of each reau d'échange commençant le

year.

1er Juillet, par le No. 1 .

"International num-

bers."

The numbers assigned to orders Le numéro affecté à un mandat

in the lists are considered " inter- sur la liste sera considéré comme

national numbers."

"numéro international. "

The lists will likewise be num- Les listes seront ellesmêmes

bered serially each year beginning numérotées suivant une série an-

with No. 1 on July 1st.

nuelle commençant, le 1er Juillet,

par le numéro 1 .

ARTICLE XV.

ARTICLE XV.

Missing list of money orders.

Each missing list of money

Toute liste d'avis manquante

orders must be immediately devra être immédiatement

claimed by the exchange office of réclamée par le bureau d'échange destination. The exchange office destinataire. Le bureau d'échange of origin will transmit without expéditeur devra alors transmettre delay to the other exchange office sans délai au bureau d'échange a duly certified copy of each list. correspondant une copie dûment
certifiée de cette liste.

ARTICLE XVI .

ARTICLE XVI.

Verification of advice list, etc.

Each advice list shall be care-

Chaque liste d'avis devra être

fully verified by the exchange soigneusement vérifiée par le bu-

office of destination and corrected reau d'échange destinataire et cor-

Jan. 21 , Oct. 8, 1946 61 STAT. ] LEBANON- POSTAL MONEY ORDERS- Mar. 15, 1947

4257

in cases of simple errors . The rigée en cas d'erreurs manifestes. details of correction will be com- Le détail des corrections sera com-

municated to the exchange office muniqué au bureau d'échange

of origin.

expéditeur .

If a list contains other irregulari- Si une liste comporte d'autres ties, the exchange office of destina- irrégularités, le bureau d'échange tion shall ask for information from destinataire demandera des ren-

the exchange office of origin, which seignements au bureau d'échange shall furnish this information in expéditeur qui devra les fournir the shortest possible time. In dans le plus bref délai possible. such cases the issue of inland Dans ce cas, l'émission du titre

orders drawn on the items subject intérieur faisant l'objet de la

to such inquiries will be suspended demande sera suspendue jusqu'à

until correction

régularisation .

ARTICLE XVII.

ARTICLE XVII .

On receipt of a list at the exchange office of destination, after verification, said office shall reissue new orders in favor of the payees for amounts specified in

Dés l'arrivée d'une lists d'avis au bureau d'échange destinataire, celui-ci après vérification , établira au profit des bénéficiaires les titres dont le montant est égal aux

Reissuance of new orders, etc.

the lists, or their equivalents in the sommes spécifiées dans la liste ; money of the country of destina- il les transmettra , soit aux destina-

tion, and shall transmit them to taires, soit aux bureaux payeurs, the payees or to the paying offices selon la réglementation en vigueur in accordance with the regulations dans l'office destinataire.

in force in the country of destination.

ARTICLE XVIII .

ARTICLE XVIII .

The Republic of Lebanon may L'office postal Libanaise pourra excAhrarnagnegeofmmeonntesyfoorr exchange, through the interme- échanger par l'intermédiaire de ders. diary of the Postal Administration l'office Américain, des mandats of the United States, postal money poste avec les pays participant au orders with the countries which service des mandats poste avec les have money order service with the Etats-Unis d'Amérique. Ce serUnited States of America. This vice sera soumis aux dispositions service will be subject to special particuliéres ci-aprés : arrangements as follows:

(a) The exchange office at Bey- (a) Le bureau d'échange de

routh will certify the amount of Beyrouth notifiera le montant de

each "through" order to the chaque titre en transit au bureau exchange office at New York, d'échange de New York qui le which will in turn certify it to notifiera à son tour à l'office

the country of payment.

intéressé .

(b) The maximum amount of (b) Le montant maximum de

each order must not exceed the chaque titre ne devra pas être

maximum fixed in the agreement supérieur à celui fixé dans les between the United States of relations entre les Etats-Unis

America and the country of desti- d'Amérique et le pays de destina-

nation.

tion.

4258 Ante, p. 4254.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

(c) The particulars of such (c) Les indications relatives à

orders shall be entered in red ink cette catégorie de titre devront

at the end of each advice list figurer à l'encre rouge à la fin de

certified to NNeeww YYoorrkk,, oorr on chacune des listes d'avis ordi-

special lists, and the total amounts naires notifiées à New York ou

of such orders will be included in sur des listes spéciales et le total

the total of the ordinary lists.

du montant de ces titres sera

compris dans le total des listes ordinaires .

(d) The name and address of (d) Le nom et l'adresse du

the payee of a "through" order, as bénéficiaire de mandat-poste en

well as the name of the city and transit ainsi que le nom de la

country of destination must be as ville et du pays destinataire de-

complete as possible.

vront être aussi complets que pos-

sible.

(e) The Lebanon Postal Admin- (e) L'office postal Libanaise alistration will allow to the Postal louera á l'office Américain , pour Administration of the United les mandats poste en transit, une

States on the "through" money bonification égale à celle dont orders, a commission equal to sont passibles les mandats pay-

that allowed on orders payable in ables aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique the United States of America. (voir Article VI) . Le Bureau (See Article VI) . The American d'échange Américain créditera Central Administration will credit l'office du lieu du payement d'une

the country of payment with a commission égale à celle prévue commission equal to that provided dans les relations entre cet office in agreements between that et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique et

country and the United States of déduira du montant un titre un America, and will deduct from the droit de commission fixé par amount of the order a fee fixed by l'administration centrale Amérithe American Central Adminis- caine. tration.

(f) In case of repayment to the (f) Au cas de remboursement à

remitter of the amount of a l'expéditeur du montant d'un "through" money order, the inter- mandat en transit, le droit de

mediary country shall retain the commission prélevé par l'office

fee collected .

intermédiaire restera acquis à

celui-ci.

The Postal Administration of L'Office Américain communi-

the United States shall com- quera à la Direction Générale des municate to the General Admin- Postes et Télégraphes à Beyrouth istration of Posts and Telegraphs les noms des pays avec lesquels il at Beyrouth, the names of the échange des mandats-poste , le countries with which it exchanges montant maximum des titres dans postal money orders , the maximum chaque relation et les droits de amount of the orders in each case, commission à déduire du montant and the fees to be deducted from de chaque titre . the amount of each remittance .

Jan. 21 , Oct. 8, 1946 61 STAT.] LEBANON- POSTAL MONEY ORDERS- Mar. 15, 1947

4259

ARTICLE XIX .

ARTICLE XIX.

At the end of each quarter each A la fin de chaque trimestre, Central Administration will pre- chacune des administrations cenpare and transmit to the other a trales établira et transmettra à statement of money orders issued l'autre un relevé des mandats-

meQnutasrbtyerCelnytrsatlaAtdeministrations.

in the other country and which are poste émis par les bureaux ressortis-

not paid at the expiration of sant a sa correspondante qui , non twelve months following the month payés à l'expiration du délai de of issue, and therefore became douze mois faisant suite au mois de

void during the preceding quarter l'émission , seront périmés au cours

(see appendix C) ; should there be du trimestre écoulé (voir appendice no such orders , a statement C) . Le cas échéant, un relevé

marked "no void orders " shall be " Néant" sera transmis.

transmitted.

ARTICLE XX.

ARTICLE XX.

The General Administration of

La Direction Générale des Postes

Quarterly accounts to U. S. from General

Posts and Telegraphs at Beyrouth, et Télégraphes à Beyrouth Administration at Beyrouth.

will mail to the Third Assistant adressera à The Third Assistant

Postmaster General , Division of Postmaster General, Division of

Money Orders , Washington, D. C. , Money Orders , Washington, D. C. ,

as soon as possible after the end of aussitôt que possible aprés la fin

each quarter an account, in dupli- de chaque trimestre, et en double

cate, containing the following exemplaire un compte comprenant

items :

les articles auivants:

a. To the credit of the United States:

a. au crédit des Etats-Unis:

1. The total amount of advice

1. Le total des listes d'avis

lists sent by the Beyrouth ex- envoyées par le bureau d'échange

change office during the current de Beyrouth dans le courant du

quarter, less the amount of invalid trimestre , diminué du montant des orders and the orders which the mandats périmés, ou annulés , ou

Lebanon Republic has been author- dont le remboursement a été

ized to repay during the same autorisé dans la République Li-

period .

banaise pendant la meme période.

2. The commission of 2 % on

2. La bonification de ½ pour

the amount of money orders paid cent sur le montant des mandats

in the United States.

payés aux Etats-Unis .

b. To the credit of the Lebanon b. au crédit de la République

Republic :

Libanaise :

1. The total of advice lists

1. Le total des listes envoyées

sent by the New York Exchange par le bureau d'échange de New

Office in the course of the quarter, York dans le courant du trimestre, less the amount of invalid orders , diminué du montant des mandats

and the orders which the United périmés, ou annulés, ou dont le

4260

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Post, p. 4270.

States has been authorized , during remboursement a été autorisé aux

the same quarter, to repay.

Etats -Unis durant la même

période.

2. The commission of 2 % on

2. La bonification de

pour

the amount of money orders paid cent sur le montant des mandats

in the Lebanon Republic .

payés dans la République Liba-

naise .

c. The balance of the accounts : c. La Balance de ces comptes :

For the establishment of the Pour l'Établissement de cette

said balance, the lesser claim will balance la créance la plus faible be converted into the money of sera convertie en la monnaie de la

the larger claim , by using for the créance la plus forte en prenant base of conversion the average pour base de conversion le cours official rate of exchange in the moyen officiel du change dans le

debtor country during the period pays débiteur pendant la période to which the account relates. à laquelle le compte se rapportera.

The difference finally established Les différences ultérieurement con-

will be included in the first ac- statées seront reprises dans le

count of the following quarter.

premier compte trimestriel à inter-

venir.

This account prepared on a Ce compte, établi sur une

Post, p. 4268. Post, p. 4267.

form similar to the one in Appendix formule analogue à l'appendice E

E shall be accompanied by state- devra être accompagné des relevés : ments :

a. Of advice lists transmitted a. Des listes d'avis transmises

during the quarter in both direc- pendant le trimestre dans les deux

tions (Appendix D)

sens (Appendix D) .

b. Of invalid and repaid money b. Des mandats périmés, an-

orders (Appendix C) .

nulés ou remboursés (Appendix C) .

Acceptance copy of account.

A copy of the account, duly Une copie du compte, dûment accepted, will be returned to the approuvée, sera retournée à la General Administration of Posts Direction Générale des Postes et

and Telegraphes at Beyrouth.

Télégraphes à Beyrouth .

ARTICLE XXI.

ARTICLE XXI.

Payment of provi- If during the quarter the total Lorsqu'au courant du trimessional balance.
amount of the money orders tre, le montant total des mandats

issued by either Administration émis par l'une des Administraexceeds 12,000 gold francs (or the tions correspondantes dépassera equivalent thereof) , the orders de douze mille ( 12,000 ) francs-or

issued by the other Central Ad- celui des titres émis par l'autre, ministration, the creditor country l'administration centrale crédishall have the right to ask the trice aura le droit de demander à debtor Central Administration for l'administration centrale débitrice

payment of a provisional balance le versement d'un solde de pro-

amounting to three-quarters of the vision jusqu'à concurrence des sum due. This payment shall be trois-quarts de la crèance . Ce

effected within eight days follow- paiement devra être effectué dans

Jan. 21 , Oct. 8, 1946 61 STAT. ] LEBANON-POSTAL MONEY ORDERS- Mar. 15, 1947

4261

ing the receipt of the request from les huit jours qui suivront le récep-

the creditor country, and verifica- tion de la demande du créditeur,

tion of the amount due.

et verification de la montant du.

In case of nonpayment in the En cas de non versement dans

stipulated time, interest at the le délai sus -indiqué, les sommes

rate of 6% per annum shall be dues porteront intérêts à raison

paid from the date the payment is de 6 % l'an du jour de l'expiration

due until the date of payment.

de ce délai au jour du paiement.

ARTICLE XXII .

ARTICLE XXII .

The balance of the general

La balance d'un compte général

Balance of general account.

account must be paid by the devra être versée par l'office débi-

debtor country not later than 15 teur quinze jours au plus aprés la days after the date on which the date de réception du compte gégeneral account is accepted as néral reconnu exact. correct.
The payment mentioned in this Les versements visés tant au

Post, p. 4270.

article and article XXI , will be présent article qu'à l'article XXI ,

effected by remittance on New seront effectués au moyen de

York or Beyrouth , as the case traites tirées suivant le cas soit sur

may be, in the money of the credi- New York, soit sur Beyrouth, et

tor country, without any loss to dans la monnaie du pays crédi-

the latter.

teur, sans perte pour ce dernier.

Any amount not paid by one of Toute somme restant due par

the Central Administrations to the l'une des Administrations Cen-

Interest on unpaid amounts.

other, after the expiration of six trales à l'autre à l'expiration du

months following the period for délai de six mois qui suivra la which the bill was rendered, will période pour laquelle le compte a

bear interest at the rate of 6% été établi portera intérets à raison

per annum .

de 6%.

ARTICLE XXIII.

ARTICLE XXIII .

Each of the Central Administra- Chacune des Administrations Supplementary measures, etc.
tions is authorized to adopt any Centrales sera autorisée à adopter ,

supplementary measures, not con- pour autant qu'elles ne sont pas

trary to the provisions of this contraires aux dispositions de la Convention, which it may deem présente convention toutes mesu-

advisable to guard more securely res complémentaires qu'elle jugera

against fraud or to improve the convenables en vue d'assurer une

working of the service provided plus grande sécurité contre les

due notice thereof be given to the fraudes, ou une meilleure exécu-

other.

tion du service, pourvu qu'elle

fasse connaître à sa correspon-

dante les dispositions adoptées.

ARTICLE XXIV.

ARTICLE XXIV.

The General Administration of

La Direction Générale des Right to fix maximum amount.

Posts and Telegraphs of the Postes et des Télégraphes de la

Lebanon Republic shall have the République Libanaise aura la faright to fix the maximum amount culté de fixer le montant maximum

4262

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

of money which can be sent in des sommes pouvant être envoyées

any one day by one remitter to the journellement par un expeditéur

same payee in the United States au même destinaire aux Etats-

of America .

Unis d'Amérique .

Right to increase
fees, suspend service, etc.

ARTICLE XXV.

ARTICLE XXV.

Each Central Administration Chacune des Administrations reserves the right to increase the Centrales se réserve la faculté fees or to suspend temporarily d'augmenter le droit de commis-

money order service in case it sion ou même de suspendre temfinds that this service is used by porairement le service des man-

firms or by any one else for re- dats-poste, au cas où elle con-

mitting large amounts, or for staterait que le service est utilisé

speculation purposes.

par des commerçant ou par tout

autre personne pour l'envoi des

sommes exagérées ou pour des manoeuvres spéculatives sur les devises .

The temporary suspension of La suspension temporaire due

money order service may be de- service des mandats-poste pourra

cided unilaterally by each Admin- également être décidée de façon

istration in case of extraordinary unilatérale par chacune des parties

circumstances, of which each Ad- en cause au case de circonstances

ministration is the sole judge.

extraordinaires dont celle-ci de-

In all cases notice of such meurera seule juge . Dans tous les

suspension must be given immedi- cas, avis de cette suspension devra

ately by telegraph to the cor- etre donné immediatement , au

respondent Central Administra- besoin par télégraphe à l'adminis-

tion .

tration centrale correspondante.

Effective date. Duration.

ARTICLE XXVI .

ARTICLE XXVI .

The present Convention shall La présente Convention entrera

take effect on a date fixed by en vigueur à une date fixée d'un common agreement between the commun accord entre l'office LibaPostal Administration of the naise et l'office Américain et

United States and Lebanon and promulguée conformément aux lois promulgated according to the laws respectives des deux pays. of the respective countries . [']
It shall remain in force from Elle courra d'année en année,

year to year, unless one of the jusqu'à ce que l'une des parties

contracting parties gives notice to contractantes ait donne avis à

the other one year in advance of its l'autre, un an à l'avance , de son

intention to terminate it.

intention de la dénoncer.

The provisions of the present Les dispositions de la présente

Convention will continue during Convention continueront, pendant

¹ [Entered into force July 1, 1947, the date agreed upon by exchange of letters of Apr. 16 and June 9, 1947, between the Lebanese Director of Posts and Telecommunications and the United States Third Assistant Postmaster General, respectively . ]

Jan. 21 , Oct. 8, 1946 61 STAT. ] LEBANON-POSTAL MONEY ORDERS- Mar. 15, 1947

the last year to be executed la derniére année, à être fidélement

faithfully and entirely without et entiérement exécutées sans

prejudice to liquidation and pay- préjudice de la liquidation et du

ment of accounts after the expira- payement des comptes aprés l'ex-

tion of this time.

piration de ce terme.

In witness thereof the under- En foi de quoi les soussignés

signed have signed this Conven- ont signé la Convention et y ont

tion and have affixed their seals. apposé leurs sceaux.

Done in duplicate and signed at Fait en double et signé à Wash-

Washington on January 21 , 1946 ington le . ·

· 8·

and Beyrouth on .

· et à Beyrouth le 15 Mars 1947.

4263

[1]
Rober Ht anne Postmaster General of the United States.
Stay .

[2] Poster General of the Republic of Lebanon.

1 [Robert E. Hannegan] 2 [J. Nammour]

4264

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

NBor.dereau FNeou.ille

dlaaaute

ONIDdrno'aite.tgemirei-s- Bureau ndautional ndaul

nld'eoexm-

sion

mandat mandat d'origine pediteur

AAPPENDICE

dB'euercehaaunge

Bdmeemoasirnsddeartesau

a)(1 ux d(2) ans

eptayables
a)(2 ux d(2) ans ·

TDCOAENU.V.XE. RSION

NddAeduosrtmeisnsaetaire Monnaie pdauys

dMteinoutnretant

d.e

..

daeplbe'aumerpcelhaoauynegre

Monnaie dNuo dpaeuys mandat Bureau O. bserva d'eosrtignianteion definitif d'paiemetniton

E.pta.ar.bli
Odf'foirciegine dO. feefsitcienation

(1) Cpoanrtrole
(2)

Jan. 21 , O1c5t,.1947 61 STAT.] LEBANON-POSTAL MONEY ORDERS- Mar. 8, 1946

p(2)leasyrables

Ndumero bordereau

Ddaute bordereau

NInot.er-

Numero

ntdiauttrieonal d'origine

ABPPENDICE

pTl1er9einmdeasnttre ced,psltemoaeuinrrstseiqounent

eBMDmEOAiSRsNDEARTESAU dp.dle'eaorynrisimgeisne

Dd'aetmeission

Bd'uorreigaiune

dBeeusrteianaution

a(1) ux ·
d(1) ans

cmdenqslpet'uuoasleoiiusnyunvzesitaesnt

Montant

(1)Od. f'foirciegine d.2)O(feefsitcienation

4265

4266

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Bordereau des mandats-poste emis en ou dont le remboursement a ete autorise par l' et dont le montant total a ete deduit du credit des .
· dans le compte du . ·

· Trimestre 19

annules

Numero de

Date de la

Numero International

la Liste

Liste

du Titre

Numero
d'origine du titre

Bureau d'emission

Montant

$

C.

Observation

Jan. 21 , Oct. 8, 1946 61 STAT.] LEBANON- POSTAL MONEY ORDERS- Mar. 15, 1947

Ndeusmeros Listes

s1ur · ·

de

a

ADPPENDICE
Bdt-pioersrsetsdmeemraenaduats ·

Nmidslieenuausstintmevdesraarntatostsionaux

TdLioeststaels

mdtp.c-liereeisnmstdeuiassontntrene

T1. r9imestre Observations

dTlieossttaesl

4267

4268

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. APPENDICE E.
Compte general des mandats-poste echanges entre les ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE et la REPUBLIQUE LIBANAISE pendant leTrimestre 19-
CREDIT DES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE CREDIT DE LA REPUBLIQUE LIBANAISE

Montant total des titres emis dans la Republique Libanaise (voir Append. D)
a deduire :
Titres annules ou perimes ou rembourses dans la Republique Libanaise (voir Appendices B & C)

Montant total des titres emis aux Etats-Unis d'Amerique (voir Append. D)
a deduire :
Titres annules ou perimes ou rembourses aux Etats-Unis d'Amerique. (voir Appendices B & C)

Commission de 2 % sur le montant total des mandats payes aux Etats-Unis d'Amerique. Montant Total du credit des Etats-Unis d'Amerique
Conversion au taux de Balance

Commission de %% sur le montant total des mandats payes dans la Republique Libanaise: Montant total due credit de la Republique Libanaise
6666

VDLILCES

Acomptes (.

·

(. .

credit

Solde au

de l'Office de . ·

debit

Dresse a .

A ..

Vu et accepte . le ... (Signature)

le . (Signature)

Jan. 21 , Oct. 8, 1946 61 STAT. ] LEBANON- POSTAL MONEY ORDERS- Mar. 15, 1947

4269

AMENDMENTS TO MONEY ORDER CONVENTION BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF LEBANON

95347°-50-PT. IV-- 59

4270

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Amendments.

Pursuant to authority vested in them , the Postmaster General of the United States of America and the Director of Posts and Telecom-

munications of the Republic of Lebanon have agreed upon the follow-

ing amendments to the Convention for the exchange of international money orders between the two countries.

426A1n.te, pp. 4253 , 4260,

These amendments will become effective when signed and will

supersede ARTICLE IV, ARTICLE XX, (Par. c) and ARTICLE

XXII, (Par. 2) .

ARTICLE IV.

Conversion into currency.
Ante, p. 4253.

The amount of money orders exchanged in both directions will be expressed in American currency. The exchange office at Beyrouth will convert the amount of the money orders issued in Lebanon into

United States dollars and the amount of the money orders issued in the United States of America, into Lebanon currency.

The rate of conversion shall approximate as closely as possible the

buying and selling rate of the United States dollar fixed by the Official Bank at Beyrouth .

The Postal Administration of Lebanon will duly notify the Postal Administration of the United States of the conversion rates used for

orders going in both directions .

ARTICLE XX.

Balances. Ante, p. 4260.

Par. (c) . For the establishment of this balance the credit of the
Lebanese Republic , expressed in Lebanese pounds, will be converted into United States dollars by using for the basis of conversion the average official rate of exchange in the United States of America, during the period to which the account relates. The differences established will be carried over to the next quarterly account to follow.
ARTICLE XXII.

Payments. Ante, pp. 4261, 4260.

Par. (2) . The payments provided in this Article and in Article XXI , will be effected by means of drafts drawn on New York in United States dollars.

In witness whereof the Undersigned have signed these Amendments to the Convention and have affixed their seals.

Jan. 21 , Oct. 8, 1946 61 STAT. ] LEBANON-POSTAL MONEY ORDERS-
Mar. 15, 1947
Done in duplicate and signed at Washington on October 8, 1946
and Beyrouth on 15 Mars 1947.

4271

[]1
Rabatt Postmaster Gopery .

 J.J
Erector of Posts and Felecommunications.



1 [Robert E. Hannegan] [J. Nammour]

95347°-50-PT. IV- 60

fomer

Jan. 21 , Oct. 8, 1946 61 STAT. ] LEBANON- POSTAL MONEY ORDERS- Mar. 15, 1947

4273

AMENDEMENTS A L'ARRANGEMENT ENTRE LES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE
ET LA REPUBLIQUE LIBANAISE CONCERNANT LES MANDATS DE POSTE

4274

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

En vertu des pouvoirs qui leur sont conférés , le Postmaster General des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et le Directeur des Postes et Télécommunications de la République Libanaise ont arrêté les amendements suivants à l'Arrangement concernant les Mandats de Poste entre les deux pays.
Ces amendements entreront en vigueur des qu'ils seront signés, et remplaceront les Articles IV, XX (Alinéa c) , et XXII (Paragraphe 2) .
ARTICLE IV

Le montant des mandats de poste échangés dans les deux sens sera exprimé en monnaie américaine. Le bureau d'échange de Beyrouth convertira le montant des mandats emis au Liban en dollars des Etats-Unis , et celui des mandats émis aux Etats-Unis en monnaie libanaise .
Le taux de conversion se conformera autant que possible au prix d'achat et de vente du dollar fixé par la Banque Officielle de Beyrouth.
L'Administration des Postes du Liban notifiera celle des EtatsUnis au moment voulu sur les taux de conversion employés pour les mandats expédiés dans les deux sens .
ARTICLE XX

Alinéa (c) . Pour l'établissement de ce solde, l'avoir de la Répu-

blique Libanaise, exprimé en livres libanaises, sera converti en dollars

!

des Etats-Unis en prenant comme base de conversion le cours moyen

officiel du change aux Etats-Unis pendant la période à laquelle le

compte correspond . trimestriel prochain.

La différence établie sera portée au compte ARTICLE XXII

Paragraphe (2) . Les paiements prévus à l'Article présent et à l'Article XXI seront effectués au moyen de traites tirées sur New York en dollars des Etats-Unis.
En foi de quoi , les soussignés ont souscrit ces Amendements à l'Arrangement et y ont apposé leurs sceaux officials .

Jan. 21, Oct. 8, 1946 61 STAT. ] LEBANON-POSTAL MONEY ORDERS- Mar. 15, 1947
Fait en duplicata et signé à Washington le October 8, 1946 et à Beyrouth le 15 Mars 1947.

4275


RobertHargan " Postmaster General.



Directeur des Postes et Télécommunications.
1 [Robert E. Hannegan] [J. Nammour]

4276

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 Stat.

Ocvteombberer1130,, 129042, , aNnodMay 12, June 16, 21, 28, 1945
[T. I. A. S. 1989]

Agreement between the United States of America and Mexico respecting a cooperative program for weather stations in Mexico, amending and extending the agreement of October 13 and 20 and November 10, 1942. Effected by exchanges of notes signed at Mexico , D. F., May 12, June 16, 21 , and 28, 1945; entered into force July 1 , 1945. And agreement effected by exchanges of notes signed at Mexico, D. F. , October 13 and 20 and November 10, 1942; entered into force November 10, 1942.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Mexican Minister for Foreign Relations

No. 3,884

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Mexico, D.F., May 12, 1945

EXCELLENCY :

Post, p. 4281.

I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's note 697 of October 13, 1942, and to the Memorandum Agreement between Mexico and the United States pertaining to the cooperative project of the Mexican Weather Bureau and the United States Weather Bureau under the

Post, p. 4285.

program of the Inter-departmental Committee on Cooperation with the American Republics. The Ministry in its note to the Embassy No. 59195 of November 10, 1942 , informed the Embassy that the Ministry of Agriculture agreed to the terms of the Memorandum and under-

stood that the agreement was to be effective until June 30, 1945.

Proposed extension

of agreement.

As the Agreement now in force will expire June 30, 1945, the Em-

bassy is instructed to approach Your Excellency's Government with

the view to effecting an extension of the Memorandum Agreement for

another three year period , i.e. from July 1 , 1945, to June 30, 1948. The

continued performance of the Agreement on the part of the United

States Government is, of course, dependent on the appropriation of

the necessary funds by the Congress of the United States

I should be happy to transmit Your Excellency's reply to this com-

munication to my Government.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and

most distinguished consideration.

HERBERT S. BURSLEY

Chargé d'Affaires a.i.

His Excellency Señor Licenciado EZEQUIEL PADILLA

Minister for Foreign Relations Mexico, D. F.

Oct. 13, 20, Nov. 10, 1942 61 STAT. ] MEXICO WEATHER STATIONS- May 12, June 16, 21 , 28, 1945
The Mexican Acting Minister for Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

ESTADOS UNIDOS MEXICANOS

56730

MEXICO

MÉXICO, D.F. , a 16 de Junio de 1945.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Con referencia a la nota de esa Embajada a su digno cargo, número 3884, fechada el 12 del actual, relativa a los deseos del Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia para que el Memorándum Convenio relativo al Servicio de Observación Meteorológico por radiosondeo, existente entre México y los Estados Unidos de América , se prorrogue por 3 años , y sin estar aún en condiciones de comunicar a Vuestra Excelencia la

respectiva contestación de las autoridades competentes mexicanas, tengo el agrado de manifestarle que la Secretaría de Agricultura y Fomento, con el deseo de fomentar el establecimiento de estaciones para tal servicio, comunica a esta Dependencia del Ejecutivo que la Dirección General de Geografía , Meteorología e Hidrología , sugirió al Servicio Meteorológico Norteamericano la conveniencia de establecer dos estaciones de la misma naturaleza , en Ciudad Victoria, Tamps. y

Chihuahua , Chih. que funcionarían bajo las mismas condiciones establecidas en el Convenio Memorándum citado.

Se refiere aquella Secretaría a que el Servicio Meteorológico Norteamericano, en nota enviada por su Delegado, señor Arnold P. Eliot, de fecha 8 de mayo último, está anuente a establecer la estación de que se trata, en la capital de Estado de Tamaulipas.
De acuerdo con lo anterior tengo el agrado de poner lo correspondiente en conocimiento de Vuestra Excelencia, con el fin de que, en su caso, pueda adicionarse el convenio existente incluyendo la estación de referencia.
Aprovecho esta oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
P CAMPOS Excelentísimo
Señor GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH

Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América Presente.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS UNITED MEXICAN STATES MEXICO
56730
MR. AMBASSADOR :

MEXICO, D.F. , June 16, 1945.

With reference to note number 3884 , dated the 12th instant, from the Embassy under your worthy charge, relative to the desires of Your Excellency's Government that the Memorandum of Agreement relative to the Meteorological Observation Service by radiosonde, which is in

4277

4278

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
effect between Mexico and the United States of America, be extended for three years, although I am not yet in a position to communicate to Your Excellency the answer of the competent Mexican authorities, I have the honor to inform you that the Department of Agriculture and Development, with the desire to promote the establishment of stations for that service, informs this branch of the Executive that the Office of the Director General of Geography, Meteorology and Hydrology has suggested to the United States Meteorological Service the advantage in establishing two stations of the same nature at Ciudad Victoria, Tamaulipas and Chihuahua, Chihuahua, which would be operated under the same terms stated in the Memorandum of Agreement mentioned.
The said Department refers to the fact that the United States Meteorological Service, in a note sent by its representative, Mr. Arnold P. Eliot, dated May 8 last, [ 1 ] agrees to establish the station referred to in the capital of the State of Tamaulipas.
In accord with the aforegoing, I have the honor to bring this information to Your Excellency's attention to the end that, if desirable, the existing Agreement may be extended to include the station referred to.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
P CAMPOS His Excellency
GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America City.

The American Ambassador to the Acting Minister for Foreign Relations

No. 4025 EXCELLENCY :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Mexico, D.F., June 21, 1945

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's courteous note No. 56730 dated June 16, 1945 with reference to this

Embassy's communication No. 3884 of June 12, [2 ] 1945 concerning the eventual renewal for a period of three years of the Memorandum Agreement existing between the Governments of Mexico and the

United States and pertaining to the cooperative project of the Mexican Weather Bureau and the United States Weather Bureau under the program of the Interdepartmental Committee on Cultural and Sci-

entific Cooperation with the American Republics. Your Excellency informs me that the Dirección General de Geografía, Meteorología e Hidrología of the Ministry of Agriculture suggests for the considera-

1 [ Not printed. ]
2 [This date should read "May 12" ; see ante, p. 4276.]

Oct. 13, 20, Nov. 10, 1942 61 STAT. ] MEXICO WEATHER STATIONS- May 12, June 16, 21, 28, 1945

4279

tion of the United States Weather Bureau that two additional radio-

sonde stations be established, one in Ciudad Victoria, Tamps. , and one

in Chihuahua, Chih., to operate under the conditions set forth in the Memorandum Agreement, and Your Excellency also states that a reply

has not been received from the appropriate Mexican authorities with

regard to the renewal of the agreement for a period of three years or to

June 30, 1948. As I am instructed by my Government that the United States
Weather Bureau concurs in the desirability of establishing the addi-

Establishment of additional station at
Ciudad Victoria.

tional station at Ciudad Victoria, may I propose to Your Excellency,

in accordance with the suggestion contained in the next to last para-

graph of Your Excellency's note No. 56730, that the language of paragraph one of the Memorandum Agreement which now reads :

Post, p. 4282.



"1. To cooperate in the establishment and operation of three radiosonde observation stations in Mexico, to be located at Mexico City (Tacubaya) , Mazatlan and Tapachula ; and"

be changed to read :

"1. To cooperate in the establishment and operation of four radio-

sonde observation stations in Mexico, to be located at Mexico City

(Tacubaya ) , Mazatlan , Merida and Ciudad Victoria, Tamps. ; and". The above amendment would provide not only for the establishment of a new station at Ciudad Victoria but also for the transfer of the

Transfer of station in Tapachula.

station in Tapachula to Merida which was actually effected in 1944. I have referred to my Government the suggestion with regard to the establishment of a station at Chihuahua, Chih., but in the meantime venture to suggest to Your Excellency that the extension of the amended Memorandum Agreement for a period of three years be

effected by an exchange of notes comprising this communication and Your Excellency's reply thereto. As I am informed that the United States Weather Bureau has made provision in its budget for the 1946 fiscal year in connection with its obligations under the Memorandum Agreement for the establishment of the Ciudad Victoria station and as it desires to proceed in cooperation with the Mexican Meteorological Service promptly after June 30, 1945, in the establishment of this station, I would appreciate receiving Your Excellency's reply to this communication as soon as a decision is reached by the appropriate

authorities of the Mexican Government concerning the eventual renewal of the amended Memorandum Agreement to June 30, 1948.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH Ambassador
His Excellency Señor Licenciado PABLO CAMPOS ORTIZ

Acting Minister for Foreign Relations Mexico, D. F.

4280 Ante, p . 4276.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

The Mexican Acting Minister for Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES ESTADOS UNIDOS MEXICANOS MEXICO

57176

MÉXICO, D. F., a 28 de Junio de 1945.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Con nueva referencia a la nota de Vuestra Excelencia, número 3884, fechada el 12 de mayo último, en la que se sirve comunicarme haber recibido instrucciones del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América

a efecto de que se prorrogue, por tres años, el Memorandum Convenio relativo al servicio de observación meteorológico por radiosondas, exis-

tente entre mi Gobierno y el de Vuestra Excelencia, tengo el agrado de comunicarle que la Secretaría de Agricultura y Fomento me participa estar enteramente de acuerdo en que se prorrogue, por el período

señalado, es decir, del 1o . de julio de 1945 al 30 de junio de 1948 , la vigencia del Memorandum Convenio de que se trata.
Aprovecho esta oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración,
P CAMPOS Excelentísimo
Señor GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH .

Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Presente.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS UNITED MEXICAN STATES MEXICO
57176
MR. AMBASSADOR :

MEXICO, D.F. , June 28, 1945.

Referring again to Your Excellency's note number 3884, dated May 12 last, in which you are good enough to inform me that you have received instructions from the Government of the United States of America to the end that the Memorandum of Agreement relative to

the Meteorological Observation Service by radiosonde, which is in effect between my Government and that of Your Excellency, be extended for three years, I have the honor to inform you that the Department of Agriculture and Development informs me that it is completely in accord with the extension for the period indicated, that is to say, from July 1 , 1945 to June 30, 1948, of the term of the Memorandum of Agreement in reference.

61 STAT ] MEXICO- WEATHER STATIONS Oct. 13, 20, Nov. 10, 1942 May 12, June 16, 21, 28, 1945
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
P CAMPOS His Excellency
GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH , Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America. City.

4281

The American Ambassador to the Mexican Minister for Foreign Relations

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 697 EXCELLENCY :

Mexico, D.F., October 13, 1942.

I have the honor to refer to the Undersecretary's courteous note no. 5682 of January 31, 1941, [ 1 ] and related correspondence in connection

Establishment of radiosonde observa-
tion stations.

with the visit to Mexico of Mr. Stephen Lichtblau of the United States Weather Bureau to confer with Dr. José C. Gomez and other officials

of the Mexican Meteorological Service with a view to the establishment on a cooperative basis of radiosonde observation stations .
Since Mr. Lichtblau's visit to Mexico, Dr. F. W. Reichelderfer, Chief of the Weather Bureau, has corresponded with Dr. Gomez on the subject and it is understood that as a result of these preliminary discussions the United States Weather Bureau and the Mexican

Meteorological Service have agreed in principle that it would be

desirable to cooperate in the establishment and operation of three

radiosonde observation stations to be located in Mexico City (Tacu-

baya) , Mazatlan and Tapachula. In this connection I have the honor to transmit herewith a Memo-
randum Agreement setting forth in detail the conditions under which

Memorandum Agreement.
Post, p. 4282.

the United States Weather Bureau proposes to cooperate with the

Mexican Meteorological Service in the establishment and operation of the proposed stations in question . Ifthis Memorandum Agreement

meets with the approval of Your Excellency's Government I should

appreciate it if Your Excellency would be so kind as to inform me as

soon as may be possible in order that I may so inform my Government.

It is the view of my Government that a note from Your Excellency accepting the proposals set forth in the Memorandum will constitute

an agreement to that effect and it is not necessary that the Memorandum be signed.
For Your Excellency's further information I may state that my Government has already established a network of radiosonde obser-

Desired result of project.

vation stations in the United States, the West Indies, and the Canal Zone, and if additional stations can be established at Mexico City,

1 [Not printed . ]

4282

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Mazatlan, and Tapachula the project will result in filling an existing gap in the network. The stations will make it possible forthe Mexican Meteorological Service and the Weather Bureau to obtain data on the temperature, pressure and humidity of the atmosphere from the earth's

surface to great heights. This information is of vital importance to

aviation both in Mexico and the United States and it is therefore hoped

that Your Excellency will be so kind as to expedite a reply in the

premises.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and

most distinguished consideration.

GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH

Enclosure : Memorandum Agreement, as stated.

His Excellency Señor Licenciado EZEQUIEL PADILLA,

Minister for Foreign Relations, Mexico, D. F.

MEMORANDUM AGREEMENT

Regular exchange of meteorological data.

In accordance with recent correspondence between Dr. F. W. Reich-

elderfer, Chief of the United States Weather Bureau, and Dr. José C.

Gomez, Chief of the Mexican Meteorological Service, and previous

conversations between representatives of the two organizations, the

Government of the United States , through the Weather Bureau, now

proposes to cooperate with the Government of Mexico, through the

Mexican Meteorological Service, in organizing the regular exchange

of meteorological data , subject to the following understanding :

General objectives.

It shall be the general objective of the said meteorological services

of the two countries -

Ante, p. 4279.

1. To cooperate in the establishment and operation of three radiosonde observation stations in Mexico, to be located at Mexico City ( Tacubaya) , Mazatlan and Tapachula ; and
2. To provide for the daily exchange of upper-air weather observations between the United States Weather Bureau and the Mexican Meteorological Service for the use of each country, especially in serving the needs of aviation, and to render it possible for the Government of the United States and the Government of Mexico to assist in the development of a continental exchange of weather information, forecasts, and warnings.

Action by U. 8. Weather Bureau .

To attain the foregoing objectives, the United States Weather Bu-

reau agrees to -

(a) Provide and install the ground equipment necessary for making radiosonde observations at each of the three stations and pay the cost of necessary repairs ;
(b) Authorize one of its technicians to visit the observation stations to repair the ground equipment, whenever such equipment becomes inoperative and repairs cannot be made locally ;

61 STAT. ] MEXICO- WEATHER STATIONS Oct. 13, 20, Nov. 10, 1942 May 12, June 16, 21 , 28, 1945

4283

(c) Detail three experienced radiosonde observers to Mexico (one to each observation station ) for a period of about two months to instruct observers employed by the Mexican Meteorological Service in the technique of making radiosonde observations and in the maintenance of equipment ;

(d) Provide the necessary radiosondes, balloons, parachutes, helium gas, meteorological forms and other accessories required for the observations ; and

(e) Provide balloon inflation shelters, if necessary.

The Government of Mexico, through the Mexican Meteorological

Action by Government of Mexico.

Service, agrees to -

(a) Assign a minimum of one observer and one assistant to each station for the purpose of making daily observations in accordance with standard practice and procedure ;

(b) Supply the necessary office quarters and office equipment, including heat, light and electric power ;

(c) Provide adequate ground space for balloon inflation shelters, as may be necessary ;

(d) Arrange for the prompt transmission of the radiosonde observation reports made pursuant to this agreement to a point in

the United States to be designated by the United States Weather Bureau ; and

(e) Make available the recorder records to the United States Weather Bureau for reference purpose, and supply that Bureau with copies of the Weather Bureau forms which will be used for all radiosonde observations made at the stations.

I. The total amount to be expended by the United States Weather Expenditures.

Bureau shall not exceed Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) during the

fiscal year ending June 30, 1943. All expenditures incurred by the

Weather Bureau shall be paid directly by that organization and all

expenditures incident to the obligations assumed by the Government

of Mexico shall be paid directly by that Government. II. Title to all property supplied by the Mexican Government shall
remain vested in that Government, and likewise the title to all property supplied by the Government of the United States shall remain vested therein.
This agreement shall come into effect on the day on which it is accepted by the Government of Mexico, and shall continue in effect until June 30, 1943, [1] or for an additional period if mutually agreed upon

Titleto property.
Effective date; termination.

in writing, unless the Congress of either country shall fail to make

available the funds necessary for its execution in which case it may be

terminated on sixty days' advance written notice by the Government of either country.

¹ [ The year should read "1945 " ; see post, p. 4284. ]

4284 Ante, p. 4281. Ante, p. 4283.]

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT..

The American Ambassador to the Mexican Minister for Foreign Relations

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 708 EXCELLENCY :

Mexico, D.F., October 20, 1942

I venture to refer to my note no. 697 of October 13, 1942, transmitting, for Your Excellency's consideration, a Memorandum Agreement respecting the desire of the United States Weather Bureau to cooperate with the Mexican Meteorological Service in the establishment and operation of three radiosonde observation stations to be located in Mexico City (Tacubaya ) , Mazatlan , and Tapachula.
I now have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the date mentioned in the last paragraph of the Memorandum Agreement should be changed to read "June 30, 1945" and the paragraph in question would therefore read as follows :

"This agreement shall come into effect on the day on which it is accepted by the Government of Mexico, and shall continue in effect until June 30, 1945, or for an additional period if mutually agreed upon in writing, unless the Congress of either country shall fail to make available the funds necessary for its execution in which case it may be terminated on sixty days' advance written notice by the Government of either country."

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH His Excellency
Señor, Licenciado EZEQUIEL PADILLA,
Minister for Foreign Relations, Mexico, D.F.

The Mexican Minister for Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES ESTADOS UNIDOS MEXICANOS MEXICO

59195

MÉXICO, D.F., 10 de noviembre de 1942.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Tengo el honor de referirme nuevamente a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia, número 697, de fecha 13 de octubre de 1942, relativa al establecimiento de un servicio de observación meteorológica por radio-

sondas, en México, Mazatlán y Tapachula. La Secretaría de Agricultura y Fomento me participa que acepta
cumplir la parte que le corresponde al Convenio propuesto y en los términos del memorándum que Vuestra Excelencia se sirvió acompañar a su nota a que hago referencia, quedando entendido que la duración

de dicho Convenio será hasta el 30 de junio del año de 1945.

Oct. 13, 20, Nov. 10, 1942 61 STAT. ] MEXICO-WEATHER STATIONS- May 12, June 16, 21, 28, 1945
Sírvase aceptar Vuestra Excelencia , las seguridades de mi consideración más alta y distinguida.
E. PADILLA Excmo. Señor GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH,
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica, Presente.

4285

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS UNITED MEXICAN STATES MEXICO

59195 MR. AMBASSADOR :

MEXICO, D.F. , November 10, 1942.

I have the honor to refer again to Your Excellency's courteous note number 697, dated October 13, 1942, relative to the establishment of a

meteorological observation service by radiosonde in Mexico City, Mazatlán and Tapachula.

The Department of Agriculture and Development ( Fomento ) notified me that it agrees to fulfill the part it is assigned in the proposed Agreement and in the terms of the memorandum which Your Excel-

lency was good enough to enclose with the note to which I have re-

ferred, it being understood that the duration of the said Agreement shall be until June 30 of the year 1945.

Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
E. PADILLA His Excellency
GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH,

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, City.

Ante, p. 4281.

INDEX

A

Page Argentina :

Money orders, exchange of

Agricultural Workers, Mexican : Illegal entrants into U. S...

4097, 4106

Parcel post service . Postal Union of the Americas and

Temporary migration . Texas, service in ....

3738

Spain ...

4107 Armed Forces, U. S.:

Wage rates in connection with Sugar

Act, 1947___

3739, 3743

Aid, Foreign :

China, relief assistance to ..

3374

Austria, occupation costs.China____ France and French overseas territories,
expenditures--

Greece, military equipment and supplies

Italy, rights and privileges .----

to, agreement with Great Britain__ 3763 Australia :

Aid, Mutual: China.. France, settlement.. Netherlands , settlement.
Air Service Facilities : Australia__. Denmark.

3895 4175 3924
3843 3851

Air service facilities , Eagle Farm and Amberley ---
Maritime Consultative Council, Provisional
Shipping arrangements and recommendations of United Maritime Executive Board .......

France .. Great Britain . Norway... Siam_ Sweden ...

4088, 4095 4008 3861 3855 3893

Austria : Claims and war accounts, certain, settlement of.. Gold, monetary, restitution to .... Occupation costs of U. S. Forces ...

Switzerland .. Air Transport Services :
Brazil... Egypt ... France ... Algeria, air service facilities__.

3859 Aviation. See Air Service Facilities ; Air Transport Services.
4121 Aviation Mission, Civil : 3825 Bolivia. 3445 Ecuador ...
4088 Aviation Mission, Military, Chile___

Alien Property Custodian, Department of

Justice, disposition of Italian prop-

B

erty--

3998, 4002

Page 3540 3524 3479 4171 3755 4206 3661
3843 3796
3791
4168 3571 4171
3863 4013 4006

Allied Military Government, transfer of responsibility, Italy...
Amberley and Eagle Farm, Australia, air service facilities at__.
American Dead in World War II, Interment or Removal :
Belgium ... France__
Hungary Italy .. Netherlands . Rumania . Argentia, Newfoundland, U. S. Naval
Base, delimitation of territorial waters, agreement with United Kingdom ....

Bangkapi and Don Muang, air service

3661

facilities at, agreement with Siam...

Base, Naval, Argentia, Newfoundland,

3843

delimitation of territorial waters,

agreement with United Kingdom ....

3352 3767 3898 3750 4037 4042

Bases, Military, Philippines ----Belgium :
American dead in World War II, interment or removal___.
Belgo-Luxemburg Economic Union-
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, 1947, supplementation of...

4065

Trade agreement of Feb. 27, 1935, rendered inoperative..
Passport visa fees ..

3855
4065 4019
3352
3689 3689 4117

CXCV

CXCVI

INDEX

Belgium - Continued ShippingCo-ordinated control of... Maritime Consultative Council , Provisional . United Maritime Executive Board, arrangements and recommendations____
Belgo-Luxemburg Economic Union. See under Belgium.
Bolivia: Civil aviation mission____ Money orders, exchange of.. Parcel post service .. Postal Union of the Americas and Spain____
Boykin Act, benefits with respect to Italy.. Brazil :
Air transport services__. Money orders, exchange of .. Parcel post service --Postal Union of the Americas and Spain. Shipping-
Maritime Consultative Council , Provisional .
United Maritime Executive Board, arrangements and recommendations____
Broadcasting, Radio. See Radio Broadcasting. C
CAA. See Civil Aeronautics Administration.
Canada : Canol Project facilitiesCrude oilDisposal -Rights, waiver of certain .. Evaluation of.. General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, 1947 , supplementation of Hyde Park Declaration, continuation of principles . Naval forces on American lakes .. Parcel post service ... Postal Union of the Americas and Spain . Radio broadcasting, allocation of FM channels .. Radio transmitting stations , mobile____ Reconversion of industry --Rush-Bagot Agreement, observation of ShippingCo-ordinated control of.. Maritime Consultative Council , Provisional ..... United Maritime Executive Board, arrangements and recommendations__

Page Canada- Continued

Page

3784

Trade agreement of Nov. 17, 1938,

rendered inoperative_- - - -

3695

Canol Project Facilities. See under Cana-

3796

da.

Cemeteries for American War Dead:

3791

Belgium ---France..

Hungary .

Italy . Netherlands .

3863 Rumania..

3540 Chile :

3524 Military aviation mission__.

Money orders, exchange of.

3479 Parcel post service .___

3352 3767 3898 3750 4037 4042
4006 3540 3524

3999
4121 3540 3524 3479

Postal Union of the Americas and Spain. Shipping-
Maritime Consultative Council, Provisional_
United Maritime Executive Board, arrangements and recommendations..

3479 3796 3791

3796 3791

China : Mutual aid___ Relief assistance.. U. S. armed forces...
U. S. Educational Foundation , lishment ....

estab-

3895 3374 3755
3582

Vessels and equipment, U. S. Naval,

transfer of....

3618

Civil Aeronautics Administration, assistance in operation of air service facilities in French territory, agreement

with France.---. Civil Aeronautics Board:

4088, 4090

3681 3679 3677

Rate agreements, approval, provision in air transport agreements with-
Brazil . France ...

4141 3458

Civil Aviation Mission : 3695 Bolivia..
Ecuador..

3863 4013

3958 Claims:

4069 Austria-

3524

Occupation costs of U. S. Forces ...

Settlement of certain

3479 Czechoslovakia, settlement of certain

war accounts ...

3800 France-

3349

Intergovernmental..........

3958

Shipping--

4069

Troop pay and military procurement.

4172 4168
3410
4175 4196 4198

3784 3796

Great Britain, overpayment of charter hire for ships . -
ItalyPrewar ...

3951 3967

3791

PropertyLiterary, artistic or industrial..... Treaty of Peace, application of....

4002 3966

INDEX

CXCVII

Page

Claims-Continued Italy-Continued

Economic and Financial Relations, Italy.. Ecuador :

U. S nationals..

3988 Civil aviation mission .............

Vessels... Wartime.. NetherlandsIntergovernmental__ Private ..

4000, 4002 3962
3924 3924

Educational program, cooperative _-Money orders, exchange of ... Parcel post service ....... Postal Union of the Americas and
Spain____

Ships, charter hire overpayment _ - _- 3951 Education, Cooperative Program of:

Cointrin Airport, Switzerland, SCS-51

Ecuador__

equipment..-Colombia :

3859 Peru____ . Educational Foundation, Inc. , Inter-

Money orders, exchange of _ Parcel post service ... Postal Union of the Americas and Spain.

3540

American. See Inter-American Edu-

3524

cational Foundation, Inc.

3479 Educational Foundation in China, U. S.,

Commercial Agreement of 1935, Sweden,

establishment .___.

temporary modification__ . Commercial Policy, Declaration on, France. Costa Rica :

3745 Egypt, air transport services . 4210 El Salvador:
Money orders, exchange of

Money orders, exchange of....... Parcel post service -----

3540 3524

Parcel post service ---Postal Union of the Americas and Spain.

Postal Union of the Americas and Spain. Crowley-Monnet Account. See Monnet-
Crowley Adjustment. Cuba:

3479

Export-Import Agency, Joint (United States-United Kingdom) , functions, etc. , under agreement respecting fusion of American and British zones

General Agreement on Tariffs and

of occupation in Germany..

Trade, 1947, supplementation of.. Money orders, exchange of....... Parcel post service----Postal Union of the Americas and Spain_

3699 3540 3524 3479

Extradition Convention of 1868, reciprocal application of Article I , Italy ---F

Trade agreements of Aug. 24, 1934, Dec. 18, 1939, and Dec. 23, 1941 ,

Fields of Honor. See Cemeteries for American War Dead.

rendered inoperative _ - _-

3699 Finances , Haiti__

Weather stations, cooperative program_ 4084 Financial and Economic Relations, Italy.

Czechoslovakia, settlement of certain

FM Channels in Radio Broadcasting,

claims and war accounts ..

3410

Allocation of, Canada---

D

Foreign Aid. See also Aid, Mutual.

China, relief assistance to...

Declaration by U. S. and French Presidents ...
Denmark :

4216

Greece, military equipment and supplies to, agreement with Great Britain ...

Air service facilities , Kastrup airport___ 3851 Foreign Exchange Agency, Joint (United

Maritime Consultative Council, Pro-

visional...

3796

States-United Kingdom) , functions, etc. , under agreement respecting

Shipping arrangements and recom-

fusion of American and British zones

mendations of United Maritime

of occupation in Germany ...... -

Executive Board ...

3791 Four Power Naval Commission, establish-

Dollar Bonds, Italian, agreement with

ment of..

Italy ... Dominican Republic :

3981 France : Aid, mutual, settlement for____

Money orders, exchange of __ Parcel post service _ _ _. Postal Union of the Americas and Spain.

3540 3524 3479

Commercial policy, declaration on___
Declaration by U. S. and French Presidents..

Don Muang and Bangkapi, air service

Expenditures , U. S. armed forces in

facilities at, agreement with Siam .... 3855

France and French overseas

E

Eagle Farm and Amberley, Australia, air

service facilities at ..

3843

territories ...
Motion pictures, American, exhibition in France .
Shipping claims_.

Page 3962 4013 3902 3540 3524 3479 3902 3871
3582 3825 3540 3524 3479
3609 3687
4111 3962 3800 3374
3763
3610 3847 4175 4210 4216
4206 4213 4196

CXCVIII

INDEX

France Continued Air service facilities, French territory .
Air transport services___ American dead in World War II, inter-
ment or removal_ General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade, 1947, supplementation of.. German property in Sweden, liquida-
tion --Gold, monetary, restitution to-
Austria ... Italy__ Italian fleet, excess units; Four Power

Page 4088,
4095 3445
3767
3715
3840
3571 3729

Great Britain-Continued Claims, charter hire of ships, overpayment_. General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, 1947, supplementation of.. Germany, economic fusion of American and British zones of occupation___ Gold, monetary, restitution toAustria .
Italy. Italian fleet, excess units ; Four Power
Naval Commission ; return by Soviet Union of warships on loan___.

Page 3951 3725 3608 3571 3729
3846

Naval Commission ; return by Soviet Union of warships on loan .. Passport visa fees .................. ShippingMaritime Consultative Council, Pro-
visional United Maritime Executive Board,
arrangements and recommendations_____

3846 3776
3796
3791

Radio range, SCS-51 equipment, transfer of
ShippingCo-ordinated control of ... ... .... Maritime Consultative Council, Provisional United Maritime Executive Board, arrangements and recommendations ....

4008 3784 3796
3791

Trade agreement of May 6, 1936 , rendered inoperative_ - _
Troop pay and military procurement . Voluntary labor, recruitment of, U. S.
Zone of Germany . - French Republic, Provisional Govern-
ment of. See France. Frequency Modulation Broadcasting Sta-
tions, Canada_.
G
Gardermoen Airfield , Norway, air service facilities at ...

3715

Trade agreement of Nov. 17, 1938, rendered inoperative_- _

4198 Great Lakes, Naval Forces on, Canada... Greece :

4113

Aid, military equipment and supplies, Great Britain___

3800

ShippingCo-ordinated control of__. Maritime Consultative Council, Provisional..

3861

United Maritime Executive Board , arrangements and recommendations____ .

3725 4069
3763 3784 37.96
3791

General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, 1947, Supplementation :
Belgium .... Canada Cuba .. France__ Great Britain_. Netherlands .

3689 3695 3699 3715 3725 3721

Vessels and equipment, U. S. Naval, transfer of.......
Guatemala : Money orders, exchange of__ Parcel post service____ Postal Union of the Americas and Spain .
Guiana, French, air service facilities ..

3734
3540 3524
3479 4088

German Property in Sweden, Liquidation of, understanding with France _- _ - _.
Germany : American and British zones of occupation, economic fusion of.. U. S. Zone, recruitment of voluntary labor for France_...
Gold, Monetary, Restitution : Austria, multilateral agreement . Italy, multilateral agreement ...
Great Britain : Aid to Greece, procurement of military equipment and supplies .. Argentia, Newfoundland, U. S. Naval Base at, delimitation of territorial waters adjacent to--.

3840
3608 4113 3571 3729
3763
4065

H Haiti :
Finances Health and sanitation program, coop-
erative_- _. Money orders, exchange of.. Parcel post service____ Postal Union of the Americas and
Spain___. Headquarters, United Nations:
Agreement . - . Interim agreement . - Health and Sanitation Program : Haiti.. Peru ....

4111
3651 3540 3524
3479
3416 3439
3651 3361

INDEX

CXCIX

Honduras :

Page Italy- Continued

Page

Money orders, exchange of.

3540 Financial and economic relations_ ..

3962

Parcel post service.....

3524 Gold, monetary, restitution to Italy ... 3729

Postal Union of the Americas and

Spain..

3479

J

Hungary, interment of remains of American military and civilian personnel...
Hyde Park Declaration, continuation of principles, Canada___

Joint 3898

Export-Import

Agency

(United

States-United Kingdom) , functions,

3958

etc. , under agreement respecting fusion of American and British zones

I

of occupation in Germany---

3609

Import Restrictions, Quantitative, Sweden.
India : Maritime Consultative Council, Provisional
Shipping arrangements and recommendations of United Maritime Executive Board........
Indo-China, air service facilities__ Industry, Reconversion of, Canada.... Institute of Inter-American Affairs :

3745 Joint Foreign Exchange Agency (United States-United Kingdom) , functions,

etc. , under agreement respecting

3796

fusion of American and British zones

of occupation in Germany--.

3610

Justice, Department of, Office of Alien

3791 4088

Property Custodian, Italian prop-

erty . -

3998, 4002

3958 K

Educational program, cooperative, Ecuador___.
Health and sanitation program, coop-

Kastrup Airport, Facilities at, agreement

3902

with Denmark ..

3851

erativeHaiti Peru____ Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc.:

3651 3361

Cooperative educational program-- Ecuador... Peru.----

3902 3871

Interim Headquarters Agreement, United

Nations___

3439

International Civil Aviation Organization, Provisional :

AgreementsNotice of termination___

3454, 4134

Registry...

3452, 3827, 4130

Air service facilities, French territory,

establishment of regulations___

4089

L
Labor, Recruitment in U. S. Zone of Germany, agreement with France ...
Lake Success Site. See under United Nations.
Lebanon, exchange of postal money orders. Lend-Lease Act :
Aid, mutualChina ... France, settlement .. Netherlands .
Claims, Italy .... Luxemburg. See Belgo-Luxemburg Eco-
nomic Union under Belgium.
M

4113
4251
3895 4175 3924 3962

Instrument landing systems, Great

Britain...

4010

Interim Council, settlement of disputes,

advisory report -------- 3452, 3827, 4130 Rates, failure of agreement on, reference

for advisory report, provision in

air transport agreements withBrazil...

4143

Maritime Consultative Council : Provisional, establishment, multilateral. United Maritime Consultative Council, recommendations for ..
Maritime Council, United, organization . Maritime Executive Board, United :
Arrangements and recommendations of...

3796 3794 3787
3791

France..

3462 Establishment ....

3787, 3788

Italian Fleet, Disposal of Excess Units,

Meteorological

multilateral agreement ---

3846, 3849

Mexico

Service,

Cooperative, 4276

Italy :

Mexico :

Allied Military Government, transfer of responsibility; rights and privileges of U. S. forces in Italy ..

3661

Migration of workers to U. S.-

Agricultural workers ------ 3738, 4097, 4106

Non- agricultural ..

3575

American dead in World War II, dis-

position and care of remains ...

3750

Extradition Convention of 1868, re-

Money orders, exchange of

3540

Parcel post service ----

3524

Postal Union of the Americas and

ciprocal application of Article I ... 3687

Spain____

3479

CC

INDEX

Mexico-Continued Radiosonde observation stations, establishment of.............

Page Netherlands: Aid, mutual, settlement for...
4276 American dead in World War II , inter-

Page 3924

Termination of agreement of Apr. 29, 1943, on recruiting of workers .
Weather stations-

3575

ment or removal. Claims, charter hire of ships , overpay-
ment...

4037 3951

Cooperative program . Guadalupe Island .. Military Aid : France, settlement of claims___

4053 , 4276 4060
4185

General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, 1947, supplementation of.......
Passport visas___ Nonimmigrant passport visa fees,

3721 3838

Greece, equipment and supplies, agree-

ment with Great Britain ..

3763

Military Aviation Mission, Chile

4006

waiving of...-- . Shipping-
Co-ordinated control of..

3834 3784

Military Bases in Philippines_ Monetary Gold, Restitution to:

4019

Maritime Consultative Council, Pro-

visional__.

3796

Austria.. Italy ... Money Orders, Exchange of: Lebanon_ Multilateral.

3571 3729
4251 3540

United Maritime Executive Board, arrangements and recommendations____
Trade agreement of December 20, 1935, rendered inoperative _ -_-

3791 3721

Monnet-Crowley Adjustment, France_ . 4185 , Netherlands Indies, credit for purchase of

4192

surplus property - -.

3947

Morocco, French, air service facilities___ 4088 Newfoundland, delimitation of territorial

Motion Pictures, American, Exhibition of, understanding with France ..
Multilateral Agreements, Etc.: Claims, charter hire of ships, overpayment ...

4213 3951

waters adjacent to U. S. Naval Base at Argentia, agreement with United Kingdom... New Zealand : Maritime Consultative Council, Pro-

4065

Gold, monetary, restitution-- Austria Italy .
Italian fleet, excess units ; Four Power Naval Commission, return by
Soviet Union of warships on loan .. Money orders, exchange of.
Final protocol_. Parcel post service ... --Postal Union of the Americas and Spain.

visional__.

3571 3729

Shipping arrangements and recommendations of United Maritime Execu-

tive Board.__.

Nicaragua:

3846 3540 3570 3524

Money orders, exchange of__ Parcel post service .......... Postal Union of the Americas and Spain.. Norway:

3479 Air service facilities, Gardermoen airfield.

3796
3791 3540 3524 3479 3861

ShippingCo-ordinated control of...

3784

ShippingCo-ordinated control of ...

3784

Maritime Consultative Council , Pro-

visional..

3796

Maritime Consultative Council, Pro-

visional...

3796

United Maritime Executive Board, arrangements and recommenda-

United Maritime Executive Board, arrangements and recommenda-

tions ....

3791

tions ....

3791

Mutual Aid. See Aid, Mutual. 0

N Occupation Costs, U. S. Forces, Austria. 4171

Naval Base, U. S., Argentia, Newfound-

Occupation Zones in Germany, American

land, delimitation of territorial waters, agreement with United Kingdom .... Naval Commission, Four Power, establishment of______

4065 3847

and British, economic fusion of, Great Britain... Oceania, French, air service facilities - - Oil Facilities, Crude. See Canol Project

3608 4088

Naval Forces on American Lakes, Canada_ 4069

facilities under Canada.

Naval Reserve Personnel, vessels for training of, Canada....
Naval Vessels and Equipment, U. S., Transfer :
China__ Greece . __

4082

P

Panama:

3618 3734

Money orders, exchange of.... Parcel post service .---Postal Union of the Americas and Spain.

3540 3524 3479

INDEX

CCI

Paraguay: Money orders, exchange of. Parcel post service ............. Postal Union of the Americas and

Page 3540 3524

Postal Union of the Americas and Spain- Continued
Multilateral agreement- Continued Transfer Office, International__

Page 3512

Spain__ .

3479

Unions, restricted ..

3505

Parcel Post Service, multilateral agreement respecting___.
Passport Visa Fees: Belgium .. France___ Netherlands ..

3524
4117 3776 3834

Universal Postal Convention, appli-

cation_____.

3516, 3523

Parcel post service----.

3524

Abandoned or returned parcels.--

3538

Balances under 50 gold francs, cancel-

lation____

3535

Sweden ...

4050

Customs clearance, delivery, storage

Passport Visas, Netherlands..

3838

and other charges . -

3535

Peru :

Duration ---

3539

Educational program, cooperative _ -_ Health and sanitation program, coop-
erative _ - _-

3871 3361

Effective date .. Final protocol --Fraudulent declarations ..

3539 3539 3537

Money orders , exchange of Parcel post service ----Postal Union of the Americas and Spain

3540 3524 3479

Postage rates and payments .. Responsibility for loss, etc .---Second addressees, parcels for...

3535 3536 3538

Philippines : Military bases .... Postal Convention____.
PICAO. See International Civil Aviation

4019 4161

Universal Postal Union, Parcel Post Agreement and Regulations, applicability ----
Weight and dimensions...

3538 3534

Organization, Provisional.

Provisional International Civil Aviation

Poland :

Organization. See International Civil

Maritime Consultative Council, Provisional..
Shipping, co-ordinated control of. United Maritime Executive Board,
shipping arrangements and recommendations__ Postal Convention, Philippines ---.

Aviation Organization, Provisional.

3796 Provisional Maritime Consultative Coun-

3784

cil, establishment, multilateral .

Publications , Official, Exchange of,

Sweden ...

3791
R 4161

3796 3605

Postal Money Orders, Exchange of, Leb-

Radio Broadcasting, Allocation of FM

anon.

4251

Channels, Canada_

3800

Postal Union of the Americas and Spain :

Multilateral agreement.

3479

Canadian stations_ Number system..

3819 3822

Adherences, new..

3517 U. S. stations ..

3803

Arbitration ... Congresses .

3513 Radio Range and SCS-51 Equipment,

3515

Transfer of, Great Britain___

4008

Customs clearance__

3509 Radio Transmitting Stations, Mobile,

Diplomatic and consular correspond-

interim arrangement with Canada ... 3349

ence .

3520 Radiosonde Stations:

Diplomatic pouches . Duration __--

3520 3517

Cuba .... Mexico ..

4084 4276

Effective date__

3517 Railroad Retirement Act, funds deducted

Franking privilege.. International Office..

3509 3513, 3521

from salaries of Mexican non-agri-

cultural workers__ .

3575

Language, official__ Legislation, domestic , application .

3511 Reciprocal Aid. See Aid, Mutual. 3516, Reconversion of Industry, Canada_ 3523 Relief Assistance, China__.

3958 3374

Modifications and amendments__.

3516 Reserve, Naval, vessels for training of

Postage rates_ Protocol, final_

3506, 3519 3518

personnel, stationing on Great Lakes,

agreement with Canada__

4082

Registered correspondence__. Regulations of execution ... Reservations-
Canada ...

3508 3518
3518

Rumania, disposition of remains of American military and civilian personnel__
Rush-Bagot Agreement, Observation of, Canada__.

4042 4069

Panama... United States .

3518 Russia. See Soviet Socialist Republics,

3518

Union of.

CCII

INDEX

S

Page

T

Page

Salvador. See El Salvador.

Tariffs and Trade, General Agreement on,

Sanitation. See Health and Sanitation

1947, Supplementation :

Program. SCS-51 Equipment :
Great Britain_.

4008

Belgium . Canada Cuba ....

3689 3695 3699

Switzerland ...

3859 France ....

3715

Security Council, United Nations, availability of military bases in Philippines. 4020

Great Britain ......... Netherlands ..

3725 3721

Senegal, air service facilities._. Shipping :
Claims, France___

4088 Texas, service of Mexican agricultural workers in....... .
4196 Thailand. See Siam.

4107

Co-ordinated control of, multilateral___ Provisional Maritime Consultative
Council, establishment, multilateral

3784 Trade Agreements Rendered Inoperative :

Belgo-Luxemburg Economic Union, of

3796

Feb. 27, 1935 ....... Canada, of Nov. 17, 1938 .

3689 3695

United Maritime Consultative Council,

recommendations for_____

3794

Cuba, of Aug. 24, 1934, Dec. 18, 1939,

and Dec. 23 , 1941 ...

3699

United Maritime Council, organization. 3787 United Maritime Executive Board-

France, of May 6, 1936 . Great Britain, of Nov. 17 , 1938 ..

3715 3725

Arrangements and recommendations,

Netherlands, of Dec. 20, 1935 ..

3721

multilateral ...

3791 Tunisia, air service facilities .

4088

Establishment ..

3787, 3788

Siam, air service facilities at Don Muang and Bangkapi...............
South Africa, Union of, shipping arrangements and recommendations of United Maritime Executive Board .............
Soviet Socialist Republics, Union of, excess units of Italian fleet ; Four Power Naval Commission ; return by Soviet Union of warships on loan.......
Spain: Money orders, exchange of Parcel post service .... Postal Union of the Americas and Spain.
Sugar Barter Agreement, France, claims respecting ....
Surplus Property: France .... Netherlands.. Netherlands Indies .. Radio, transfer of maintenance parts , Great Britain____
Surplus War Property Sales Agreement, establishment of U. S. Educational Foundation in China, agreement with China...
Sweden : Air service facilities....
Import restrictions, quantitative_ _ _. Liquidation of German property in ...... Passport visa fees .......... Publications, official, exchange of... ----Shipping arrangements and recom-
mendations of United Maritime

U
3855 Union of South Africa. See South Africa, Union of.

3791 Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. See Soviet Socialist Republics , Union of.
United Kingdom. See Great Britain.

3846
3540 3524 3479

United Maritime Consultative Council,

recommendations for____

3794

United Maritime Council, organization ... 3787 United Maritime Executive Board :

Arrangements and recommendations,

multilateral_.

3791

Establishment ..

3787, 3788

4190
4175 3924 3947

United Nations: Headquarters _ - _Interim agreement---Flushing Assembly Hall Site, description_. Lake Success Site, description ...

3416 3439
3443 3441

4009

Security Council, military bases in Philippines, availability to_____
United States Educational Foundation in China, establishment..

4020 3582

3582 United States Zone, Germany. See under Germany.

3893 Uruguay:

3745 Money orders, exchange of

3540

3840 Parcel post service ..........

3524

4050 Postal Union of the Americas and

3605

Spain__ .

3479

V

Executive Board ... Switzerland, SCS-51 equipment at Coin-
trin airport..

3791 Venezuela : Money orders, exchange of.
3859 Parcel post service ...

3540 3524

INDEX



Venezuela-Continued Postal Union of the Americas and Spain.
Vessels, U. S. Naval, on Great Lakes, agreement with Canada___
Vessels and Equipment, U. S. Naval, Transfer :
China___ Greece.. Visa Fees, Passport. See Passport Visa
Fees.
W
War Accounts, Settlement of Certain : Austria ... Czechoslovakia..........
Warships on Loan, U. S. and British, return by Soviet Union...-.

Page

Page

3479 4069

Weather Stations, Cooperative Program :

Cuba

4084

Mexico .

4053, 4276

Mexico, Guadalupe Island .___.

4060

Workers, Non-Agricultural, Mexican :

Agreement, April 29, 1943, termination

3618

of_____

3575

3734 Salaries, deductions under Railroad

Retirement Act, refund of

3575

World War II, Interment or Removal of

American Dead :

Belgium.... France ...

3352 3767

4168 3410

Hungary .. Italy... Netherlands ..

3898 3750 4037

3846 Rumania..-

4042

O

1868053856086805

THE OSU COLLEGE OF LAW LIBRARY 3 2437 01094 0357

