This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

BUAERNTCSE EKNNEORIWCLULETDUGREE
LIBRARY ofthe OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY
LAW LIBRARY

UNITED

STATES

STATUTES AT CONTAINING THE

LARGE

LAWS AND CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS ENACTED DURING THE FIRST SESSION OF THE
EIGHTIETH CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

1947 AND
PROCLAMATIONS, TREATIES , INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES ,
REORGANIZATION PLANS, AND PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION

COMPILED, EDITED, INDEXED, AND PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF LAW UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE

VOLUME 61 IN SIX PARTS

PART 3 INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS
OTHER THAN TREATIES

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1948

 

707.3 001
FEB 19 %
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C.
Price $6.75 (Buckram)

CONTENTS

LIST OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES¹___ Page

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES_

2285

INDEX...

CLXXXV

¹ [International agreements other than treaties are continued in Parts 4, 5, and 6 of this Volume.]
iii

LIST OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES CONTAINED IN PART 3 OF THIS VOLUME¹

Turkey. Air transport services ...
Poland. Reciprocal customs privileges for foreign service personnel. Brazil. Cooperative program of rural education in Brazil . Honduras. Health and sanitation program_ Brazil. Naval mission .......... Multilateral. World Health Organization and establishment of an Interim Commission Peru. Military aviation mission .. Colombia. Naval mission__ .
Netherlands. Commercial policyIceland. Termination of defense agreement of July 1 , 1941 , and provision for interim use
of Keflavik airport -----Czechoslovakia. Commercial policy .. Philippines. Trade relations .. New Zealand. Air transport services..
Australia. Air transport services --United Kingdom. Economic fusion of American and British zones of occupation in Germany. Philippines. Air transport services .. Peru. Health and sanitation programMultilateral. Constitution of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization___. Canada. Waiver of certain claims involving government vessels--
Multilateral. Preparatory Commission of the International Refugee Organization_ Philippines. Public roads program in the Philippines . Nepal. Friendship and commerce.. India. Air transport services .. Peru. Air transport services...
Philippines. Trade.... United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Prevention of abuses of customs
privileges at certain leased naval and air bases ..
Union of South Africa. Mutual aid settlement-Multilateral. Reparation to non-repatriable victims of German action... El Salvador. Cooperative educational program in El Salvador ... . Finland. Relief from double taxation on shipping profits-Haiti. Haitian finances__
Multilateral. Zones of occupation in Austria and the administration of the City of Vienna. Paraguay. Reciprocal trade. United Kingdom . Claims for damages resulting from acts of armed forces personnel . Canada . Surplus property disposal operationsMultilateral. Italian military armistice, etc.Ecuador. Air transport services ..
Siam. Air transport services .. France. Passport visa fees .China. Air transport services-France. Extension of time for fulfilling conditions and formalities of copyright .. Philippines. Fishery program in the PhilippinesPhilippines. American-Philippine financial commission New Zealand. Extension of time for fulfilling conditions and formalities of copyright .. Multilateral. Prolonging agreement of Jan. 4, 1946 , respecting a European Coal Organiza-
tion_..
Philippines. Coast and geodetic program in the Philippines Philippines. Meteorological program in the PhilippinesPhilippines. Air navigation program in the PhilippinesCanada. Air transport services . Ireland. Air transport services . Iceland. Air transportation of Icelandic passengers and mail .

Page 2285 2297 2301 2319 2338 2349 2398 2413 2424
2426 2431 2436 2453 2464
2475 2479 2484
2495 2520 2525 2561 2566 2573 2586 2611
2637 2640 2649 2660 2671 2674 2679 2688 2728 2738 2740 2773 2789 2795 2799 2829 2834 2840 2842
2847 2852 2858 2864 2869 2872 2874

[International agreements other than treaties are continued in Parts 4, 5, and 6 of this Volume. ]

vi

LIST OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

Page

United Kingdom. Claims for damages resulting from acts of members or civilian employees of armed forces ...

Colombia. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Colombia--Mexico. Fisheries mission__ Greece. Aid to Greece _ . Greece. Air transport services__

Brazil and United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Purchase of Brazilian rice

surpluses Canada. Patent rights in connection with RDX and other explosives ..

Turkey. Aid to Turkey ... Peru. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Peru__ Austria. Relief assistance__.

Lebanon. Air transport services .

El Salvador. Military aviation mission. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . Intergovernmental claims. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Marine transportation and litigation . Greece. Relief assistance_

Canada. Termination of reciprocal trade agreement signed Dec. 13, 1940, relating to fox furs and skins ..

Union of South Africa. Air transport services .. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Air transport services on routes to
and from Fiji Island ...

United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Airport, Newfoundland .......
Chile. Commercial relations_. Haiti. Haitian finances__ Norway. Passport visa fees .

Air transport services, Gander

Ecuador. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Ecuador .. Honduras. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Honduras ..

Peru. Cooperative food production program in Peru.. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Standardization of distance measuring
equipment for telecommunications .

Italy. Foreign relief program in Italy. Siam . Exchange of official publications__ Multilateral. Distribution of German reparation , establishment of inter-allied reparation

agency, and restitution of monetary gold .. Portugal. Air transport services .. France, United Kingdom, and Sweden. Liquidation of German property in Sweden . United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and Italy. Transfer to Italian Govern-
ment of gold captured at Fortezza Austria. Air transport services__

Ecuador. Cooperative educational program in Ecuador Venezuela. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Venezuela_ Philippines. Military assistance to Philippines Guatemala. United States armed forces in Guatemala_ _

France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and Italy. Liquidation of German property in Italy.
United Nations. Trusteeship for former Japanese mandated islands . Iran. Military mission to Iran .. France. Restoration of certain industrial property rights affected by World War II.

i

Ecuador. Exchange of official publications__ Peru. Cooperative food production program in Peru ..

2876 2880 2903 2907 2937
2943 2949 2953 2961 2970 2987 3002 3012 3014 3017
3054 3057
3089
3092 3094 3097 3101 3103 3114 3123
3131 3135 3154
3157 3185 3191
3239 3241 3257 3271 3283 3289
3292 3301 3306 3316 3322 3326

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

FIRST SESSION OF THE EIGHTIETH CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, January 3, 1947 , and adjourned sine die on Friday, December 19, 1947
HARRY S. TRUMAN, President ; ARTHUR H. VANDENBERG , President of the Senate pro tempore; JOSEPH W. MARTIN, Jr. , Speaker of the House of Representatives .

Agreement between the United States of America and Turkey respecting air transport services. Signed at Ankara February 12, 1946; effective May 25, 1946, pursuant to an exchange of notes of that date.

February 12, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1538]

AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT

BETWEEN

THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND TURKEY

Having in mind the resolution signed under date of December 7 , 1944, at the International Civil Aviation Conference in Chicago Illinois , for the adoption of a standard form of agreement for provisional air routes and services, ['] and the desirability of mutually stimulating and promoting the sound economic development of air transportation between the United States of America and Turkey, the two Governments parties to this arrangement agree that the establishment and development of air transport services between their respective territories shall be governed by the following provisions :

ARTICLE I

Each contracting party grants to the other contracting party the rights as specified in the Annex hereto necessary for establishing the international civil air routes and services therein described, whether such services be inaugurated immediately or at a later date at the option of the contracting party to whom the rights are granted.

Post, p. 2289.

¹ [Resolution VIII , International Civil Aviation Conference, Chicago, Illinois, November 1 to December 7, 1944, Final Act and Related Documents, Department of State publication 2282 , pp. 39-41 .]
2285

2286

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 Stat.

ARTICLE 2

Inauguration of air services.

(a) Each of the air services so described shall be placed in operation

as soon as the contracting party to whom the rights have been granted

by Article 1 to designate an airline or airlines for the route concerned has authorized an airline for such route, and the contracting party

granting the rights shall, subject to Article 6 hereof, be bound to give

the appropriate operating permission to the airline or airlines con-

cerned ; provided that the airlines so designated may be required to

qualify before the competent aeronautical authorities of the contract-

ing party granting the rights under the laws and regulations nor-

mally applied by these authorities before being permitted to engage

in the operations contemplated by this agreement ; and provided that

in areas of hostilities or of military occupation, or in areas affected

thereby, such inauguration shall be subject to the approval of the competent military authorities.

(b) It is understood that either contracting party granted commercial rights under this agreement should exercise them at the

earliest practicable date except in the case of temporary inability to do so.

ARTICLE 3

Prevention of discrimination, etc.

In order to prevent discriminatory practices and to assure equality

of treatment, both contracting parties agree that:

(a) Each of the contracting parties may impose or permit to be imposed just and reasonable charges for the use of public airports and other facilities under its control. Each of the contracting parties agrees, however, that these charges shall not be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services.
(b) Fuel, lubricating oils and spare parts introduced into the territory of one contracting party by the other contracting party or its nationals, and intended solely for use by aircraft of such other contracting party shall, with respect to the imposition of customs duties, inspection fees or other national duties or charges by the contracting party whose territory is entered , be accorded the same treatment as that applying to national airlines and to airlines of the most favored nation.

Post, p. 2289.

(c) The fuel, lubricating oils, spare parts, regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board civil aircraft of the airlines of one
contracting party authorized to operate the routes and services described in the Annex shall, upon arriving in or leaving the territory of the other contracting party, be exempt from customs, inspection fees or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used or consumed by such aircraft on flights in that territory.

ARTICLE 4

Certificates of air. worthiness, etc.

Certificates of airworthiness, certificates of competency and licenses

issued or rendered valid by one contracting party shall be recognized

as valid by the other contracting party for the purpose of operating

61 STAT.] TURKEY-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-FEB. 12, 1946

2287

the routes and services described in the Annex. Each contracting party reserves the right, however, to refuse to recognize, for the purpose of flight above its own territory, certificates of competency and licenses granted to its own nationals by another State.

Post, p. 2289.

ARTICLE 5

(a) The laws

and regulations

of one

contracting party relating

Laws and regulations.

to the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged

in international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of

such aircraft while within its territory, shall be applied to the air-

craft of the other contracting party, and shall be complied with by such aircraft upon entering or departing from or while within the territory of the first party.

(b) The laws and regulations of one contracting party as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers, crew, or

cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance,

immigration, passports, customs, and quarantine shall be complied

with by or on behalf of such passengers , crew or cargo of the other

contracting party upon entrance into or departure from, or while within the territory of the first party.

ARTICLE 6
Each contracting party reserves the right to withhold or revoke ocWaititohnhoolfdicnegrtoirfirceavt-e a certificate or permit to an airline of the other party in any case or permit. where it is not satisfied that substantial ownership and effective control are vested in nationals of either party to this agreement, or in case of failure of an airline to comply with the laws of the State over which it operates as described in Article 5 hereof, or to perform its obligations under this agreement.

ARTICLE 7

Registration of This agreement and all contracts connected therewith shall be agreement.
registered with the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization.

ARTICLE 8

Either contracting party may terminate the rights for services granted by it under this agreement and its Annex by giving one year's notice to the other contracting party.

Termination of rights for services.

ARTICLE 9
Modification of In the event either of the contracting parties considers it desirable routes or conditions
set forth in Annex. to modify the routes or conditions set forth in the attached Annex,
it may request consultation between the competent authorities of
both contracting parties, such consultation to begin within a period of sixty days from the date of the request. When these authorities
mutually agree on new or revised conditions affecting the Annex,
their recommendations on the matter will come into effect after they have been confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes.

2288

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Effective date. Post, p. 2296.

ARTICLE 10
The effective date of this agreement shall be established through an exchange of notes, which shall take place at Ankara as soon as possible.

In witness whereof the undersigned representatives, duly authorized

by their respective Governments, have signed the present agreement

and have affixed thereto their seals.

Authentic lan-

guages .

Done at Ankara in duplicate, in the English and Turkish languages ,

each of which shall be of equal authenticity , this 12th day of February ,

1946 .

For the Government of the United States of America:

EDWIN C. WILSON

For the Turkish Government : [ SEAL]

FERIDUN CEMAL ERKIN [ SEAL ]

61 STAT. ] TURKEY-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-FEB. 12, 1946
ANNEX TO THE AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND TURKEY
A. Airlines of the United States of America authorized under the present agreement are accorded the rights of transit and non-traffic stop in Turkish territory, as well as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers , cargo and mail at Istanbul and Ankara on the route or routes indicated below:
"From the United States, via intermediate points to the continent of Europe and to Istanbul and Ankara, and thence to points beyond ; in both directions " .
B. Airlines of Turkey authorized under the present agreement are accorded in the territory of the United States of America corresponding rights of transit and non-traffic stop as well as corresponding rights of international commercial traffic on a specific route or routes to be determined at a later date.
C. It is agreed that either contracting party, before placing an airline in operation, will notify to the other party the proposed directions of entry into and exit from its territory, whereupon the other party will indicate the points of entry and exit and the route to be followed within its territory.

2289

2290

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

AMERKA BRLEK DEVLETLER LE TÜRKYE ARASINDA
HAVA NAKLYATINA DAR ANLAMA
Muvakkat hava yollari ve servisleri için bir standard anlama ekli kabul edilmesi simminda Illinois eyaletinde ikago ehrinde akdedilen Milletlerarasi Sivil Havacilik Konferansinda 7 Aralik 1944 tarihinde imzalanan karari ve Amerika Birleik Devletleri ile Türkiye arasinda hava nakliyatinin ekonomik bakimdan salam bir aurette gelimesini karilikli olarak kolaylatirmanin ve tevik etmenin arzuya deer olduumu göz önünde tutarak, bu anlamayi akdeden iki Hükümet, kendi ülkeleri arasindaki hava nakliyatinin aaidaki hükümlere göre kurulmasi ve gelimesi hususunda mutabik kalmilardir :
MADDE 1 Akid Taraflar, bu Anlamanin Ekinde gösterilen milletlerarasi sivil hava yollarinin ve servislerinin kurulmasi için lâzim gelip mezkûr Ekde musarrah bulunan haklari birbirlerine bahederler; bu servislere, ibu haklar kendisine verilen Akid Tarafin ihtiyarim göre, ister derhal ister daha sonra balanilmi olmasi bahçedilen baklari ihlal etmes.
MADDE 2 (a) Bu suretle tarif edilen hava servislerinin her biri , birinci madde gereince kendisine mevsuubaha yol için bir veya bir kaç hava hattini tayin hakki bahçedilmi olan Akid Taraf bu yol üzerinde bir hava hattina ruhsat verir vermes, iletilmiye balanacak ve haklari bahçeden Akid Taraf, 6.nci madde hükümleri mahfuz kalmak artiyle, ilgili hava hattina veya hatlarina gereken iletme minadesini vermekle mükellef olacakdir; qu kadar ki, böylece tâyin edilen hava batlarindan, bu Anlamada derpi edilen faaliyete balamlarina müsaade edilmeden önce, haklari veren Akid Tarafin yetkili hava makamlarina,
bu makamlar ....

61 STAT. ] TURKEY-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-FEB. 12, 1946

2291

bu makamlar tarafindan umumiyetle tatbik edilen kanun ve nizamlar gere-

ince ehliyetlerini isbat etmeleri istenebilecekdir; muhasemat veya

askerî igal sahalarinda veya bu kabil ahvalin tesiri altinda bulunan

sahalarda bu ekilde faaliyete balamak keyfiyeti yetkili askerî makamlarin tasvibine tâbi olacakdir.

(b) urasi mukarrerdir ki, ibu Anlama gereince kendilerine

ticarî haklar bahedilen Akid Taraflardan her biri , bunlari, muvakkat

imkânsizlik halleri müstesna , mümkün olan en kisa bir zamanda istimâle

baliyacakdir.

MADDE 3

Tatbikatta herhangi bir farkli muameleye meydan vermemek ve

eitlii salamak maksadiyle Akid Taraflar aaidaki hususlarda mutabikdirlar :

(a) Skid Taraflardan her biri , kendi kontrolu altindaki umumî

hava meydanlarinin kullanilmasi ve diger kolayliklardan faydalanma

karilikli olarak hakli ve makûl milkellefiyetler tarhetmekde veya

ettirmekde serbesttir. Ancak, Akid Taraflardan her biri bu mükell8-

fiyetlerin, ayni ekilde milletlerarasi servisler yapan kendi millî

uçaklarinca ibu hava meydanlarinin kullanilmasi ve kolayliklardan

faydalanma için ödenilmesi icabeden mikdardan daha fazla olmamasini kabul eder.
(b) Akid Taraflardan birinin ülkesinde diger Akid Tarafca veya

bunun tebaasinca ithal edilip minhasiran kendi uçaklari tarafindan istimale mahsus olan yakit, makina yalari ve yedek parçalar için

gümrük resmi, muayene ücreti veya diger millî resim veya mükellefiyetler tarhi hususunda , ülkesine ibu ithalat yapilmi olan Tarafca millî hatlara ve en ziyade misaadeye mashar milletin hatlarina tatbik edilen muamele tatbik edilecekdir.

(c) Ekde tarif olunan yollari ve servisleri iletmiye mezun

olan Akid Tarafin hava hatlarina aid sivil uçaklarda bulunan yakit, makina ....

2292

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

makina yalari , yedek parçalar, mutâd techizat ve uçak komanyasi , anilan uçaklar tarafindan öteki Akid Tarafin ülkesi üzerindeki uçularda kullanilsa veya sarfedilse bile, o ülkeye giri ve çikida gümrük resmi , muayene ücreti veya buna benzer resim ve mükellefiyetlerden muaf tutulacakdir.

MADDE Akid Taraflardan birinin verdii veya muteber olduunu tasdik eyledii uçua elverililik vesikalari , ehliyetnâmeler ve ruhsatiyeler Ekde gösterilen hava yollarinin ve servislerinin iletilmesi için diger Akid Tarafca da muteber olarak tanilacakdir. Ancak, Akid Taraflardan her biri , kendi tebaasina baka bir Devlet tarafindan verilmi ehliyetnameleri ve ruhsatiyeleri kendi ülkesi üzerinde uçu için muteber tanimakdan istinkaf etmek hakkini muhafaza eder.

MADDE 5

(a) Skid Taraflardan birinin milletlerarasi hava seyrseferinde

iliyen uçaklarin kendi ülkesine giri ve çikii hakkindaki , veya bu

uçaklarin kendi ülkesinde iken iletilmesi ve seyräseferi ile ilgili

kanum ve nizamlari , diger Akid Tarafin uçaklarina da tatbik edilecek-

tir. Birinci Tarafin ülkesine giri ve çiki esnasinda veya o ülkede

bulunduklari müddetce , bu kanun ve nizamlara, anilan uçaklarca riayet

olunacakdir.

(b) Akid Taraflardan birinin ülkesine uçak yolcusu , mürettebati

veya hamulesinin sokulmasi ve bunlarin o ülkeden ayrilmasi ile ilgili

giri, çiki, göçmen , pasaport , gümrük ve karantina ileri gibi husu-

sata müteallik kanun ve nizamlara , gerek ibu tarafin ülkesine giri

ve çikida , gerekse o ülke dahilinde iken, öteki Akid Tarafin yolcu-

lari ve mürettebati tarafindan veya onlar namina riayet edilecek ve

ayni keyfiyet hamûle hakkinda da varid olacaktir.

MADDE 6 ....

61 STAT.] TURKEY-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-FEB, 12, 1946
MADDE
Akid Taraflardan herbiri, diger Tarafa ait bir hava hattinin esas mülkiyeti ile filî kontrolünün bu Anlamayi akteden Taraflardan birinin tebaasinin elinde bulunduuna kanaat getirmedii hallerde veya bir hava hattinin, ülkesinde faaliyette bulunduu Devletin kapunlarina 5.nci maddede tarif olunduu vechile riayet etmedii veya bu Anlamadan doan vecibelerini yerine getirmedii taktirde, ibu hatta ruhsatiye veya müsaade vermemek veya bunlari geri almak hakkini 1 muhafaza eder.
MADDE 7 Bu Anlama ve bununla ilgili bütün mukaveleler Milletlerarasi Sivil Havacilik Geçici Tekilâti nezdinde tescil ettirilecekdir.
MADDE 8 Akid Taraflardan her biri , öteki Akid Tarafa bir yil önceden haber vermek suretiyle, bu Anlama ve Eki ile bahettii hava servisi haklarina nihayet verebilir. MADDE 9 Akid Taraflardan biri , iliik Ekde gösterilen yollarin veya artlarin deitirilmesini arzuya deger gördüü taktirde , her iki Tarafin yetkili makamlari arasinda istiare yapilmasini istiyebilir, ve bu istiare, istek tarihinden itibaren 60 gün içinde balar. Anilan makamlar arasinda Eke tesir eden yeni veya deitirilmi artlar üzerinde uyuulduu taktirde , onlarin bu meselede tavsiye ettikleri hususlar diplomatik Nota teatisiyle teyid edildikden sonra yürürlüe girer .
MADDE 10 bu Anlamanin yürürlüe giri tarihi mümkün olduu kadar kisa bir zamanda Ankara'da Nota teatisi suretiyle tâyin edilecekdir.
Yukaridakileri ....

2293

95347° 49-- PT. III-

2294

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Yukaridakileri tasdiken, imzalari aaida bulunan ve hükümetleri tarafindan usuli dairesinde yetkilendirilmi olan temsilciler ibu Anlamayi imzalayip mühürlemilerdir.
Ankarada, 1946 yili ubat ayinin on ikisinde, ingilizce ve türkçe olarak ve her iki lisandaki metin ayni derecede muteber olmak üzere ikiger nilisha olarak tanzim edilmidir.

Amerika Birleik Devletleri Hükümeti pamina in & Libon

nt

Türkiye Cumhuriyeti Hükümeti namina ra

fe

un

61 STAT. ] TURKEY-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- FEB. 12, 1946

2295

AMERKA BRLEK DEVLETLER LE TÜRKYE ARASINDA
HAVA NAKLYATI ANLAMASINA BK
A. bu Anlaim gereince mezun kilinmi olan Amerika Birleik Devletleri Hava hatlarina Türkiye ülkesinde transit ve teknik tevakkuf hakki , ve aaida gösterilen yolu veya yollari takiben stanbul ve Ankara'da milletlerarasi yolcu, yük ve posta almak ve boaltmak hakki verilmidir :
Her iki istikamette olmak üzere: Birleik Devletlerden, mutavassit noktalar tarikiyle, Avrupa kitasina ve Istanbul ve Ankara'ya, ve oradan daha ileri noktalara." B. Bu Anlama gereince mezun kilinmi olan Türkiye hava hatlarina da, Amerika Birleik Devletleri ülkesinde ayni transit ve teknik tevakkuf ve ileride teabit edilecek muayyen yol veya yollari takiben ayni milletlerarasi ticarî seyrülsefer haklari verilmidir. C. urasi mukarrerdir ki Akid Taraflardan her biri bir hava hatti iletmee balamazdan önce, diger Akid Tarafa , onun ülkesine giri ve ülkesinden çiki için mutasavver istikmetleri bildirecek ve bunun üzerine diger Taraf giri ve çiki noktalari ile ülkesinde têkib edilecek olan uçu yolunu gösterecekdir.

2296 Ante, p. 2288.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT

The Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

TÜRKIYE CUMHURIYETI HARICIYE VEKALETI

45610-110 MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR,

ANKARA, le 25 Mai 1946

Me référant à l'article 10 de l'Accord relatif aux transports aériens

entre le Gouvernement de la République Turque et le Gouvernement

des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, signé à Ankara en date du 12 Février

1946 , j'ai l'honneur de proposer à Votre Excellence au nom de mon

Gouvernement que la date de la mise en vigueur de l'Accord précité soit fixée au 25 Mai 1946.

Je prie Votre Excellence , de bien vouloir me confirmer l'accord du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique sur ce qui précède .

Veuillez agréer, Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, les assurances de ma très haute considération .

Excellence

HASAN SAKA

Monsieur EDWIN C. WILSON, Ambassadeur des Etats- Unis d'Amérique Ankara .

The American Ambassador to the Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 757

Ankara, May 25, 1946

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's note No. 45610-110 dated May 25 , 1946 reading as follows :

"Mr. Ambassador:

"With reference to Article 10 of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Turkish Republic and the Government of the United States of America, signed at Ankara on February 12 , 1946 , I have the honor to propose to your Excellency on behalf of my Government that the date of entry into effect of the above mentioned agreement be May 25 , 1946 .

"I request, Mr. Ambassador, that you be good enough to give me confirmation of the agreement of the Government of the United States of America with the foregoing.
"Please accept, etc.,"

I take pleasure in informing your Excellency that my Government is in agreement with the foregoing.

Please accept Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration .

His Excellency M. HASAN SAKA,

EDWIN C. WILSON

Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ankara .

61 STAT. ] POLAND- FOREIGN SERVICE PERSONNEL OCT. 5, 30, 1945

2297

Agreement between the United States of America and Poland respecting reciprocal customs privileges for foreign service personnel. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Warsaw October 5 and 30, 1945; effective October 30, 1945.

October 5 and 30 , 1945 [T. I. A. S. 1544]

The American Ambassador to the Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs

No. 67

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Warsaw, October 5, 1945

EXCELLENCY : Pursuant to my note no. 55 of September 26, 1945 to Your Ex-
cellency regarding the proposed opening of several American consular offices in Poland and the functioning of Polish consular offices in the United States, I am instructed to deliver the following communication to Your Excellency :
In accordance with instructions from my Government, I have the honor to inquire whether the Polish Provisional Government of National Unity is disposed to enter into an agreement whereby on the basis of reciprocity, in addition to free entry of baggage and effects upon arrival and return to their posts in the United States after visits abroad which Polish consular officers assigned to the United States already enjoy, the Department of State will arrange, upon request of the Polish Embassy in each instance, for the free entry of articles imported for their personal use during their official residence in the United States by Polish consular officers and their families and by Polish Embassy and Consular clerks. It is understood that such officers and clerks shall be Polish nationals and not engaged in any private occupations for gain and that no article for the importation of which is prohibited by the laws of the United States shall be imported by them. If agreeable to this, it is suggested that October 30, 1945 shall be set as the date on which this reciprocal agreement shall become effective.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
ARTHUR BLISS LANE
His Excellency WINCENTY RZYMOWSKI , Minister of Foreign Affairs.

2298

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

Nr.K.I.424

WARSZAWA, dnia 30 padziernika 1945

Ekscelencjo :

W odpowiedzi na not Waszej Ekscelencji z dnia 5.X.1945 r . Nr.67 , dotyczcej porozumienia

w sprawie wolnego od oplat celnych przywozu towarów przez czlonków konsulatów dla osobistego uytku przez nich samych i czlonków ich rodzin pozwalam sobie zakomunikowa co nastpuje :
Rzd Jednoci Narodowej wyraa zgod na to ,

by na zasadzie wzajemnoci czlonkowie Ambasady Stanów Zjednoczonych Ameryki oraz czlonkowie majcych si otworzy konsulatów amerykaskich w Polsce i ich rodziny korzystali z wolnego od oplat celnych przywozu towarów niezalenie od istniejcego ju porozumienia dotyczcego wolnego wwozu bagau i rzeczy przy przyjedzie na swoje placówki konsularne , jeeli s obywatelami Stanów Zjednoczonych Ameryki i nie oddaj si prywatnym zajciom dla zysku na terenie Polski .
Do odprawy przesylek nadchodzcych pod adresem Konsulatów Stanów Zjednoczonych Ameryki

w Gdasku-Gdyni , Lodzi , Krakowie , Wroclawiu , Pozn .

niu i Szczecinie wyznaczone bd urzdy celne w Warszawie , Gdasku , Krakowie , Wroclawiu , Poznaniu i Lodzi , w Szczecinie zas po otworzeniu tam

61 STAT. ] POLAND FOREIGN SERVICE PERSONNEL-OCT. 5, 30, 1945 Urzdu Celnego . Na kade danie Ambasady Stanów Zjednoczonych Ministerstwo Spraw Zagranicznych zalatwi spraw wolnego od oplat celnych przywozu towarów , oczywicie jeeli sprowadzanie ich nie jest zakazane przez polskie ustawodawstwo . Rzd Jednoci Narodowej wyraa równie zgod na proponowan dat 30.X.1945 , od której to wzajemne porozumienie stanie si skuteczne . Korzystam ze sposobnoci , by zapewni Wasz Ekscelencj o moim najglbszym powaaniu

2299

Minister
2 Chookers
Jego Ekscelencja ARTHUR BLISS-LANE Ambasador Stanów Zjednoczonych

2300 Ante, p. 2297.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Translation

No. K. I. 424 b/1

WARSAW, October 30, 1945

EXCELLENCY :

In reply to Your Excellency's note no. 67 of October 5, 1945 , regarding an agreement for the duty-free importation of goods by members of consulates for their own personal use and that of the members of

their families, I respectfully communicate to you the following :

The Government of National Unity agrees that on the basis of reciprocity members of the Embassy of the United States of America , as well as members and their families of American consulates yet to be opened in Poland, would benefit by the duty-free importation of goods, independently of an agreement already in existence regarding the free entry of baggage and effects upon arrival at their consular posts, if they are citizens of the United States of America and will not engage in private occupations for gain on the territory of Poland.
Customs offices at Warsaw, Gdask, Krakow, Wroclaw, Poznan and Lodz, and at Szczecin after the customs office there is opened , will be instructed to expedite shipments directed to the Consulates of the United States of America at Gdask-Gdynia , Lodz , Krakow, Wroclaw, Poznan and Szczecin.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will arrange, upon the request of the American Embassy in each instance, the duty - free entry of goods if, of course, the importation thereof is not prohibited by Polish law.
The Government of National Unity at the same time expresses agreement with the proposed date of October 30 , 1945 as the date on which this reciprocal agreement shall become effective.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
Minister Z MODZELEWSKI His Excellency ARTHUR BLISS LANE

Ambassador of the United States

61 STAT. ]

BRAZIL- RURAL EDUCATION- Jan. 21 , 1946 Feb. 15, 1946

2301

Agreement between the United States of America and Brazil respecting a cooperative program of rural education in Brazil. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Rio de Janeiro January 21 and February 15, 1946; effective January 1 , 1946.

Januarruyary21 1a5,nd194F6eb[T. I. A. S. 1549]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Brazilian Minister of

Foreign Affairs EMBASSY OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

N° 375

Rio de Janeiro, January 21 , 1946

EXCELLENCY,

I have the honor to refer to Resolution Nº 28 adopted by the First Conference of Ministers and Directors of Education of the American

Republics held in Panamá in September and October of 1943 and to our conversations relative to a certain cooperative program in Rural Education which might be undertaken between the Governments of the United States of Brazil and the United States of America.
I have also the honor to refer to the informal conversations relative

to such a cooperative program in Rural Education held between representatives of the Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture and representatives of the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. , a corporation of the Office of Inter-American Affairs and an agency of the Government of the United States of America.

In accordance with the antecedents under reference, the InterAmerican Educational Foundation , Inc., has entered into an agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture for a cooperative program in the field of Rural Education. Under the terms of this agreement

the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , will make availa-

ble for said cooperative program the sum of Two Hundred and Fifty Thousand ($250,000.00) Dollars U.S. Currency, and the Ministry of Agriculture will contribute the equivalent in Brazilian currency of

Seven Hundred and Fifty Thousand ($ 750,000.00) Dollars U.S. currency, this amount to be in addition to the regular budget of the Government of Brazil for rural education .

This cooperative program will be carried out by a special organization created within the Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture and pursuant to specific project agreements which will define the kind of work to be undertaken and the cost thereof and which will be signed by an

appropriate official of the Inter-American Educational Foundation ,

Inc. , and by an appropriate official of the Ministry of Agriculture. It is understood that the Government of the United States of

America will furnish through the Inter-American Educational Foun-

dation, Inc., such educators , specialists and technicians as it may consider appropriate in order to collaborate with Brazilian educators , specialists and technicians in the realization of this cooperative educational program.

Post, p. 2305.

2302

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
All materials, equipment and property acquired in connection with this program shall remain the property of the Government of Brazil upon the conclusion of the agreement referred to above, which agreement is expected to terminate on June 30 , 1948.
I should appreciate it if Your Excellency would be so kind as to confirm to me your approval of this cooperative agreement which was signed on October 20th, 1945, by the Minister of Agriculture and by the President of the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , and which embodies the details relative to the establishment and the methods of fulfillment of this cooperative educational program .
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration.
PAUL C. DANIELS Chargé d'Affaires ad interim His Excellency Dr. PEDRO LEÃO VELLOSO Minister for Foreign Affairs Rio de Janeiro .

The Brazilian Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DAS RELAÇÕES EXTERIORES ,

URGENTE DEC/SEB/DAI/38/542.22(22)

RIO DE JANEIRO . Em 15 de fevereiro de 1946.

SENHOR EMBAIXADOR,

Tenho a honra de acusar o recebimento da nota dessa Embaixada,

nº 375 , de 21 de janeiro último, relativa a um programa de cooperação sôbre ensino rural entre os Estados Unidos do Brasil e os Estados

Unidos da América, o qual foi objeto de Acôrdo celebrado entre a "Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. ", e o Ministério da Agricultura do Brasil.

2. Ficou estabelecido no referido Acôrdo que a "Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. " corporação do Escritório de Negócios Interamericanos e repartição do Governo dos Estados Unidos da América, concorrerá para a execução dêsse programa com a soma de US$ 250.000,00 (duzentos e cinquenta mil dólares ) , moeda americana, e o Ministério da Agricultura contribuirá com a quantia, em moeda brasileira, equivalente a US$ 750.000,00 (setecentos e cinquenta mil dólares ) , quantia esta que não se confundirá com o orçamento regular do Governo brasileiro para a educação rural .

3. Esse programa de cooperação será levado a efeito por um organismo especial, a ser criado no Ministério da Agricultura, e obedecerá a projetos específicos que definirão a espécie de trabalho a ser executado e o custo respectivo . Esses projetos deverão ser assinados pelos funcionários representantes da "Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc." e do Ministério da Agricultura.

61 STAT.]

Jan. 21 , 1946 BRAZIL-RURAL EDUCATION- Feb. 15, 1946

4. O Governo dos Estados Unidos da América fornecerá, por intermédio da "Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. ", os educadores, especialistas e técnicos que, na sua opinião , devam colaborar com os seus colegas brasileiros na execução do programa previsto . 5. O material, o equipamento e os bens adquiridos em virtude dêste plano continuarão sob a propriedade do Governo do Brasil , quando expirar o acordo aqui referido , o que deverá ocorrer a 30 de junho de 1948 .
6. Em resposta, cabe-me confirmar a Vossa Excelência haver o Governo brasileiro concordado com o mencionado Acôrdo sôbre
educação rural, o qual , assinado a 20 de outubro último pelo Ministro da Agricultura e pelo Presidente da "Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. ", dispõe acêrca do estabelecimento dêsse programa e dos métodos de pô-lo em prática.
Aproveito a oportunidade para renovar a Vossa Excelência os protestos da minha mais alta consideração.
JOÃO NEVES DA FONTOURA

A Sua Excelência o Senhor ADOLF BERLE Jr. , Embaixador dos Estados Unidos da América.

Translation

URGENT DEC/SEB/DAI/38/524.22(22)

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS, RIO DE JANEIRO. February 15, 1946.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your Embassy's note No. 375, of January 21st last, relative to a program of cooperation in Rural Education between the United States of Brazil and the United States of America, and which was the subject of an Agreement

entered into by the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , and the Ministry of Agriculture of Brazil . 2. It was established in the said Agreement that the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. , a corporation of the Office of InterAmerican Affairs and an agency of the Government of the United States of America, will make available for the execution of that program a sum of $250,000.00 (two hundred and fifty thousand dollars) , United States currency, and the Ministry of Agriculture will contribute the equivalent in Brazilian currency of $750,000.00 (seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars) , this amount to be in addition to the regular budget of the Brazilian Government for rural education .

3. This cooperative program will be carried out by a special organization to be created within the Ministry of Agriculture , and pursuant

to the specific project agreements which will define the kind of work to be undertaken and the cost thereof. These project agreements

will be signed by the officials representing the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. and the Ministry of Agriculture.

2303

2304

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
4. The Government of the United States of America will furnish through the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , such educators, specialists and technicians as it may consider appropriate in order to collaborate with their Brazilian colleagues in the realization of the foregoing program.
5. The material , equipment and property acquired by virtue of this plan shall remain the property of the Government of Brazil upon the conclusion of the agreement referred to above, which agreement is expected to terminate on June 30, 1948. 6. In reply, I have to confirm to Your Excellency the fact that the Brazilian Government has approved the aforementioned Agreement on rural education which, signed on October 20th last, by the Minister of Agriculture and by the President of the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. , embodies the details relative to the establishment and the methods of fulfillment of this cooperative educational program .
I avail myself of this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
JOÃO NEVES DA FONTOURA
His Excellency ADOLF BERLE Jr. , Ambassador of the United States of America.

61 STAT. ]

BRAZIL-RURAL EDUCATION- Jan. 21 , 1946 Feb. 15, 1946

2305

AGREEMENT ON RURAL EDUCATION BETWEEN THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE OF THE UNITED STATES OF BRAZIL AND THE INTERAMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC.

The Ministry of Agriculture of the United States of Brazil (hereinafter called the Ministry of Agriculture) and the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc., a corporation of the Office of InterAmerican Affairs and an agency of the Government of the United States of America (hereinafter called the "Foundation" ) , have decided to enter into the following agreement to undertake a cooperative educational program to promote Inter-American understanding by bringing about a better interchange of educators , educational ideas and methods between Brazil and the United States of America, pursuant to Resolution 28 adopted by the First Conference of Ministers and Directors of Education of the American Republics held in Panama in September and October of 1943. [ ]

Clause I
The objectives of this cooperative educational program are :
a) the development of closer relations between teachers of vocational agriculture in the United States of Brazil and the United States of America ;
b) the interchange and training of Brazilian and American specialists in vocational agriculture ;
c) the development of such other projects in the field of rural education as may be of mutual interest to the parties.

Objectives.

Clause II
The methods of carrying out the said cooperative educational program are expected to include :

Methods.

A. The furnishing by the Foundation of a small Field Staff of specialists in vocational agriculture to collaborate in the realization of the cooperative educational program ;
B. The development and realization , in cooperation with various Brazilian authorities, of programs related to : 1. Studies and surveys relative to the educational needs of Brazil and of the United States of America, especially in the field of vocational agriculture, and of the resources which are available to meet them ;
2. Grants to permit Brazilian administrators , educators , and special service personnel to go to the United States of America to study, to lecture, to teach and to interchange ideas and

¹ [Not printed. ]

2306

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

experiences with administrators , educators, and specialists in the United States of America;
3. The organization and development of teacher training programs in vocational agriculture ; 4. The purchase of equipment, the preparation of teaching materials, and the development of such media as the radio, films, rural missions, bookmobiles and circulating museums; C. The use of whatever other methods and means which may be mutually considered appropriate for the realization of the objectives of this cooperative educational program.

Clause III

Field Staff.

The Field Staff of the Foundation, mentioned in Clause II, Section A, of this agreement, shall be of such size as the Foundation shall deem advisable and shall be under the direction of an official of the Foundation who shall have the title of "Special Representative ,

Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc." (hereinafter called

the "Special Representative of the Foundation " ) and who shall be the representative in Brazil of the Foundation in connection with

the program to be undertaken in accordance with this agreement.

The Special Representative and the other members of the Field Staff

of the Foundation shall be acceptable to the Minister of State of

Agriculture .

Clause IV

Establishment of special Commission There shall be created as an integral part of the Ministry of Agri-

("CBAR" ) .

culture of Brazil a special Commission , which shall have the name of

"Comissão Brasileiro-Americana de Educação das Populações Rurais" (hereinafter referred to as the "CBAR" ) and which shall act as the

executing body in the realization of the cooperative educational program . The Superintendente do Ensino Agrícola e Veterinário of

the Ministry of Agriculture of Brazil shall be Superintendent of the CBAR. The Special Representative of the Foundation shall partici-

pate in the CBAR with the designation of "United States of America

Representative in the CBAR", and the other members of the Field

Staff of the Foundation shall participate in the activities of the CBAR and of the cooperative educational programa in general in

such capacities as shall be determined by mutual agreement between

the Superintendent of the CBAR and the Special Representative of the Foundation.

Clause V

Program .

A. The cooperative educational program shall consist of individual

Project Agreements. projects. Each project shall be embodied in a written Project Agree-

ment which shall be mutually agreed upon and signed by the Super-

intendent of the CBAR and the Special Representative of the Foun-

dation and which shall define the kind of work to be done, the alloca-

tion of funds therefor and the parties responsible for execution and

Selection of Brazilian Specialists.

such other matters as the parties mentioned shall desire to include. B. The selection of Brazilian Specialists to be sent to the United
States of America pursuant to this program, as well as the programs

61 STAT. ]

Jan. 21 , 1946
BRAZIL- RURAL EDUCATIONFeb. 15, 1946

2307

of training which they shall follow, shall be made by mutual written

agreement between the Superintendent of the CBAR and the Special
Representative of the Foundation . Policies and pro-
C. The general policies and procedures governing the realization of cedures.

the cooperative educational program , the carrying out of the projects ,

and the operations of the CBAR such as , the disbursement and ac-

counting of funds, the purchase, use, inventory, control and disposi-

tion of property, the appointment and discharge of personnel of the

CBAR and their conditions of employment, and any other adminis-

trative matters , shall be determined and established by mutual written

agreement between the Superintendent of the CBAR and the Special

Representative of the Foundation . All contracts of the CBAR , as well as all disbursements from the CBAR bank account, shall bear

the joint signatures of the Superintendent of the CBAR and of the

Special Representative of the Foundation , in his capacity as United

States of America Representative in the CBAR . The books and

records of the CBAR relating to the cooperative educational program

shall be open at all times for inspection by representatives of the Government of Brazil and of the Foundation , and the Superintendent of

Reports.

the CBAR shall render reports to the Government of Brazil and to

the Foundation at such intervals as may be agreed upon between the

Superintendent of the CBAR and the Special Representative of the Foundation .
Clause VI

Projects to be underIt is contemplated that the projects to be undertaken in accord- taken.

ance with this cooperative educational agreement shall include assistance to , and cooperation with other Brazilian Institutions of an official or semi-official character. Funds of the CBAR and other resources

Contributions.

contributed by the parties hereto may be allocated and expended for such purposes upon the authority of written project agreements as provided in the preceding clause. Additional or supplementary contributions of whatever nature or source may be accepted and used for projects in furtherance of this cooperative Educational Agreement.

Clause VII

In

view of the

fact

that

the

CBAR

is

a

part

of the

Ministry

of

Rights and privileges of CBAR.

Agriculture, the CBAR and all its personnel shall enjoy the same

rights and privileges which are enjoyed by other divisions of the

Ministry of Agriculture and by the personnel of the same.

Clause VIII

All

funds ,

materials ,

equipment

and

supplies

acquired

for the

Funds, materials, etc., of CBAR to

CBAR shall become the property of the Government of Brazil and bBreaczoilmiean pGroovpeerrntmyenotf.

shall be devoted to the Program. The Superintendent of the CBAR

and the Special Representative of the Foundation shall determine by

mutual agreement the precise disposition and use of any funds and

any personnel property remaining unobligated or unexpended on the termination of this agreement.

2308

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Clause IX

Salaries and expenses.

A. The Foundation shall determine and pay the salaries and other

expenses directly payable to the members of the Field Staff , as well

as such other committments of an administrative nature as the Founda-

tion may incur in connection with the development of this program , fromthe sum of One Hundred and Twenty-Five Thousand ($ 125,000.00)

Dollars , U.S. Currency, which it will retain and which for the pur-

poses of this agreement shall be denominated the "Administrative

Funds of the Foundation" .

Special bank ac-

count.

B. In addition, the Foundation shall deposit in a special bank

account, in a Brazilian bank mutually agreed upon by the Superin-

tendent of the CBAR and the Special Representative of the Foun-

dation, to the account of the CBAR , the sum of One Hundred

and Twenty-Five Thousand ($ 125,000.00) Dollars, U.S. Currency. These funds, which shall, for the purposes of this agreement, be th"ePFroougnrdaamtiFounn."ds of denominated the "Program Funds of the Foundation ", shall be deposited by the Foundation on the following dates in the following amounts :

During January 1946 During January 1947 During January 1948 Total to be deposited Administrative Funds of the Foundation

U. S. $ 40, 000. 00 U. S. $ 45, 000. 00 U. S. $ 40, 000. 00 U. S. $ 125, 000. 00 U. S. $ 125, 000. 00

Total contribution of the Foundation

U. S. $250,000. 00

Aid by Foundation

in U. S.

C. The Foundation furthermore expresses its intention and willing-

ness to place at the disposition of the cooperative educational program,

whenever in the judgment of the Foundation that may be possible,

the organization and staff of the Foundation in the United States of

America, its knowledge of, and contacts with , cooperating educational agencies in the United States of America and its experience and

special facilities which, within the limitations of available resources , are expected to provide many of the necessary services to enable

Brazilian educators and special service personnel to derive maximum profit from their stay in the United States of America.

Clause X
Deposits by Brazil in special bank ac- The Government of the United States of Brazil, in addition to its count.
regular budget for rural education , shall deposit in the same special
bank account, to the order of the CBAR, the equivalent in Brazilian
currency of Seven Hundred and Fifty Thousand ($750,000.00)
Dollars, U.S. Currency, on the following dates and in the following amounts:

During January 1946 During January 1947 During January 1948 Total to be deposited

U. S. $ 250,000. 00 U. S. $ 250,000. 00 U. S. $ 250,000. 00 U. S. $ 750, 000. 00

61 STAT.]

Jan. 21 , 1946 BRAZIL-RURAL EDUCATION- Feb. 15, 1946

2309

Clause XI Additional aid by
The Government of Brazil , in addition to its contribution as pro- Brazilian Government.
vided herein, shall in agreement with the Special Representative of the Foundation: (a) appoint specialists to collaborate with the Field Staff of the Foundation ; (b) collaborate with the CBAR in making available office space, office equipment, furnishings and other such facilities , materials , equipment, supplies and services as it may conveniently provide for the said program ; and (c) lend the general assistance thereto of the other Departments of the Government of Brazil.
Clause XII
Matching of funds. The funds deposited by either party for any year shall not be drawn until the funds for the same year are deposited by the other
party. Funds deposited by either party and not matched by the required deposit of the other party shall be returned to the contributor.

Clause XIII Availability of
All the funds mentioned in this agreement, that is , of the Govern- funds. ment of Brazil, of the Foundation and of the CBAR, shall continue to be available for the said cooperative educational program during the existence of this agreement, without regard to annual periods or fiscal years of either of the parties .
Clause XIV Interest, etc., on
Interest on funds of the CBAR, and any income, upon investments funds. of the CBAR, and any increment of assets of the CBAR, of whatever nature or source, shall be dedicated to the realization of the program and shall not be credited against the contributions of the Government of Brazil or of the Foundation .

Clause XV Withholding of
In view of the fact that many purchases of materials, supplies, and funds from CBAR bank account.
equipment and other disbursements relating to the execution of the Program, as well as other payments and disbursements on behalf of Brazilian personnel sent on grants to the United States of America, must necessarily be made in the United States of America, the Superintendent of the CBAR and the Special Representative of the Foundation may agree to withhold from the payments to be made by the Foundation into the bank account of the CBAR the amounts deemed to be necessary to pay for such purchases and disbursements in the United States of America. Such amounts shall be considered as if
deposited under the terms of this agreement. Any funds so withheld by the Foundation for such purposes and not expended or obligated therefor shall be deposited in the said bank account at any time upon
the mutual agreement of the Superintendent of the CBAR and the Special Representative of the Foundation.

95347-49- PT. III- -3

2310

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Clause XVI

Surplus administrative funds.

In the event that, upon the expiration of each twelve-month period

of this agreement, calculated from the date of its execution, and again

six months before its expiration , the Foundation deems that the funds,

which it has set aside as "Administrative Funds of the Foundation",

will be more than are needed for that purpose for the entire period of

the program , the Foundation will thereupon advise the Superintendent of the CBAR of the surplus which it can accordingly make available for projects, and such additional sums shall be paid into the bank account of the CBAR or shall be otherwise disposed of pursuant to this Agreement.

Clause XVII

Tax exemption, etc., of funds .

All the funds introduced into Brazil by the Foundation for the purposes of the cooperative educational program shall be exempt from all taxes , service charges, investment or deposit requirements and other currency controls, and shall be converted into Cruzeiros at the most favorable rate of exchange which the Government of Brazil or any of its Agencies or any Brazilian bank concedes to the Govern-

ment of Brazil or to any of its Departments or to any other Nation , organization, or individual. Similarly, where it may be necessary or advisable to convert Cruzeiros into Dollars for the financing of grants

or for other expenditures in the United States of America, the conversion of Cruzeiros into Dollars shall be made at the official rate of

exchange .

Clause XVIII

Exemptions and im-

munities of Founda- The Government of Brazil accepts and recognizes the Foundation

tion.

as a corporate agency of the Government of the United States of

America, having juridic personality, and , accordingly, the Foundation shall be exempt and immune from, among other things, any and all taxes, fees, charges, imposts, and custom duties, whether national , state, provincial or municipal, and from all requirements for licenses . The personnel of the Foundation who are citizens of the United States of America shall be exempt from all Brazilian income taxes and social security taxes with respect to the income on which they are obliged to pay income taxes or social security taxes in the United States of America. Such personnel shall also be exempt from the payment of

customs or other duties on personal effects and on goods , equipment and supplies imported or exported for their own personal use or for the personal use of the members of their families.

Clause XIX

Delegation of au-

thority.

Any right, privilege, power, or duty conferred by this Agreement

upon either the Superintendent of the CBAR or the Special Repre-

sentative of the Foundation may be delegated by the recipient thereof to representatives, provided that each such representative be satis-

factory to the said official of the other Government. But regardless

of the naming of such representatives, the Superintendent of the CBAR

and the Special Representative of the Foundation shall have the right

to refer any matter directly to one another for discussion and decision.

61 STAT. ]

BRAZIL- RURAL EDUCATION- Jan. 21 , 1946 Feb. 15, 1946

2311

Clause XX

The Executive

Power of the Government of Brazil will

take the

Cooperation by Executive Power of

necessary steps to obtain the legislation, decrees , orders, or resolutions GBroazvile. rnment of

necessary to carry out the terms of this agreement.

Clause XXI
This agreement may be amended from time to time, if deemed advisable by the parties hereto , but all amendments shall be in writing and signed by a representative of the Government of Brazil and ofthe Foundation duly authorized thereto .

Amendments.

Clause XXII

This Agreement

shall

becomeeffective the

1st . of January, 1946,

Effective date; period in force; extension.

and shall remain in force through June 30, 1948 , and may be extended

by mutual written agreement. And in pursuance thereto there shall

be an exchange of diplomatic notes between the Ministry of Foreign

Affairs of the United States of Brazil and the Embassy of the United States of America in Brazil.

In Witness Whereof the undersigned, duly authorized thereto , sign the present agreement in duplicate, in the English and Portuguese languages, in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil, this twentieth day of October, nineteen hundred and forty-five.
FOR THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE OF THE UNITED STATES OF BRAZIL APOLONIO JORGE DE FARIA SALLES Minister of State of Agriculture
and

FOR THE INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION , INC. KENNETH HOLLAND President

2312

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ACORDO CELEBRADO ENTRE O MINISTÉRIO DA AGRICULTURA DOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DO BRASIL E A " INTER -AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC. ", SÔBRE A EDUCAÇÃO RURAL.
O Ministério da Agricultura dos Estados Unidos do Brasil (doravante chamado "Ministério da Agricultura") e a "Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. ", corporação subordinada ao "Office of Inter-American Affairs " e, portanto , agência do Govêrno dos Estados Unidos da América (doravante, "Fundação " ) , firmam o presente Acôrdo para a realização de um programa de cooperação educacional, visando maior aproximação inter-americana, mediante intercâmbio intensivo de educadores , idéias e métodos pedagógicos entre ambos países , de conformidade com a Resolução 28 , adotada pela 1ª Conferência de Ministros e Diretores de Educação das Repúblicas Americanas , realizada no Panamá, durante os meses de setembro e outubro de 1943 .
Cláusula I O presente Acôrdo visa:-
a) desenvolver relações mais íntimas entre professores do ensino profissional agrícola dos Estados Unidos do Brasil e dos Estados Unidos da América.
b) facilitar o intercâmbio e o treinamento de brasileiros e americanos especializados em ensino profissional agrícola ;
c) possibilitar que, no setor da educação rural, sejam programadas outras atividades que possam interessar a ambas as partes contratantes . Cláusula II
Para ser levado a efeito, o mencionado programa de cooperação educacional poderá incluir :
a) O fornecimento por parte da Fundação de um pequeno corpo de especialistas em ensino agrícola , para colaborar na realização do
programa cooperativo . b) A preparação e realização, em cooperação com as diversas.
autoridades brasileiras, de programas referentes a:1 - estudos e pesquises que se prendam às necessidades educa-
cionais do Brasil e dos Estados Unidos da América, especialmente no que diz respeito à educação rural e aos recursos disponíveis para tal fim ; 2- concessão de meios que permitam a administradores , educadores e técnicos ir aos Estados Unidos da América , com o fim de estudar, proferir conferências , lecionar e permutar idéias e experiência com seus colegas daquele país ; 3- a realização de programas de treinamento de professores no ramo do ensino profissional agrícola ;

61 STAT. ]

Jan. 21 , 1946
BRAZIL- RURAL EDUCATIONFeb. 15, 1946

4- a aquisição de equipamento , preparação dematerial de ensino, utilização de recursos tais como o rádio , o cinema, as missões rurais , as bibliotecas e os museus circulantes .
c - A utilização de quaisquer outros meios que possam ser considerados , por ambas as partes , convenientes à realização dêste programa de cooperação educacional.

Cláusula III
O corpo de especialistas da Fundação , mencionado na letra (A) da cláusula II dêste Acôrdo , será constituido como aquela entidade julgar preferível e estará sob a direção de um funcionário da mesma , que receberá o título de "Representante Especial da Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. (doravante chamado "Representante Especial da Fundação ") . Esse funcionário atuará como delegado da Fundação no Brasil, para todos os efeitos do presente Acôrdo . Tanto o Representante Especial como cada um dos membros do corpo de especialistas da Fundação devem ser personnae gratae do Ministro de Estado da Agricultura.

Cláusula IV
Será criada, como parte integrante do Ministério da Agricultura, uma comissão especial denominada "Comissão Brasileiro-Americana de Educação das Populações Rurais " (doravante mencionada sob a sigla "C.B.A.R. " ) , que atuará como órgão executivo na realização do programa de cooperação educacional . O Superintendente do Ensino Agrícola e Veterinário do Ministério da Agricultura será o Superintendente da C.B.A.R. e representará o Ministro da Agricultura para todos os efeitos dêste acôrdo . O Representante Especial da Fundação participará da C.B.A.R. com a designação de "Representante Americano junto à C.B.A.R. " Os outros membros do corpo de especialistas da Fundação tomarão parte nas atividades da C.B.A.R. e no programa cooperativo em geral, conforme lhes for determinado em virtude do entendimento entre o Superintendente da C.B.A.R. e o Representante Especial da Fundação.

Cláusula V
A - O programa de cooperação educacional será constituido por meio de projetos para cada caso especial . Cada projeto , corporificado num documento escrito, representará a decisão e conterá as assinaturas do Superintendente da C.B.A.R. e do Representante Especial da Fundação . Os projetos especiais deverão conter a especificação do trabalho a ser realizado e a correspondente distribuição de verbas, além de outros assuntos que as partes contratantes desejarem incluir.
B - A seleção dos especialistas brasileiros que, de conformidade com êste programa, forem enviados aos Estados Unidos da América, será feita mediante acôrdo escrito , efetuado entre o Superintendente da C.B.A.R. e o Representante Especial da Fundação. C- As normas reguladoras da realização do programa de cooperação educacional , a execução dos projetos , as operações da C.B.A.R. (tais

2313

2314

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
como: aplicação e contabilidade de verbas , aquisição , uso, inventário , contrôle e disposição de bens , admissão e dispensa de pessoal, condições de emprêgo) , e quaisquer outros assuntos administrativos , serão determinados e estabelecidos por acôrdo firmado entre o Superintendente da C.B.A.R. e o Representante Especial da Fundação . Todos os contratos da C.B.A.R. , bem como todas as despesas contra a conta bancária da C.B.A.R. , deverão ser assinados pelo Superintendente da Comissão e pelo Representante Especial da Fundação , na sua capacidade de Representante Americano junto à C.B.A.R. Em qualquer tempo, os livros e os arquivos da comissão , referentes ao programa de cooperação educacional, poderão ser inspecionados por autoridades do Govêrno brasileiro ou da Fundação . O Superintendente da C.B.A.R. enviará relatórios ao Govêrno brasileiro e à Fundação em periodos que serão determinados mediante entendimento com o Representante Especial da Fundação .
Cláusula VI
Os programas a serem elaborados e postos em execução conforme estabelece o presente Acôrdo deverão ser organizados de modo a servirem a instituições federais e estaduais , assim como a outras instituições brasileiras , oficiais ou semi-oficiais. Os fundos da C.B.A.R. e os outros recursos fornecidos pelas partes contratantes poderão ser aplicados para esse fim, mediante a autorização conferida pelos projetos especiais a que se refere a cláusula anterior. Poderão também ser aceitas e utilizadas , nesse programa de cooperação educacional , contribuições suplementares ou adicionais , qualquer que seja a sua natureza ou procedência, obedecidas as prescrições dêste Acôrdo .
Cláusula VII
Sendo a C.B.A.R. parte integrante do Ministério da Agricultura, serão conferidos a ela e a todo o seu pessoal todos os direitos e privilégios de que gozem as outras repartições do mesmo Ministério e seus servidores .
Cláusula VIII
As dotações , o material, o equipamento e as instalações pertencentes à C.B.A.R. considerar-se-ão propriedade do Governo brasileiro e serão empregados na execução do programa. O Superintendente da C.B.A.R. e o Representante Especial da Fundação determinarão , por acordo mútuo, o destino a ser dado a quaisquer dos fundos ou bens que permaneçam esobrigados, ou que não tenham sido gastos quando da terminação dêste Acôrdo .
Cláusula IX A Para execução dêste Acôrdo, a Fundação compromete-se a estipular e pagar os salários e outras despesas dos membros do seu corpo de especialistas , bem como quaisquer outros compromissos de natureza administrativa que ela venha a assumir para a execução dêste programa, até um total de US$ .... 125.000,00 dólares , moeda corrente dos Estados Unidos . Essa contribuição ficará retida nos

61 STAT. ]

Jan. 21 , 1946 BRAZIL--RURAL EDUCATION- Feb. 15, 1946

Estados Unidos e , para efeito do presente Acôrdo , será denominada : "Fundos Administrativos da Fundação . "

B - Além disso , a Fundação depositará em conta especial, em Banco

brasileiro escolhido de comum acordo pelo Superintendente da

C.B.A.R. e pelo Representante Especial da Fundação , à ordem da C.B.A.R. , uma quantia de US$ 125.000,00 dólares, moeda corrente

dos Estados Unidos . Esses fundos que, para efeito do presente

Acôrdo, terão o nome de "Fundos para o Programa da Fundação " ,

devem ser por esta depositados , parceladamente , nas seguintes datas :-

No decorrer de janeiro de 1946 No decorrer de janeiro de 1947 No decorrer de janeiro de 1948

US$ 40. 000, 00 US$ 45. 000 , 00 US$ 40. 000, 00

Total a ser depositado Fundos administrativos da Fundação

US$ 125. 000, 00 US$ 125. 000, 00

Contribuição total da Fundação

US$ 250. 000, 00

C - A Fundação manifesta ainda o desejo de colocar à disposição dêste programa cooperativo , sempre que lhe for possível , os elementos e o pessoal de que dispõe nos Estados Unidos , seus conhecimentos e contatos com órgãos empenhados em atividades de cooperação educacional naquele país , além de sua experiência e de facilidades especiais que , dentro da limitação dos recursos disponíveis , poderão ser de grande utilidade a educadores e a técnicos brasileiros , permitindolhes aproveitar ao máximo a sua permanência nos Estados Unidos da América .
Cláusula X

Independentemente das dotações atribuidas em seu orçamento regular para o ensino rural, o Governo brasileiro depositará, parceladamente, na mesma conta especial, à ordem da C.B.A.R. , o equivalente em moeda brasileira a US$ 750.000,00 (setecentos e cinquenta mil dólares, ) moeda corrente americana, observados os seguintes prazos :

No decorrer de janeiro de 1946 No decorrer de janeiro de 1947 No decorrer de janeiro de 1948

US$ 250. 000, 00 US$ 250. 000, 00 US$ 250. 000, 00

Total a ser depositado

US$ 750. 000, 00

Cláusula XI
Além dessa contribuição em dinheiro, o Governo brasileiro , de acordo com o Representante Especial da Fundação, deverá:
a) designar técnicos para colaborar com o corpo de especialistas da Fundação ;
b) colaborar, se lhe for possível, na instalação dos escritórios , aquisição do equipamento e do material de expediente, bem como do que mais se fizer necessário à execução do programa;
c) proporcionar a colaboração e a assistência dos outros departamentos do Governo brasileiro .

2315

2316

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Cláusula XII
As quantias referentes a qualquer ano depositadas por uma das partes contratantes não poderão ser aplicadas antes que a outra parte deposite os fundos correspondentes ao mesmo ano . Os fundos depositados por uma das partes e não completados pela outra serão restituidos ao depositante.
Cláusula XIII
Todos os fundos mencionados neste acôrdo , isto é, do Governo brasileiro , da Fundação e da C.B.A.R. , deverão continuar à disposição do programa cooperativo durante a vigência dêste Acôrdo , independentemente dos exercícios financeiros de qualquer das partes.
Cláusula XIV
Os juros sobre os fundos de C.B.A.R. e tôda renda produzida pelos valores a crédito da Comissão, bem como aumento de ativo , qualquer que seja a sua natureza ou procedência, deverão ser empregados na realização do programa e não poderão servir de motivo para que o Governo brasileiro ou a Fundação diminuam as suas contribuições .
Cláusula XV
Tendo em vista o fato de que frequentemente a aquisição de material e de equipamento , bem como outras despesas relativas à execução do programa, inclusive as que forem efetuadas com o pessoal brasileiro enviado aos Estados Unidos da América , serão feitas necessáriamente naquêle país , o Superintendente da C.B.A.R. e o Representante especial da Fundação poderão acordar que se excluam dos pagamentos a serem feitos pela Fundação , à conta de C.B.A.R. , as quantias que forem consideradas necessárias para o pagamento das referidas compras e despesas nos Estados Unidos da América. Essas quantias serão consideradas como se tivessem sido depositadas consoante os termos dêste Acôrdo . Quaisquer fundos ao dispor da Fundação com esta finalidade e não dispendidos ou comprometidos com a mesma serão depositados na referida conta bancária a qualquer tempo , mediante entendimento do Superintendente da C.B.A.R. com o Representante Especial da Fundação .
Cláusula XVI
Se, ao fim de cada período de 12 (doze ) meses, calculado da data de vigência dêste Acôrdo , e , ainda , 6 (seis) meses antes de expirar o seu prazo , a Fundação chegar à conclusão de que há saldo nos fundos que deixou de lado como Fundos Administrativos da Fundação , deverá comunicar ao Superintendente da C.B.A.R. a quanto monta êsse saldo que poderá ser utilizado em projetos . Essas somas adicionais serão transferidas para a conta bancária da C.B.A.R. , ou então , dispendidas de outro modo, obedecido o que estabelece o presente Acôrdo .

61 STAT.]

Jan. 21, 1946 BRAZIL- RURAL EDUCATION-
Feb. 15, 1946

Cláusula XVII

Todos os recursos pecuniários que a Fundação trouxer para o Brasil com o objetivo de aplicá-los nos programas de cooperação educacional serão isentos de toda e qualquer taxa de comissões , das exigências para inversões ou depósitos financeiros e de outros contrôles monetários ; e serão convertidos em cruzeiros ao câmbio mais favorável que o Governo brasileiro ou qualquer das suas repartições ou banco brasileiro conceda a qualquer de seus departamentos ou a qualquer outra mação, organização ou indivíduo . Da mesma forma, sempre que for aconselhável converter cruzeiros em dólares para quaisquer despesas nos Estados Unidos da América, essa conversão se fará ao câmbio oficial.
Cláusula XVIII

O Governo brasileiro aceita e reconhece a Fundação como uma
corporação do Governo dos Estados Unidos da América, tendo personalidade jurídica ; por conseguinte, a Fundação estará isenta , entre outras coisas, de quaisquer taxas , contribuições , impostos, cobranças e tarifas alfandegárias, sejam federais , estaduais, territoriais ou municipais , e de todas as exigências para licenças. Os servidores da Fundação que forem cidadãos dos Estados Unidos da América serão isentos no Brasil do imposto de renda e das taxas de previdência social no tocante àqueles rendimentos que já sejam onerados por êsse imposto ou por essas taxas nos Estados Unidos da América. Esses servidores serão também isentos de pagamento de taxas
aduaneiras sôbre objetos de seu uso pessoal ou sôbre bens , equipamento e suprimentos importados ou exportados para seu uso pessoal ou para uso pessoal de membros de suas famílias .

Cláusula XIX
Todo direito, privilégio , facilidade ou obrigação conferidos por êste Acôrdo ao Superintendente da C.B.A.R. ou ao Representante Especial da Fundação poderão ser transferidos a representantes de ambos, desde que isso mereça aprovação da outra parte. Todavia, não obstante a existência de tais representantes , o Superintendente da C.B.A.R. e o Representante Especial da Fundação poderão discutir e deliberar diretamente um com o outro sôbre qualquer assunto.

Cláusula XX
O Governo brasileiro tomará as medidas necessárias para obter a legislação , os decretos , as ordens ou resoluções indispensáveis ao fiel cumprimento dêste Acôrdo.

Cláusula XXI
Este Acôrdo poderá ser alterado se as partes o julgarem necessário, mas tôdas as alterações deverão apresentar a forma escrita e ser assinadas por um representante do Governo brasileiro e um da Fundação, devidamente autorizados para isso.

2317

2318

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Cláusula XXII
O período de vigência do presente Acôrdo deverá ser de 1º de janeiro de 1946 a 30 de junho de 1948 , e poderá ser prorrogado mediante acordo escrito .
Para os devidos efeitos , êste Acôrdo será sujeito a uma troca de Notas entre o Ministério das Relações Exteriores do Brasil e a Embaixada dos Estados Unidos da América acreditada junto ao Governo brasileiro .
Em fé do que os Abaixo Assinados , devidamente autorizados, firmam o presente Acôrdo , em dois exemplares , nas linguas portugêsa e inglêsa, na cidade do Rio de Janeiro , aos vinte dias de outubro de 1945 .
PELO MINISTÉRIO DA AGRICULTURA APOLONIO JORGE DE FARIA SALLES , Ministro de Estado da Agricultura
e
PELA INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC. KENNETH HOLLAND, Presidente.

61 STAT. ] HONDURAS- HEALTH AND SANITATION- May 5 , 8, 1942 Apr. 18, 19, 1944

2319

Agreement between the United States of America and Honduras respecting
health and sanitation . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Tegucigalpa April 18 and 19, 1944; effective May 1 , 1944. And exchange of notes of May 5 and 8, 1942.

MaAypri5l, 188,, 1199,4219, 4a4nd [T. I. A. S. 1557]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Honduran Minister for Foreign Affairs

Note No. 184

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Tegucigalpa, D.C., April 18, 1944.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the notes exchanged between the Min-

ister of Foreign Affairs to the Republic of Honduras and the Envoy

Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary from the United States

of America to the Republic of Honduras, dated May 8, 1942 and May 5, 1942, respectively, and to the Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and the Institute of Inter- American Affairs of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, dated July 8, 1942 ,

Post, pp. 2332, 2331. Post, p. 2334.

all relative to a cooperative program of public health and sanitation

in the Republic of Honduras as approved for by Resolution XXX at

the Third Meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American

Republics in Rio de Janeiro, in January 1942. [ 1 ] In accordance with the notes and agreement referred to the United States of America

has contributed the sum of $500,000.00 to the cooperative health and

sanitation program, which is now being carried out in the Republic

of Honduras. If desired by the Government of the Republic of Honduras , the
Government of the United States of America , through the Institute

Contribution of additional sums by U. S. and Honduras.

of Inter-American Affairs, Office of the Coordinator of Inter- Ameri-

can Affairs, which is an agency of the Government of the United

States of America, is prepared to contribute an additional sum of

$300,000.00 for the purpose of cooperating with the Government of

the Republic of Honduras in extending the cooperative program

of public health and sanitation , and providing for the termination of

the program within a three-year period , beginning May 1 , 1944, pro-

vided the Republic of Honduras makes a like sum of $300,000.00

available for the said cooperative program of public health and sanitation. It is understood that the funds contributed by both governments will be expended through a special agency created within the Direccion General de Sanidad Publica of the Republic of Honduras,

Expenditure through special
agency.

which special agency is known as the "Servicio Cooperative Interamericano de Salud Publica". The kind of work and specific projects to be undertaken and the expenditure of the funds are to be mutually

1 ¹[ Department of State Bulletin, Feb. 7, 1942, p. 137. ]

2320

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Continuation ofpro. gram; termination.

agreed to by the appropriate official of the Government of the Republic of Honduras and the appropriate official of the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs.
Detailed arrangements for the continuation of the cooperative program of public health and sanitation and the termination of the

program will be effected by an agreement between the appropriate

Post, p. 2334.

official of the Government of the Republic of Honduras and the appropriate official of the Institute of Inter- American Affairs.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurance of my most distinguished consideration.
JOHN B. FAUST

Charge d'Affaires ad interim

His Excellency Doctor SILVERIO LAINEZ,

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Tegucigalpa, D.C.

The Honduran Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

Of. N° 1619

SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES DE LA
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
Tegucigalpa, D.C., 19 de abril de 1944.

HONORABLE SEÑOR :
Tengo el honor de acusar recibo a Vuestra Señoría de su atenta nota Nº 184 de fecha 18 del corriente, y en contestación le trascribo el oficio del Señor Ministro de Gobernación, Justicia, Sanidad y Beneficencia que dice :
"MINISTERIO DE GOBERNACION, JUSTICIA, SANIDAD Y BENEFICENCIA-- Tegucigalpa, D.C., Abril 19, 1944-Of. N° 3.281- SR. MINISTRO :-- Tengo el honor de acusar a Ud. recibo de su nota Nº 1611 , fechada el 18 del corriente mes, por medio de la cual se sirve trascribir a este Despacho la comunicación dirigida a esa Secretaría de Estado por la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América , que literalmente dice : "EMBAJADA DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA.-Nota N° 184.-Tegucigalpa, D.C., 18 de Abril de 1944.-EXCELENCIA : Tengo el honor de referirme a las notas cambiadas entre el Ministro de Rela-
ciones Exteriores de la República de Honduras y el Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América ante la República de Honduras, fechadas el 8 de Mayo de 1942 y el 5 de Mayo de 1942 , respectivamente, y el Convenio entre la República de Honduras y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Interamericanos, fecha 8 de julio de 1942 , todo relativo al programa cooperativo y sanidad

May 5 , 8, 1942 61 STAT. ] HONDURAS-HEALTH AND SANITATION- Apr. 18, 19, 1944
pública en la República de Honduras en conformidad con la Resolución XXX de la Tercera Reunión de Ministros de Relaciones Ex-
teriores de las Repúblicas Americanas celebrada en Río de Janeiro en enero de 1942.-De acuerdo con las notas y el convenio aludidos los Estados Unidos han contribuido con la suma de dólares $ 500,000.00 al programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad, que se está ejecutando actualmente en la República de Honduras.-Si lo desea la República de Honduras, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América , por medio del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Interamericanos, que es una agencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América , está preparado para apor-
tar una suma adicional de dólares $300,000.00 con el propósito de cooperar con el Gobierno de la República de Honduras en ampliar el programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad públicas y proveer la terminación del programa dentro de un período de tres años a partir del 1° de Mayo de 1944 , siempre que la República de Honduras facilite una suma igual de Dólares $300,000.00 para dicho programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad públicas.-Es entendido que los fondos contribuidos por ambos Gobiernos serán gastados por una agencia especial creada dentro de la Dirección General de Sanidad Pública de la República de Honduras, cuya agencia especial se conoce con el nombre de " Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública". La clase de trabajo y los proyectos específicos que se lleven a cabo, lo mismo que el gasto de los fondos, deben ser convenidos mutuamente por el funcionario correspondiente del Gobierno de Honduras y el funcionario correspondiente del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos.-Los arreglos detallados para la continuación del programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad públicas y la terminación del programa se establecerán en un convenio entre el funcionario
correspondiente del Gobierno de Honduras y el funcionario correspondiente del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos.-Sírvase aceptar, Excelencia, las renovadas seguridades de mi más distinguida consideración, ( f) JOHN B. FAUST, Encargado de Negocios a.i.-A Su Excelencia el Sr. Dr. don SILVERIO LAÍNEZ, Secretario de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa, D.C." - En contestación, tengo el honor de manifestar a Ud. con instrucciones del Señor Presidente de la República, que el Gobierno de Honduras, por medio de esta Secretaría de Estado , acepta la propuesta contenida en la nota preinserta , lo cual ruego a Ud. poner en conocimiento de la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América, expresándole, al mismo tiempo, el reconocimiento del Gobierno de Honduras por la cooperación que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América , por medio del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Interamericanos, le ha prestado y que le seguirá prestando al de este país en el desarrollo del programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad públicas, de conformidad con la Resolución XXX de la III Reunión

2321

2322

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
de Ministros de Relaciones Exteriores de las Repúblicas Americanas-- Con toda consideración , soy del Sr. Ministro muy atento y seguro servidor (f) ABRAHAM WILLIAMS-Al Sr. Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores, Su Despacho."
Aprovecho esta oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Señoría el testimonio de mi alto aprecio y distinguida consideración,
SILVERIO LAÍNEZ Honorable Señor JOHN B. FAUST,
Encargado de Negocios a.i. de los Estados Unidos de América. Embajada Americana

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

Of. No. 1619

Tegucigalpa, D.C. , April 19, 1944.

SIR :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your courteous note No. 184 dated the 18th of the current month, and in reply I transcribe the communications of the Minister of Interior, Justice , Health and Welfare, which reads :

"MINISTRY OF INTERIOR, JUSTICE, HEALTH AND WELFARE- Tegucigalpa, D.C., April 19, 1944-Of. No. 3,281- MR. MINISTER : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note No. 1611 dated the 18th of the current month, in which you are good enough to transcribe for this Office the communication addressed to your Department by the Embassy of the United States of America, which reads, word for word :- ' EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.-Note No.
184.-Tegucigalpa, D.C., April 18, 1944.-EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to refer to the notes exchanged between the Minister of Foreign Relations of the Republic of Honduras and the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Honduras, dated May 8, 1942 and May 5 , 1942 , respectively, and to the Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, dated July 8 , 1942, all of which relate to the cooperative public health program in the Republic of Honduras in accordance with Resolution XXX of the Third Meeting of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American Republics held in Rio de Janeiro in January 1942.-In accordance with the aforementioned notes and the Agreement, the United States has contributed the sum of $500,000.00 to the cooperative health and sanitation program which is at present being carried out in the Republic of Honduras.-If the Republic of Honduras so desires, the Government of the United States

61 STAT.] HONDURAS-HEALTH AND SANITATION- May 5, 8, 1942 Apr. 18, 19, 1944

2323

of America is prepared to contribute, through the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter- American

Affairs, which is an agency of the Government of the United States

of America, an additional sum of $300,000.00 for the purpose of co-

operating with the Government of the Republic of Honduras in extending the cooperative public health and sanitation program and in providing for the termination of the program within a period of three years beginning with May 1, 1944, provided that the Republic of Honduras furnishes a like sum of $300,000.00 for the said cooperative public health and sanitation program. It is understood that the funds contributed by both Governments will be expended by a special agency created within the General Public Health Administration of the

Republic of Honduras, which special agency is known by the name of "Cooperative Inter-American Public Health Service". The type of work and the specific projects carried out and the expenditure of them must be agreed upon mutually by the appropriate official of the Gov-

ernment of Honduras and the appropriate official of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs.-The detailed arrangements for the continuation of the cooperative public health and sanitation program and for the termination of the program will be set forth in an agreement between the appropriate official of the Government of Honduras and the appropriate official of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .- Please

accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

(sgd. ) JOHN B. FAUST, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.-His Excellency

Dr. SILVERIO LAÍNEZ, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Tegucigalpa,

D.C.

In reply, I have the honor to inform you, on instructions

from the President of the Republic, that the Government of Honduras

Acceptance of proposal by Government of Honduras.

accepts, through this Department, the proposal contained in the note

quoted above, and I beg you to make this known to the Embassy of the United States of America, at the same time expressing to it the gratitude of the Government of Honduras for the cooperation which the

Government of the United States of America, through the Institute of Inter-American Affairs of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-

American Affairs, has extended to the Government of Honduras and

will continue to extend in carrying out the cooperative public health and sanitation program in accordance with Resolution XXX of the Third Meeting of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American

Republics.--I am, Mr. Minister, respectfully yours, ( sgd. ) ABRAHAM WILLIAMS.-To the Minister of Foreign Affairs, His Office."
I avail myself of this opportunity to repeat, Sir, the assurance of my high esteem and distinguished consideration.

SILVERIO LAÍNEZ

The Honorable JOHN B. FAUST, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America. American Embassy

2324

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

The Executive Vice-President, Institute of Inter- American Affairs, to the Honduran Minister of Government, Justice, Health and Welfare

TEGUCIGALPA, HONDURAS

His Excellency General ABRAHAM WILLIAMS Ministro de Gobernación, Justicia, Sanidad y Beneficencia

April 19, 1944.

Tegucigalpa, Honduras

YOUR EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the notes exchanged by His Excellency,

the Honduran Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the Minister of the Post, pp. 2331, 2332. United States of America in Tegucigalpa on May 5 and 8, 1942 ,

respectively ; to an agreement entered into between The Institute of

Inter-American Affairs , of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-

Post, p. 2334.

American Affairs, an agency of the Government of the United States of America, and the Republic of Honduras on July 8, 1942 ; to a further exchange of notes between His Excellency, the Honduran

Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ambassador of the United States Ante, pp. 2319, 2320. of America in Tegucigalpa on April 18, 1944 and April 19, 1944,

respectively, all relating to the establishment in Honduras of a coop-

erative health and sanitation program as provided for in Resolution

XXX approved at the Third Meeting of the Ministers of Foreign

Affairs of the American Republics held at Río de Janeiro in January

Allocation of sums
by U. S. and Honduras.

1942 ; and to propose that Your Excellency , acting on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Honduras, agree to the following :
1.- The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs and an agency of the Govern-

ment of the United States of America, is prepared to allocate a sum of not to exceed $300,000.00 for the purpose of extending the cooper-

ative health and sanitation program being carried out by the Servicio

Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública (hereinafter referred

to as the " SCISP" ) , for a period of approximately three years begin-

ning May 1 , 1944, provided the Government of Honduras appropriates

a like sum equivalent in Lempiras to $300,000.00, U.S. Currency, for the same purpose. These funds are to be allocated and employed

for maintaining projects in operation , or those to be placed in opera-

tion under the terms of the said agreement, and, insofar as funds may

be available, for any new projects , including those which may relate

to the procurement of strategic materials, which may be mutually agreed upon between the Minister of Government, Justice , Health

and Welfare of the Republic, or his representative, and the Chief of Field Party of the Institute, or his representative .

2.- For the purpose of effectuating the objectives of this agreement ,

the Institute agrees to deposit in the Banco de Honduras to the

61 STAT.] HONDURAS-HEALTH AND SANITATION May 5, 8, 1942 Apr. 18, 19, 1944

2325

account of the SCISP, the sum of Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($300,000.00) on the following basis :

During May, 1944 During May, 1945 During May, 1946

U. S. $150,000.00 U. S. 100,000.00 U. S. 50,000.00

and the Republic of Honduras agrees to deposit in the Banco de Honduras to the account of the SCISP the amount of Three Hundred

Thousand Dollars ( $300,000.00 ) on the following basis :

During May, 1944, the equivalent in Lempiras of $75,000.00 During May, 1945, the equivalent in Lempiras of $ 100,000.00 During May, 1946, the equivalent in Lempiras of $125,000.00
The funds deposited by the Republic in any particular year or the funds deposited by the Institute in any particular year to the credit

Restriction on withdrawal of funds.

of the SCISP in the Banco de Honduras as herein provided are not

to be withdrawn by the Director of the SCISP until the funds for

that year have been deposited by both parties as agreed to herein. 3.- In accordance with its obligations under the said agreement

Unexpended funds.

the Institute hereby acknowledges that its previous obligation for

the health and sanitation program in Honduras was $500,000.00. In

the event that any part of the said sum of $ 500,000.00 has not been

expended on May 31, 1944, such funds will then be deposited in the Banco de Honduras to the account of the SCISP and will be used

for projects previously agreed upon and to be agreed upon. Any of these funds remaining unexpended after the completion of the original program will be available for use in the extended program of the SCISP.

4.- Any part of the funds deposited in the Banco de Honduras to

the account of the SCISP according to the schedule outlined above

which may be unexpended at the termination of the period in which they were deposited will continue to be available for the purpose of the general health program of the SCISP and will not revert to either the Institute of Inter-American Affairs or to the Republic of Honduras. The Minister of Government, Justice, Health and Wel-

fare, or his representative, and the Chief of Field Party of the Institute, or his representative, shall determine by mutual agreement the disposition of all unobligated funds remaining to the credit of the SCISP upon the expiration of this agreement.
5. - The said Agreement will remain in full force and effect for the purpose of extending the said cooperative health and sanitation

Duration of agreement.

program until April 30, 1947, and the terms and provisions therein

contained will apply during the continuation of the said program .

The procedures and methods established and in use for the operation

of the SCISP, pursuant to the said Agreement, will continue to apply

to the operation of the SCISP until the termination of the extended

agreement on April 30, 1947.

If this proposal is agreeable to Your Excellency this letter and Your Excellency's acceptance thereof will constitute a binding and

Post, p. 2330.

95347°--49 - PT. III- -4

2326

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

effective agreement between the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the Republic of Honduras in accordance with the terms and provisions contained therein.
Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration . FOR THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS GEORGE C. DUNHAM, Executive Vice-President.

The Honduran Minister of Government, Justice, Health and Welfare to the Executive Vice-President, Institute of Inter-American Affairs MINISTERIO DE GOBERNACION, JUSTICIA, SANIDAD Y BENEFICENCIA

TEGUCIGALPA, D.C. , HONDURAS , C.A.-

Oficio N° 3297

Abril 19, 1944

Sr. General GEORGE C. DUNHAM, Vice-Presidente Ejecutivo, Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos,

Tegucigalpa, D.C.

SR. VICE-PRESIDENTE EJECUTIVO : Tengo el honor de contestar su atenta comunicación del 19 del
corriente mes en que, refiriéndose a las notas cambiadas por Su Excelencia el Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores de Honduras y Su Excelencia el Ministro de los Estados Unidos de América en Tegucigalpa, D.C., el 5 y 8 de Mayo de 1942, respectivamente ; a un convenio celebrado entre el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, de la Oficina del
Coordinador de Asuntos Interamericanos, que es una Agencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, y la República de Honduras, el 8 de Julio de 1942 ; a un intercambio adicional de notas entre Su Excelencia el Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores de Honduras

y Su Excelencia el Embajador de los Estados Unidos de América en Tegucigalpa, D.C. , el 18 y 19 de Abril corriente, respectivamente, todos relacionados con el establecimiento en Honduras de un programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad como se convino en la Resolución XXX aprobada en la Tercera Reunión de los Ministros de Relaciones Exteriores de las Repúblicas Americanas, celebrada en Río de Janeiro, en Enero de 1942 ; para proponerme que, actuando en nombre del Gobierno de la República de Honduras, convenga en lo siguiente :

1.- El Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos, de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Inter-Americanos, que es una agencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, está preparada para asignar una suma que no exceda de $300,000.00, con el objeto de extender el programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad que se está llevando a cabo por el Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública ( que en adelante será llamado "SCISP ") , por un período de aproximadamente tres años empezando el 1º de Mayo de 1944. con tal de que el Gobierno de Honduras destine una suma igual equivalente en Lempiras a $300,000.00, moneda de los Estados Unidos, para el mismo objeto.

May 5, 8, 1942 61 STAT.] HONDURAS-HEALTH AND SANITATION- Apr. 18, 19, 1944
Estos fondos serán destinados y empleados para el mantenimiento de los proyectos en operación, o aquellos que se pondrán en operación bajo las condiciones de dicho convenio y, según que los fondos puedan ser disponibles, para cualesquiera nuevos proyectos , incluyendo aquellos que puedan relacionarse con la obtención de materiales estratégicos , que puedan ser mutuamente convenidos entre el Ministerio de Gobernación, Justicia, Sanidad y Beneficencia de la República, o su representante, y el Jefe de Operaciones de Campo del Instituto, o su representante.
2.- Con el objeto de llevar a cabo los propósitos de este convenio, el Instituto conviene en depositar en el Banco de Honduras a la cuenta del "SCISP " , la suma de Trescientos Mil Dólares ( $300,000.00 ) , bajo las siguientes bases :
Durante Mayo, 1944 - $150,000.00 Moneda de los E. U. de A. 66 66 66 66 66 66 66
Durante Mayo, 1945- $100,000.00 66 66 66 66 66 66 66
Durante Mayo, 1946- $50,000.00
y la República de Honduras conviene en depositar en el Banco de Honduras a la cuenta del "SCISP" la suma de Trescientos Mil Dólares ($300,000.00) bajo las bases siguientes :
Durante Mayo, 1944, el equivalente en Lps. de (Dólares ) $ 75,000.00 Durante Mayo, 1945, el equivalente en Lps. de ( Dólares ) $100,000.00 Durante Mayo, 1946, el equivalente en Lps. de (Dólares ) $125,000.00
Los fondos depositados por la República en cualquier año en particular o los fondos depositados por el Instituto en cualquier año en particular para el crédito del " SCISP" en el Banco de Honduras como
queda establecido no podrán ser retirados por el Director del "SCISP", sino hasta que los fondos para ese año hayan sido depositados por ambas partes como aquí queda convenido.
3.- Conforme con sus obligaciones bajo dicho convenio, el Instituto, por el presente, reconoce que su anterior obligación para el programa de salud y sanidad en Honduras era de $500,000.00 . En el caso de que alguna parte de dicha suma de $500,000.00 no haya sido gastada el 31 de Mayo de 1944 , tales fondos serán entonces depositados en el Banco de Honduras a la cuenta del "SCISP" y serán usados para proyectos previamente convenidos y que se convengan. Cualesquiera de estos fondos que permanezcan sin gastarse después de completarse el programa original serán disponibles para su uso en el programa de extensión del "SCISP".
4.- Cualquier parte de los fondos depositados en el Banco de Honduras a la cuenta del " SCISP", conforme a la lista arriba detallada , que pueda quedar sin gastarse a la terminación del período en que fueron depositados continuarán siendo disponsibles para el objeto del programa general de salud del "SCISP" y no revertirá sea a favor del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos o a favor de la República de Honduras. El Ministerio de Gobernación , Justicia, Sanidad y Beneficencia, o su representante, y el Jefe de Operaciones de Campo del Instituto, o su representante, determinarán por mutuo convenio la disposición que se hará de todos los fondos no obligados que queden para el crédito del "SCISP" a la expiración de este convenio.

2327

2328

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
5.- El expresado Convenio permanecerá en pleno vigor y efecto para el objeto de la extensión de dicho programa de salud y sanidad hasta el 30 de Abril de 1947, y las condiciones y estipulaciones en él contenidas regirán durante la continuación del citado programa. Los procedimientos y métodos establecidos y en uso para la operación del "SCISP" conforme al expresado convenio, continuarán aplicándose en la operación del " SCISP" hasta la terminación del convenio prorrogado hasta el 30 de Abril de 1947.
Se sirve Ud. manifestar, además, que si la proposición a que me vengo refiriendo es satisfactoria para mi Gobierno, la carta de Ud. y la aceptación de parte del Gobierno de Honduras constituirán un convenio obligatorio y efectivo entre el Instituto de Asuntos InterAmericanos y la República de Honduras, de acuerdo con los términos y estipulaciones contenidas en la apreciable carta de Ud.
En respuesta, tengo el honor de manifestar a Ud., con la autorización del Sr. Presidente de la República , que el Gobierno de Honduras, por mi medio, gustosamente acepta la propuesta para la extensión del programa de salud y sanidad contenida en su expresada carta, por un período de tres años más, a partir del próximo 1º de Mayo de 1944 hasta el 30 de Abril de 1947, bajo las estipulaciones del Convenio del 8 de Julio de 1942 , celebrado entre el Gobierno de la República de Honduras y el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos , de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Inter-Americanos, que es una Agencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, y aprobado en Acuerdo del Poder Ejecutivo N° 60 emitido por esta Secretaría de Estado.
El Gobierno de la República de Honduras, por mi medio , desea expresar su vivo reconocimiento al Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos por la cooperación que le ha prestado y sigue prestándole al programa de salud y sanidad de Honduras, para beneficio de ambos países.
Con muestras de mi distinguida consideración y aprecio, me es grato suscribirme de Ud. como su muy atento y seguro servidor,
ABRAHAM WILLIAMS, Secretario de Estado en los Despachos de Gobernación, Justicia, Sanidad y Beneficencia.
Translation

MINISTRY OF GOVERNMENT, JUSTICE, HEALTH AND WELFARE

File No. 3297

TEGUCIGALPA, D.C. , HONDURAS , C. A. April 19, 1944

General GEORGE C. DUNHAM Executive Vice President Institute of Inter- American Affairs Tegucigalpa, D.C.

MR . EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT: I have the honor to reply to your courteous letter of the 19th of
the current month, referring to the notes exchanged by His Excellency

61 STAT. ] HONDURAS -HEALTH AND SANITATION- May 5, 8, Apr. 18, 19, 19442
the Minister of Foreign Relations of Honduras and His Excellency the Minister of the United States of America in Tegucigalpa, D. C. , on the 5th and 8th of May 1942 , respectively ; to an agreement concluded between the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, which is an agency of the Government of the United States of America, and the Republic of Honduras, on July 8 , 1942 ; to an additional exchange of notes between His Excellency the Minister of Foreign Relations of Honduras and His Excellency the Ambassador of the United States of America in Tegucigalpa , D. C. , on the 18th and 19th , respectively, of this present month of April, all relating to the establishment in Honduras of a cooperative health and sanitation program as was agreed upon in Resolution XXX approved during the Third Meeting of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American Republics , held in Rio de Janeiro in January 1942 ; and proposing that , acting in the name of the Government of the Republic of Honduras , I agree to the following :
1. The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, which is an agency of the Government of the United States of America, is prepared to allocate a sum not exceeding $ 300,000.00 for the purpose of extending the cooperative health and sanitation program now being carried out by the Inter-American Cooperative Public Health Service (henceforth designated as the "SCISP. " ) , for a period of approximately three years beginning May 1 , 1944 , provided that the Government of Honduras appropriates a like sum in lempiras , equivalent to $ 300,000.00 U. S. currency, for the same purpose . These funds will be allocated and
employed for the maintenance of the projects in operation or those which will be placed in operation under the terms of the said agreement, and, as funds may be available, for any new projects, including those which may relate to the procurement of strategic materials , which may be mutually agreed between the Ministry of Government, Justice, Health and Welfare of the Republic , or its representative, and the Chief of Field Party of the Institute , or his representative .
2. For the purpose of accomplishing the objectives of this agreement, the Institute agrees to deposit in the Bank of Honduras, to the account of the "SCISP .", the sum of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) on the following bases:
During May 1944 $ 150,000.00 U. S. currency During May 1945 100,000.00 U. S. currency During May 1946 50,000.00 U. S. currency
and the Republic of Honduras agrees to deposit in the Bank of Honduras, to the account of the "SCISP" , the sum of three hundred thousand dollars ($ 300,000.00) on the following bases :
During May 1944, the equivalent in lempiras of $ 75,000.00 ( dollars) During May 1945 , the equivalent in lempiras of $ 100,000.00 ( dollars) During May 1946, the equivalent in lempiras of $ 125,000.00 ( dollars)
The funds deposited by the Republic in any particular year or the funds deposited by the Institute in any particular year to the credit

2329

2330

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

of "SCISP", in the Bank of Honduras, as provided , cannot be withdrawn by the Director of the "SCISP" until the funds for that year

have been deposited by both parties , as agreed to herein . 3. - In accordance with its obligations under the said agreement, the
Institute hereby acknowledges that its previous obligation for the health and sanitation program in Honduras was $ 500,000.00 . In the event that any part of the said sum of $ 500,000.00 has not been expended on May 31 , 1944 , such funds will then be deposited in the Bank of Honduras to the account of the "SCISP" and will be used for

projects previously agreed upon , or which may be agreed upon . Any of these funds that remain unexpended after the completion of the original program will be available for use in the extension of the "SCISP" in the extension program.

4.- Any part of the funds deposited in the Bank of Honduras to the account of the "SCISP" in accordance with the schedule outlined

above, which may be unexpended at the termination of the period in which they were deposited , will continue to be available for the purpose of the general health program of the "SCISP " , and will not revert either to the Institute of Inter-American Affairs or the Re-

public of Honduras. The Ministry of Government , Justice , Health and Welfare, or its representative, and the Chief of Field Party of the Institute, or his representative, shall determine by mutual agreement the disposition to be made of all unobligated funds remaining to the credit of the "SCISP" upon the expiration of this agreement .
5. - The said agreement will remain in full force and effect for the purpose of extending the said program of health and sanitation until

April 30, 1947, and the conditions and stipulations contained therein will be in effect during the continuation of the said program. The

procedures and methods established and in use for the operation of the "SCISP " , pursuant to the said agreement, will continue to apply in the operation of the "SCISP" until the termination of the agreement extended to April 30 , 1947 .

You are good enough to state, moreover, that if the proposal to which I refer is satisfactory to my Government , your letter and the acceptance on the part of the Government of Honduras will constitute

a binding and effective agreement between the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs and the Republic of Honduras in accordance with

Acceptance of proposal by Government of Honduras.

the terms and stipulations contained in your esteemed letter. In reply, I have the honor to inform you, with the authorization
the President of the Republic, that the Government of Honduras ,

acting through me, accepts with pleasure the proposal for the exten-

sion of the health and sanitation program , as set forth in your letter

mentioned above, for a period of three years more, from May 1 ,

1944 to April 30, 1947 , under the stipulations of the agreement of July 8 , 1942 concluded between the Government of the Republic of Honduras and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs , which is an agency of

the Government of the United States of America, and which was

approved in Executive Decree No. 60 issued by this Department of State .

61 STAT.] HONDURAS-HEALTH AND SANITATION May 5, 8, 1942 Apr. 18, 19, 1944

The Government of the Republic of Honduras wishes to express,

through me, its deep gratitude to the Institute of Inter-American Affairs for the assistance that it has rendered and is continuing to

render to the program of health and sanitation in Honduras, to the benefit of both countries .

With the expression of my distinguished consideration and esteem,

I have the pleasure of signing myself as your humble and obedient

servant ,

ABRAHAM WILLIAMS

Secretary of State for the Departments

of Government, Justice, Health and Welfare

2331

The American Minister to the Honduran Minister for Foreign Affairs

LEGATION OF THE

No. 644

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Tegucigalpa, D.C. , Honduras, May 5, 1942.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to inform you that, in accordance with Resolution XXX of the Third Meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American Republics at Rio de Janeiro, relating to health and sanitary conditions, the Government of the United States is prepared to contribute a sum in the amount of $500,000 to be expended in ways

which will assist the Government of Honduras in attaining its objectives in matters of health and sanitation.

U. S. contribution.

My Government notes that projects such as the improvement of water supply, the development of facilities for adequate sewage disposal, and the control of endemic or epidemic diseases have been among the chief objectives of the Honduran Government in health

and sanitation matters. My Government considers that the further development of projects of this character will contribute to the reali-
zation of the general objectives set forth in the above-mentioned resolution to which our respective Governments are committed.
Development ofspeIn this connection, the Government of the United States acting cific program by exthrough the agency of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-Ameri- perts from U. S. can Affairs will send, if it is agreeable to you, a small group of experts to Honduras in order to develop a specific program in agreement with your Government, acting through officials designated by it. This group will be under the immediate direction of the Chief Medical Officer of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, and will work in the closest cooperation with the appropriate Honduran officials. The salaries and expenses of the group of
experts will not be debited against project funds. Approval for the actual execution of the specific projects agreed upon will be given by the respective Governments or their duly appointed agents. Expenditures for such projects shall be made upon certification of the Chief Medical Officer and the appropriate Honduran official designated for the areas where projects will be executed.

2332

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Projects to become property ofHonduras.

These projects upon completion will of course become the sole property of Honduras. The United States Government will be prepared to facilitate such training of personnel as the two Governments deem advisable.

My Government anticipates that the Honduran Government will
be willing to provide, in accordance with its ability, such raw materials, services and funds as may be deemed necessary for the proper execution of the program.

I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
JOHN D. ERWIN His Excellency
Dr. SALVADOR AGUIRRE,

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Tegucigalpa, D.C.

The Honduran Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Minister
SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES DE LA
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS

Of. N° 2657

PALACIO NACIONAL Tegucigalpa, D.C., 8 de mayo de 1942

SEÑOR MINISTRO :

Tengo el honor de acusar recibo a Vuestra Excelencia de su atenta nota Nº 644, fechada el 5 del mes en curso en la que se sirve informarme que, de acuerdo con la Resolución XXX de la Tercera Reunión de Ministros de Relaciones Exteriores de las Repúblicas Americanas en Río de Janeiro, Brasil, en relación con las condiciones de salud y sanidad, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos está preparado para contribuir con la suma de $500.000.00 para ser gastada en una forma en que pueda ayudar al Gobierno de Honduras para alcanzar sus objetivos en asuntos de salud y sanidad ; que su Gobierno nota que proyectos tales como el mejoramiento del agua potable, el desarrollo de facilidades para la disposición adecuada de cloacas y el control de enfermedades endémicas y epidémicas han sido los principales objetivos del Gobierno de Honduras en asuntos de salud y sanidad y que considera que el desenvolvimiento posterior de proyectos de este carácter contribuirá a la realización de los objetivos generales indicados en la Resolución arriba mencionada, a la cual nuestros respectivos Gobiernos se han comprometido.
Agrega Vuestra Excelencia que su Gobierno por medio de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Interamericanos, enviará , si a este Despacho le parece bien, un pequeño grupo de expertos a Honduras con el objeto de desarrollar un programa específico de acuerdo con mi Gobierno, el que debe de actuar por medio de funcionarios designados por él ; grupo que estará bajo la inmediata dirección del Oficial Médico en Jefe de la Oficina del Coordinador de los Asuntos Inter-

61 STAT. ] HONDURAS- HEALTH AND SANITATION May 5 , 8, 1942 Apr. 18, 19, 1944
americanos y trabajará en estrecha cooperación con las apropiadas autoridades hondureñas.
En contestación me es grato informar a Vuestra Excelencia que mi Gobierno con el mayor gusto acepta el ofrecimiento del Gobierno americano en los términos que se sirve Vuestra Excelencia explanar en su nota al principio citada y espera la llegada al país del grupo de expertos ofrecido que se encargará de desarrollar un programa específico en relación con las condiciones de salud y sanidad del país, para proceder a designar los funcionarios hondureños que cooperarán en dicha obra.
Al rendir al Gobierno Americano, por el digno medio de Vuestra Excelencia, las más expresivas gracias por su expontáneo ofrecimiento en beneficio de la sanidad de Honduras, aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterarle el testimonio de mi más alto aprecio y distinguida consideración ,
SALVADOR AGUIRRE
Excelentísimo Señor JOHN D. ERWIN, Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Legacion Americana.
Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

NATIONAL PALACE

Of. No. 2657

Tegucigalpa, D.C., May 8, 1942

MR. MINISTER :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's courteous note No. 644, dated the 5th instant, by which you are good enough to inform me that, in accordance with Resolution of the Third Meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American Republics at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in connection with health and sanitation conditions, the Government of the United States is prepared to contribute the sum of $500,000.00 to be expended in ways which will assist the Government of Honduras in attaining its objectives in matters of health and sanitation ; that your Government notes that projects such as the improvement of water supply, the development of facilities for adequate sewage disposal and the control of endemic and epidemic diseases have been the chief objectives of the Government of Honduras in health and sanitation matters and that it considers that the further

development of projects of this character will contribute to the realization of the general objectives set forth in the above-mentioned Resolution to which our respective Governments are committed.
Your Excellency adds that your Government, acting through the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, will send , if it

is agreeable to this Office, a small group of experts to Honduras in

2333

2334

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

order to develop a specific program in agreement with my Government, acting through officials designated by it ; this group will be under the immediate direction of the Chief Medical Officer of the

Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, and will work

Acceptance of U. S.
offer by Government of Honduras.

in the closest cooperation with the appropriate Honduran officials. In reply, I am happy to inform Your Excellency that my Govern-
ment accepts with the greatest pleasure the offer of the American

Government on the terms which Your Excellency is good enough to set forth in your above-mentioned note and awaits the arrival in the country of the group of experts offered which will take charge of developing a specific program in connection with the health and

sanitation conditions of the country, in order to proceed to designate

the Honduran officials who will cooperate in the said work. Expressing to the American Government, through Your Excel-
lency's high intermediary, my sincerest thanks for its spontaneous offer in behalf of the sanitation of Honduras, I avail myself of this

opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest

and most distinguished consideration,

SALVADOR AGUIRRE

His Excellency JOHN D. ERWIN,

Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, American Legation.

Contract Signed by the Honduran Director of Public Health and a Representative of the Institute of Inter- American Affairs

PEDRO H. ORDOÑEZ DIAZ, in his capacity of Director General of Public Health of the Republic of Honduras and I. Frank Tullis, in his capacity as representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs
of the United States Government, duly authorized , have agreed to enter into the following

"SCISP".

CONTRACT :
I
The Institute of Inter-American Affairs of the city of Washington, D.C. , United States of America, shall provide gratuitously to the Government of Honduras a service under the denomination of "Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública" ( Interamerican Cooperative Service of Public Health ) that, hereinafter, in the text of this contract shall be called "SCIS P" which will function as an integral part of the Direction General of Public Health and shall have for its essential objective the development of the activities of Public Health and the construction of sanitary works.
II

Acceptance of serv. ice by Government

The Government of Honduras accepts the organization of this serv-

of Honduras.

ice in the form indicated hereinabove in the preceding article and

obliges itself to make all necessary facilities to carry out said

activities.

61 STAT.] HONDURAS -HEALTH AND SANITATION- May 5, 8, Apr. 18, 19, 1199424

2335

III

The "S CIS P" shall name, with the consent of the Government
of Honduras, a Physician, member of the personnel of the Institute, of Interamerican Affairs as Chief of the Organization. - There will

Chief of Organization and Assistants.

be also an Official Sanitary Physician and a Civil or Sanitary Engineer,

Hondurans, appointed by the President of the Republic as Assistants to the Chief of the Service.
IV

The salary and expenses, including traveling expenses of the personnel of the Institute of Interamerican Affairs employed in Honduras shall be paid by the Institute and not from the funds assigned to the "S CISP".
V

Salary and expenses.

All the employees of the "SCIS P" shall be appointed, contracted

Appointments; removals.

for and removed by the Chief of the Service in agreement with the

Direction General of Public Health.

VI

The "S CIS P" shall be maintained , partly, with the funds furnished by the Institute of Interamerican Affairs in an amount not to exceed FIVE HUNDRED THOUSANDDOLLARS ($500.000.00) , to be spent

Maintenance of "SCISP".

totally or partly, during a period of, approximately, two years, start-

ing from July 1st 1942 ; and , partly, with funds, personnel and material

which the Government of Honduras may furnish.

VII

The funds of the "SCIS P" shall be employed exclusively in sani-

Employment of "SCISP" funds, etc.

tary works, approved by the Director General of Public Health and

the Chief of the "S CIS P" ; however, any other special activity shall

be the subject of a new contract between the Director General of Pub-

lic Health and the Institute of Interamerican Affairs. Any sanitary

work already initiated by the Government of Honduras may be accepted to be finished by the contracting parties.

VIII

The "S CIS P" shall include in its plan of activities and works the following : improvement of the water supply and sewerage service ; control of transmisible diseases such as tuberculosis, intestinal parasit-
ism, syphilis, etc.; installation and improvement of Sanitary Units in the Republic and Sanitary Sections ; training of the personnel for Public Health service and extension of the program of control of the malaria and public health measures in general. In addition, other projects may be added to those above stated with the approval of the Direction General of Public Health and the Chief of the "S CISP".

IX Ownership of proj-
All projects executed under this contract shall be the exclusive ects. property of the Government and people of Honduras.

2336

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STtat.

X

Importation of materials.

All materials imported for the work and activities of the service

shall be introduced into the country free of custom duties and of any

other tax or official charge. As far as possible, in the execution of

these works the Institute shall use only materials and implements

produced in the country.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties sign in duplicate the present con-

tract, in English and Spanish, in the city of Tegucigalpa, D.C. , Re-

public of Honduras, this eighth day of July of the year one thousand nine hundred and forty two.

P. H. ORDOÑEZ DIAZ

I. FRANK TULLIs, Jr.

PEDRO H. ORDOÑEZ DIAZ , en su caracter de Director General de Sanidad de la República de Honduras, e I. FRANK TULLIS, en su calidad de Representante del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, debidamente autorizados, han convenido en celebrar el siguiente :
CONTRATO :
I
El Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos de la ciudad de Washington, D.C., Estados Unidos de América, proveerá gratuitamente al Gobierno de Honduras de un servicio que se denominará "Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública", y que en adelante, en el texto de ese Contrato se llamará "SCIS P", que funcionará como parte integrante de la Dirección General de Sanidad y que tendrá por objetivo esencial, el desarrollo de las actividades de Salud Pública y construcción de obras de saneamiento.
II
El Gobierno de Honduras acepta la organización de este servicio en la forma indicada en el Artículo precedente y se obliga a hacer todas las facilidades necesarias para llevar a cabo tales actividades.
III
El "SCIS P", nombrará, con el consentimiento del Gobierno de Honduras, a un médico como Jefe de la Organización , perteneciente al personal del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos. También habrá un Oficial Médico Sanitario y un Ingeniero Civil o Sanitario hondureños, como Asistentes del Jefe del Servicio , nombrados por el señor Presidente de la República.
IV
Los salarios y gastos, incluyendo los de viajes del personal del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, empleados en Honduras, serán pagados por el Instituto y no de los fondos asignados al "SCIS P".

61 STAT. ] HONDURAS- HEALTH AND SANITATION-May 5, 8, 1942 Apr. 18, 19, 1944
V
Todos los empleados del "SCIS P"", serán nombrados , contratados y removidos por el Jefe del Servicio de acuerdo con la Dirección General de Sanidad.
VI
El "SCIS P", será mantenido , en parte con los fondos suplidos por el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, en una cantidad que no excederá de QUINIENTOS MIL DOLLARS ($500,000,00) , para ser gastados totalmente o en parte, durante un período de, aproximadamente, dos años, a partir del primero de Julio de 1,942 ; y en parte con fondos, personal, facilidades y material que el Gobierno de Honduras pueda suministrar.
VII

Los fondos del "SCISP"9, serán empleados exclusivamente en trabajos sanitarios, aprobados por el Director General de Sanidad y el Jefe del "S CIS P" ; no obstante , cualquier otra actividad especial será objeto de un nuevo contrato entre el Director General de Sanidad y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos. La Terminación de cualquier trabajo sanitario, ya iniciada por el Gobierno de Honduras, puede ser aceptada por las partes contratantes.
VIII

El "SCISP", iniciará en su plan de actividades y trabajos, los siguientes : Mejoramiento de los Abastos de Agua y Servicio de Cloacas ; control de Enfermedades trasmisibles , tales como tuberculosis, parasitismo intestinal, sífilis, etc.; instalaciones y mejoramiento de las Unidades Sanitarias en la República y Secciones de Sanidad ; entrenamiento del personal para el Servicio de Salubridad Pública y extensión del Programa de Control de la malaria y medidas sanitarias en general. En adición , otros proyectos pueden agregarse a los arriba estipulados, conforme aprobación de la Dirección General de Sanidad y el Jefe del "SCISP".
IX

Todos los proyectos ejecutados bajo este contrato serán propiedad exclusiva del Gobierno y pueblo de Honduras.

X

Todos los materiales importados para los trabajos y actividades del

servicio, serán introducidas al país. libre de derechos de aduana y

de cualquier otro impuesto o gasto oficial.-Hasta donde sea posible,

el Instituto usará para la ejecución de las obras, solamente materiales e

implementos producidos en el país. En fé de lo cual firman el presente Contrato, por duplicado, en los

idiomas inglés y español, en la ciudad de Tegucigalpa , D.C. República de Honduras el ocho de julio de mil novecientos cuarenta y dos.

P. H. ORDOÑEZ DIAZ

I. FRANK TULLIS , Jr.

2337

2338

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

J21a,nuMarayy3,21, 8,JuMnaerc8h, August 10, September
17, 1946
[T. I. A. S. 1559]

Agreement between the United States of America and Brazil extending the agreement of May 7, 1942, respecting a naval mission . Effected by exchanges of notes signed at Washington January 3 and 18, March 21, May 2, June 8, August 10, and September 17, 1946; effective from May 7, 1946.

The Brazilian Ambassador to the Secretary of State

EMBAIXADA DOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DO BRASIL

N° 1/530.1 (22)

Washington, em 3 de janeiro de 1946.

SENHOR SECRETÁRIO DE ESTADO ,

Devendo terminar em 7 de Maio de 1946 o contrato da Missão

Naval dos Estados Unidos no Brasil , solicito de Vossa Excelência o

obsequio de suas providências, junto às autoridades competentes,

afim de que o referido contrato seja prorrogado pelo prazo de mais

quatro anos . Aproveito a oportunidade para renovar a Vossa Excelência os

protestos da minha mais alta consideração . CARLOS MARTINS PEREIRA E SOUSA

A Sua Excelência o Senhor JAMES F. BYRNES , Secretário de Estado dos Estados Unidos da América.

Translation

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF Brazil

No. 1/530.1 (22)

Washington, January 3, 1946.

MR. SECRETARY OF STATE:

In as much as the Agreement for the United States Naval Mission

in Brazil is due to expire May 7, 1946 , I respectfully request Your Excellency to use your good offices with the proper authorities to the

end that the said Agreement may be extended for a period of four more years .

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.

CARLOS MARTINS PEREIRA E SOUSA

His Excellency JAMES F. BYRNES , Secretary of State of the United States of America.

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL- NAVAL MISSION-Jan. 3, 18, Mar. 21 , May 2, 1946 June 8, Aug. 10, Sept. 17, 1946

2339

The Acting Secretary of State to the Brazilian Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON Jan 18 1946

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's note of January 3 , 1946 in which you convey the request of your

Government for the renewal of the Agreement entered into on May

7 , 1942 , between the Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Brazil, providing for the assignment of a United States Naval Mission to Brazil.
I note that Your Excellency's Government desires to renew this agreement for a period of four years , the renewal to commence upon

56 Stat. 1462.
Inclusion of additional article to basic agreement.

the termination of the present agreement on May 7, 1946 , and I am

pleased to inform Your Excellency that this arrangement is agreeable

to this Government, provided the agreement is so amended as to

include the following language as an additional article to the basic agreement :

"The members of this Mission are permitted and may be
authorized to represent the United States of America on any commission and in any other capacity having to do with military cooperation or hemispheric defense without prejudice to this contract. "

I shall appreciate it if Your Excellency will inform me whether the

suggested amendment is acceptable to the Brazilian Government .

Accept , Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .

For the Acting Secretary of State :

His Excellency

SPRUILLE BRADEN

CARLOS MARTINS ,

Ambassador of Brazil.

The Brazilian Ambassador to the Secretary of State

EMBAIXADA DOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DO BRASIL

N° 61/530.1 ( 22)

Washington, em 21 de março de 1946

SENHOR SECRETÁRIO DE ESTADO,

Tenho a honra de acusar o recebimento da nota de 18 de janeiro do corrente ano , pela qual Vossa Excelência comunicou-me que Governo norte-americano concorda em prorrogar por um periodo de quatro anos, a começar de 7 de maio de 1946 , o contrato da Missão Naval dos Estados Unidos no Brasil, desde que seja incluido no mesmo o seguinte artigo adicional :

"Os membros desta Missão ficam capacitados e podem ser autorizados a representar os Estados Unidos da América em qualquer comissão ou capacidade que se relacione com a cooperação militar ou defesa do Hemisfério , sem prejuizo deste contrato. "

2340

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
2. Em resposta, levo ao conhecimento de Vossa Excelência que o Governo do Brasil concorda com a inclusão do artigo adicional acima mencionado .
Aproveito a oportunidade para renovar a Vossa Excelência os protestos da minha mais alta consideração .
CARLOS MARTINS PEREIRA E SOUSA
A Sua Excelência o Senhor JAMES F. BYRNES , Secretário de Estado dos Estados Unidos da América.

Translation

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF BRAZIL

No. 61/530.1 (22)

Washington, March 21 , 1946

MR. SECRETARY OF STATE :

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of the note of January 18 of the current year by which Your Excellency informed me that United States Government concurs in extending for a period of four years, beginning on May 7, 1946 , the Naval Mission Agreement between the United States of America and Brazil, after the following additional article has been included in the same:

"The members of this Mission are enabled and may be authorized to represent the United States of America on any board or in any capacity which pertains to military cooperation or defense of the Hemisphere , without prejudice to this agreement. "

zilCioanncGuorvreenrcnemeofntBr. a- 2. In reply, I inform Your Excellency that the Government of Brazil concurs in the inclusion of the additional article mentioned above. I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration. CARLOS MARTINS PEREIRA E SOUSA

His Excellency JAMES F. BYRNES , Secretary of State of the United States of America.

The Brazilian Ambassador to the Secretary of State

URGENTE No. 98/530.1 (22)

EMBAIXADA DOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DO BRASIL Washington, em 2 de maio de 1946.

SENHOR SECRETÁRIO DE ESTADO, Em aditamento à minha nota no. 61 , de 21 de março último ,
sôbre a renovação do contrato da Missão Naval Americana no Brasil, tenho a honra de levar ao conhecimento de Vossa Excelência que o Governo brasileiro desejaria que, nas cláusulas do contrato a entrar em vigor no dia 7 do corrente mês, fossem feitos alguns acréscimos e alterações no sentido de:

a) Estabelecer que os oficiais da Missão possam trabalhar junto aos Estados Maiores das Forças Navais ou nos diversos Departa-

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL- NAVAL MISSION- Jan. 3, 18, Mar. 21 , May 2, 1946 June 8, Aug. 10, Sept. 17, 1946
mentos da Marinha, sempre que a sua experiência técnico-profissional se fizer necessária em tais comissões ;
b) Modificar o Capítulo I , Artigo 2 , do atual contrato , acrescentando um novo período assim redigido :
"No caso de serem designados membros da Missão Naval com o fim de familiarizar a Marinha do Brasil no emprego de equipamento ou métodos especiais , poderá o Governo dos Estados Unidos removê-los sem substitui-los, ao finalizarem as tarefas especiais para as quais foram designados."
c) Modificar o Capítulo IV, Artigo 4 do atual contrato , alterando o último período que deverá ter a seguinte redação :
"No caso de pessoal que, a pedido do Ministro da Marinha do Brasil, possa vir a ser designado como membro da Missão com o fim de familiarizar a Marinha do Brasil no emprego de equipamento ou métodos especiais , como disposto no Capítulo I, Artigo 2, o pagamento de despesas para o transporte das famílias, objetos domésticos e automóveis, não estará sujeito a êste contrato, mas será determinado por entendimento entre o Representante da Marinha dos Estados Unidos e o Representante autorizado do Ministério da Marinha do Brasil , em Washington , na época em que for, de comum acôrdo , feita a escolha do pessoal para tal serviço ".
2. As alterações constantes das alineas be c, sugeridas pela Missão Naval Americana, visam atender à necessidade que, para o futuro , a Marinha brasileira terá do auxílio do pessoal da Marinha americana nas questões do treinamento, manutenção e suprimento que aparecerão durante o período de familiarização do pessoal brasileiro com os novos navios e equipamentos. 3. Posto que essa incumbência constitua uma das funções da Missão Naval Americana, tendo em vista o caráter temporário que ela terá em muitos casos, não será necessário que o pessoal dela encarregado seja incluido como membro efetivo da Missão pelo espaço de tempo dos dois anos do contrato . 4. Entretanto , haverá conveniência de dar-se ao pessoal que porventura venha a ser designado para tais funções, uma situação definida no contrato, limitado em tempo pela realização de suas incumbências particulares . 5. Quanto ao assunto do efetivo da Missão Naval Americana, o Governo brasileiro estimaria que o mesmo se compuzesse de: a) Oficiais: (x) 1 Chefe (x) 1 Sub Chefe (x) 1 Oficial de Fazenda (x) 1 Oficial de Armamento (x) 1 Oficial de Comunicações (x) 1 Oficial de Construção Naval
Oficiais para o Ensino (x) 1 Oficial para a Escola de Guerra Naval
95347°-49- PT. III- -5

2341

2342

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
(x) 1 Oficial para o Centro de Treinamento e Escola de Instrutores 1 Oficial para o Método de Seleção do Pessoal subalterno 1 Oficial para a Escola de Formação de Técnicos em reparo e conservação de equipamento electrônico , rádio, radar e sonar Oficiais de Máquinas 1 Oficial de Caldeiras 1 Oficial de Turbinas 1 Oficial de Controle de Avarias 1 Oficial de Fábrica de Torpedos 1 Oficial de Medicina 1 Oficial do Corpo de Fuzileiros Navais
(x) 2 Oficiais para o serviço da Secretaria da Missão
18 Total de Oficiais. b) Sub-Oficiais:
1 Sub-Oficial especializado em reparo e conservação de equipamento ótico 1 Sub-Oficial Torpedista com experiência de submarino 1 Sub- Oficial Motorista com conhecimento de frigoríficos 1 Sub- Oficial de Caldeiras com conhecimento de Caldeiras de alta pressão 1 Sub-Oficial de Máquinas com conhecimento de turbinas a vapor 1 Sub- Oficial Eletricista com conhecimento de giroscópicas e comunicações
internas 1 Sub-Oficial especializado em canalização e controle de avarias 1 Sub-Oficial Artilheiro ou Chefe de Torre com conhecimento de organização
e treinamento de guarnições de canhões e conservação de suas respectivas baterias (x) 1 Sub-Oficial para os serviços da Secretaria da Missão Naval 1 Sub-Oficial para os serviços da Secretaria da Escola de Guerra Naval 1 Sub-Oficial para a Diretoria do Ensino Naval
11 Total de Sub-Oficiais .
Os Oficiais e Sub -Oficiais marcados com (x) já se encontram no Brasil.
6. Muito agradeceria a Vossa Excelência o obséquio de me informar se o Governo americano concorda com o que propõe o Govêrno brasileiro, e foi exposto por mim nesta nota, no tocante aos acréscimos e alterações nas cláusulas do contrato da Missão Naval e também quanto à constituição de seu efetivo .
7. Finalmente , comunico a Vossa Excelência que o Governo brasileiro nada tem a opôr à sugestão feita pela Missão Naval Americana sobre o restabelecimento da cláusula que figurava nos contratos anteriores ao vigente, segundo a qual eram concedidos aos membros da Missão os
mesmos direitos e privilégios de que gozam os representantes diplomáticos de categoria correspondente acreditados no Brasil .
Aproveito a oportunidade para renovar a Vossa Excelência os protestos da minha mais alta consideração .
CARLOS MARTINS PEREIRA E SOUSA
A Sua Excelência o Senhor JAMES F. BYRNES , Secretário de Estado dos Estados Unidos da América.

61 STAT. ] BRAZIL- NAVAL MISSION- Jan. 3, 18, Mar. 21 , May 2, 1946 June 8, Aug. 10, Sept. 17, 1946
Translation

2343

URGENT No. 98/530.1 (22)

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF BRAZIL Washington, May 2, 1946

MR. SECRETARY OF STATE :

Supplementary to my note No. 61 , of March 21 last, concerning the
renewal of the Naval Mission Agreement between the United States Insertion of addi-
of America and Brazil , I have the honor to inform Your Excellency tions and alterations that the Brazilian Government wishes to have certain additions and in agreement.

alterations inserted in the articles of the Agreement which is to come into force on the seventh of the current month, in order to :

a) Establish the fact that the officers of the Mission may work in conjunction with the Staffs of the Naval Forces or in the various Bu-

reaus of the Navy, whenever their technical and professional experience is required on such commissions ;
b) Modify Title I , Article 2 , of the present Agreement by the addition of a new sentence, to read as follows:

56 Stat. 1462.

"In case members of the Naval Mission are appointed for the purpose of familiarizing the Brazilian Navy with the use of special equipment or methods, the United States Government may withdraw them without replacing them, on the completion of the special assignments for which they were appointed . "
c) Modify Title IV, Article 4 of the present agreement, changing the final sentence to read as follows:

56 Stat. 1466.

"In the case of personnel who , at the request of the Minister of Marine of Brazil , may be appointed as members of the Mission for the purpose of familiarizing the Brazilian Navy with the use of special equipment or methods, as set forth in Title I , Article 2, the payment of expenses for the transportation of families , household effects and automobiles shall not be subject to this agreement, but shall be determined by negotiation between the representative of the United States Navy and the authorized representative of the Ministry of Marine of Brazil in Washington at such time as the choice of the personnel for such duty may be agreed upon. "

56 Stat. 1462.

2. The changes given in paragraphs b and c , suggested by the United States Naval Mission, are intended to provide for the need which the Brazilian Navy will have in future for the assistance of personnel of the United States Navy in questions of training , maintenance and supply which will arise during the period in which Brazilian personnel is being familiarized with the new ships and equipment. 3. Although that duty constitutes one of the functions of the United States Naval Mission, in view of the fact that in many cases it will be of a temporary character, it will not be necessary that the personnel assigned to it be included as full members of the Mission for the entire two years of the agreement. 4. However, it will be advisable to assign the personnel who may be

2344

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

appointed to such duties a status which is defined in the agreement, to terminate upon completion of their particular assignments. Proposed composition of U. S. Naval 5. With regard to the strength of the United States Naval Mission, Mission. the Brazilian Government would like for it to be composed of:
a) Officers (x) 1 chief (x) 1 assistant chief (x) 1 finance officer (x) 1 ordnance officer (x) 1 communications officer (x) 1 naval construction officer
Officers to serve as Instructors
(x) 1 officer for the Naval War School (x) 1 officer for the Training Center and Instructors' School
1 officer for the System of Selection of Subaltern Personnel 1 officer for the School for Training Technicians in the repair and mainte-
nance of electronic radio, radar and sound equipment.
Engineer Officers 1 boiler officer 1 turbine officer 1 damage control officer 1 torpedo factory officer 1 medical officer 1 Marine Corps officer (x) 2 officers to serve at Staff Headquarters of the Mission.

18 Total number of officers
b) Petty Officers
1 petty officer specialist in the repair and maintenance of optical equipment 1 petty officer torpedoman with experience in submarines 1 petty officer motor expert, with a knowledge of refrigerator plants 1 petty officer, boiler specialist, with a knowledge of high-pressure boilers 1 machinist's mate with a knowledge of steam turbines 1 electrician's mate with a knowledge of gyroscopes and internal communica-
tions 1 petty officer specialist in the localizing and control of damage 1 gunner's mate or turret chief with a knowledge of the organization and
training of gun crews and the maintenance of their respective batteries. (x) 1 petty officer to serve at Staff Headquarters of the Mission
1 petty officer to serve at the headquarters of the Naval War School 1 petty officer to serve in the office of the Director of Naval Instruction

11 Total number of petty officers
The officers and petty officers marked " (x) " are already in Brazil , 6. I should be very grateful if Your Excellency would be so good as to inform me whether the American Government is in agreement with these proposals of the Brazilian Government, as set forth by me in this note, with reference to the additions and alterations in the articles of the Naval Mission Agreement, and also with reference to the composition of its complement. 7. Lastly, I inform Your Excellency that the Brazilian Government has no objection to the suggestion made by the United States Naval Mission concerning the reestablishment of the clause which appeared in our agreements prior to the one now in force, according to which the

Jan. 3, 18, Mar. 21 , May 2, 1946 61 STAT. ] BRAZIL- NAVAL MISSION- June 8, Aug. 10, Sept. 17, 1946
members of the Mission were granted the same rights and privileges which are enjoyed by diplomatic representatives of corresponding rank accredited in Brazil.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
CARLOS MARTINS PEREIRA E SOUSA
His Excellency JAMES F. BYRNES Secretary of State of the United States of America

2345

The Secretary of State to the Brazilian Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON Jun 8 1946
EXCELLENCY: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's
note , no . 98/530.1 (22 ) dated May 2 , 1946 , requesting certain modifications to the basic Agreement entered into on May 7, 1942 and extended for a period of four years by an exchange of notes dated January 3 and 18 and March 21 , 1946 respectively, which provides for the assignment of a United States Naval Mission to Brazil.
In this connection, I am pleased to inform Your Excellency that the modification of Title IV, Article 4 of the basic Agreement, as suggested in paragraph (c) of Your Excellency's note under reference, is acceptable to the Government of the United States of America provided the Agreement is amended as follows : after the word " appointed " there shall be inserted "for a period of less than six months ." The Navy Department is of the opinion that for periods longer than six months, temporary members of the Mission should not , in peacetime , be ordered to duty which would require separation from their families for an excessive length of time. When the services of temporary members are required for longer than six months, they should be entitled to the privileges of the present Agreement.
With regard to the new composition suggested for the Mission, the Navy Department informs the Department it cannot make definite commitments to furnish all the specialized personnel of officers and enlisted men requested , although every effort will be put forth to make them available .
I shall appreciate it if Your Excellency will inform me whether the suggested amendment is acceptable to the Brazilian Government.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
For the Secretary of State: SPRUILLE BRADEN
His Excellency CARLOS MARTINS,
Ambassador of Brazil.

56 Stat. 1462. Ante, pp. 2338, 2339. 56 Stat. 1466.

2346

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Brazilian Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

No. 205/530.1 (22)

EMBAIXADA DOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DO BRASIL Washington, em 10 de agosto de 1946.

SENHOR SECRETÁRIO DE ESTADO, Em aditamento a minha nota no. 124/530.1 (22 ) , de 11 de junho
último , relativa ao contrato da Missão Naval Americana no Brasil, tenho a honra de levar ao conhecimento de Vossa Excelência que o Governo brasileiro , atendendo às razões apresentadas pelo Governo americano, concorda com a alteração proposta para a redação do Art. 4, Capítulo IV do referido contrato .
2. Esse artigo passará então a ficar assim redigido :
"No caso de pessoal que, a pedido do Ministro da Marinha do Brasil, possa vir a ser designado , por um período inferior a seis meses , como Membro da Missão, com o fim de familiarisar a Marinha do Brasil no emprego de equipamento ou métodos especiais, como disposto no Capítulo I , Artigo 2 , o pagamento de despesas para o transporte das famílias, objetos domésticos e automóveis não estará sujeito a êste contrato, mas será determinado por entendimentos entre o Representante da Marinha dos Estados Unidos e o Representante autorizado do Ministério da Marinha do Brasil em Washington , na época em que fôr, de comum acôrdo, feita a escolha do pessoal para tal serviço " .

3. Quanto ao efetivo da Missão Naval Americana no Brasil, comunico a Vossa Excelência que o Govêrno brasileiro estimaria que do mesmo constasse também um "Chief fire Control man " graduado em curso de reparo, no Navy Yard-Washington, D. C. , conhecendo profundamente o reparo do sistema Diretor marca XXXIII , os controles à distância, elétrico e hidro-elétrico , marcas 4 e 5 e que tenha também experiência na instalação do equipamento de Artilharia a bordo dos novos Contratorpedeiros.
Aproveito a oportunidade para renovar a Vossa Excelência os protestos da minha mais alta consideração .
CARLOS MARTINS PEREIRA E SOUSA

A Sua Excelência o Senhor DEAN ACHESON, Secretário de Estado interino dos Estados Unidos da América.

Translation

No. 205/530.1(22)

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF BRAZIL Washington, August 10, 1946

MR. SECRETARY OF STATE : In supplement to my note No. 124/530.1 (22) , of June 11 last, [']
relative to the agreement for the American Naval Mission in Brazil, I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Brazilian Government , taking into consideration the reasons given by the American

1¹ [ Not printed . ]

Jan. 3, 18, Mar. 21 , May 2 , 1946 61 STAT. ] BRAZIL- NAVAL MISSION- June 8, Aug. 10, Sept. 17, 1946

2347

Government, agrees to the proposed change in the wording of Art. 4 , Chapter IV, of the said contract. 2. This article shall therefore be worded thus :

56 Stat. 1466.

"In the case of personnel who, at the request of the Minister

of Marine of Brazil, may join the Mission for a period of less

than six months for the purpose of instructing the Brazilian

Navy in the use of equipment or special methods , as provided

in Title I , Art. 2, payment of expenses for the transportation of families, household effects and automobiles shall not be

required under this Agreement, but shall be determined by agreement between the representative of the United States

Navy and the authorized representative of the Ministry of Marine of Brazil in Washington at such time as the detail of

personnel for such duty may be agreed upon."
3. With respect to the members of the American Naval Mission in Brazil , I communicate to Your Excellency that the Brazilian Govern-

Addition of chieffire control man to members of Mission.

ment would be gratified if there were among the members a "Chief

Fire Control Man" who has passed a course in repairs at the Navy

Yard in Washington, D. C. , and who is well acquainted with repairs on the Director XXXIII type system, distance control, electric and hydro-electric, types 4 and 5 , and who has likewise had experience in the installation of artillery equipment aboard the new destroyers.

I avail myself of this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.

CARLOS MARTINS PEREIRA E SOUSA

His Excellency DEAN ACHESON , Acting Secretary of State of the United States of America.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Brazilian Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON Sep 17 1946
EXCELLENCY :
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's note , no. 205/530.1 (22) of August 10 , 1946 , concerning the renewal of the Agreement for the United States Naval Mission to Brazil signed May 7 , 1942 .
In this connection, I am pleased to note that the extension of the Agreement, with the changes in the wording of Title IV, Article 4, as set forth in your note, is agreeable to your Government .
I am informed that the Navy Department is seeking a Chief Fire Control Man and as soon as a suitable selection is made his name and biographical sketch will be submitted for consideration by your Government .

56 Stat. 1462. 56 Stat. 1466.

2348

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
For the Acting Secretary of State : SPRUILLE BRADEN
His Excellency CARLOS MARTINS, Ambassador of Brazil.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946

2349

Arrangement between the United States of America and other governments respecting a World Health Organization and the establishment of an Interim Commission. Signed at New York July 22, 1946; effective July 22, 1946.

July 22, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1561]

ARRANGEMENT CONCLUDED BY THE GOVERNMENTS REPRESENTED AT THE INTERNATIONAL HEALTH CONFERENCE

Held in the City of New York, from 19 June to 22 July 1946

THE GOVERNMENTS represented at the International Health Con-

ference convened on 19 June 1946 in the City of New York by the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations,

Having agreed that an international organization to be known as the World Health Organization shall be established ,
Having this day agreed upon a Constitution for the World Health Organization , and

Having resolved that, pending the coming into force of the Constitution and the establishment of the World Health Organization, as provided in the Constitution, an Interim Commission should be established ,
AGREE as follows :

1. There is hereby established an Interim Commission of the World Health Organization consisting of the following eighteen States entitled to designate persons to serve on it : Australia, Brazil, Canada,

Establishment of Interim Commission of World Health Or-
ganization .

China, Egypt, France, India, Liberia, Mexico , Netherlands , Norway,

Peru, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, United Kingdom , United

States of America, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Venezuela

and Yugoslavia. Each of these States should designate to the Interim

Commission a person technically qualified in the field of health, who may be accompanied by alternates and advisers.
2. The functions of the Interim Commission shall be :

Functions .

(a) to convoke the first session of the World Health Assembly as soon as practicable, but not later than six months after the date on which the Constitution of the Organization comes into force ; (b) to prepare and submit to the signatories to this Arrangement, at least six weeks before the first session of the Health Assembly, the provisional agenda for that session and necessary documents and recommendations relating thereto, including :
(i) proposals as to programme and budget for the first year of the Organization, (ii) studies regarding location of headquarters of the Organization ,

2350
59 Stat. 1046.
59 Stat. 1046.
Transfer of functions, etc., of League of Nations Health Organization.
35 Stat. 2061.
59 Stat. 955 . 45 Stat. 2492. 61 Stat., Pt. 2, p. 1115 . 59 Stat. 991. 49 Stat. 3279. 61 Stat., Pt. 2, p. 1122 . Arrangements, etc., with other organizations.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
(iii) studies regarding the definition of geographical areas with a view to the eventual establishment of regional organizations as contemplated in Chapter XI of the Constitution, due consideration being given to the views of the governments concerned, and (iv) draft financial and staff regulations for approval by the Health Assembly.
In carrying out the provisions of this paragraph due consideration shall be given to the proceedings of the International Health Conference . (c) to enter into negotiations with the United Nations with a view to the preparation of an agreement or agreements as contemplated in Article 57 of the Charter of the United Nations and in Article 69 of the Constitution. Such agreement or agreements shall :
(i) provide for effective co-operation between the two organizations in the pursuit of their common purposes ; (ii) facilitate, in conformity with Article 58 of the Charter, the coordination of the policies and activities of the Organization with those of other specialized agencies ; and (iii) at the same time recognize the autonomy of the Organization within the field of its competence as defined in its Constitution.
(d) to take all necessary steps to effect the transfer from the United Nations to the Interim Commission of the functions, activities, and assets of the League of Nations Health Organization which have been assigned to the United Nations ; (e) to take all necessary steps in accordance with the provisions of the Protocol concerning the Office International d'Hygiène publique signed 22 July 1946 for the transfer to the Interim Commission of the duties and functions of the Office, and to initiate any action necessary to facilitate the transfer of the assets and liabilities of the Office to the World Health Organiza-
tion upon the termination of the Rome Agreement of 1907 ; (f) to take all necessary steps for assumption by the Interim Commission of the duties and functions entrusted to the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration by the International Sanitary Convention, 1944 , modifying the International Sanitary Convention of 21 June 1926 , the Protocol to Prolong the International Sanitary Convention, 1944 , the International Sanitary Convention for Aerial Navigation, 1944 , modifying the International Sanitary Convention for Aerial Navigation of 12 April 1933 , and the Protocol to Prolong the International Sanitary Convention for Aerial Navigation, 1944 ; (g) to enter into the necessary arrangements with the Pan American sanitary organization and other existing inter-governmental regional health organizations with a view to giving

81 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION--JULY 22, 1946

2351

effect to the provisions of Article 54 of the Constitution , which arrangements shall be subject to approval by the Health Assembly ; (h) to establish effective relations and enter into negotiations with a view to concluding agreements with other inter-governmental organizations as contemplated in Article 70 of the Constitution ; (i) to study the question of relations with non-governmental international organizations and with national organizations in accordance with Article 71 of the Constitution, and to make interim arrangements for consultation and co-operation with such organizations as the Interim Commission may consider desirable ; (j ) to undertake initial preparations for revising, unifying and strengthening existing international sanitary conventions ; (k) to review existing machinery and undertake such preparatory work as may be necessary in connection with :

(i) the next decennial revision of "The International Lists of Causes of Death" (including the lists adopted under the International Agreement of 1934 relating to Statistics of Causes of Death) ; and (ii) the establishment of International Lists of Causes of Morbidity ;

49 Stat. 3785.

(1) to establish effective liaison with the Economic and Social Council and such of its commissions as may appear desirable, in particular the Commission on Narcotic Drugs ; and (m) to consider any urgent health problem which may be brought to its notice by any government, to give technical advice in regard thereto, to bring urgent health needs to the attention of governments and organizations which may be in a position to assist, and to take such steps as may be desirable to co-ordinate any assistance such governments and organizations may undertake to provide .

3. The Interim Commission may establish such committees as it considers desirable.
4. The Interim Commission shall elect its Chairman and other
officers, adopt its own rules of procedure, and consult such persons as may be necessary to facilitate its work.
5. The Interim Commission shall appoint an Executive Secretary who shall :

Election of Chairman and other officers.
Duties of Executive Secretary.

(a) be its chief technical and administrative officer ; (b) be ex-officio secretary of the Interim Commission and of all committees established by it ; (c) have direct access to national health administrations in such manner as may be acceptable to the government concerned ; and (d) perform such other functions and duties as the Interim Commission may determine.

2352

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

6. The Executive Secretary, subject to the general authority of the Interim Commission, shall appoint such technical and administrative staff as may be required . In making these appointments he shall have due regard for the principles embodied in Article 35 of the Constitution. He shall take into consideration the desirability of appointing available personnel from the staffs of the League of Nations Health Organization , the Office International d'Hygiène publique, and the Health Division of the United Nations Relief and

First session. Expenses. Budget estimates.

Rehabilitation Administration . He may appoint officials and specialists made available by governments. Pending the recruitment and organization of his staff, he may utilize such technical and administrative assistance as the Secretary-General of the United Nations may make available .
7. The Interim Commission shall hold its first session in New
York immediately after its appointment and shall meet thereafter as often as may be necessary, but not less than once in every four months. At each session the Interim Commission shall determine the place of its next session .
8. The expenses of the Interim Commission shall be met from funds provided by the United Nations and for this purpose the Interim Commission shall make the necessary arrangements with the appropriate authorities of the United Nations . Should these funds be insufficient, the Interim Commission may accept advances from governments . Such advances may be set off against the contributions of the governments concerned to the Organization .
9. The Executive Secretary shall prepare and the Interim Commission shall review and approve budget estimates :

(a) for the period from the establishment of the Interim Commission until 31 December 1946 , and

(b) for subsequent periods as necessary .

Report.

10. The Interim Commission shall submit a report of its activities.

Termination of Interim Commission.

to the Health Assembly at its first session. 11. The Interim Commission shall cease to exist upon resolution of
the Health Assembly at its first session, at which time the property

and records of the Interim Commission and such of its staff as may be

required shall be transferred to the Organization .
Date of entry into 12. This Arrangement shall come into force for all signatories on this force.
day's date .

Authentic texts.

IN FAITH WHEREOF the undersigned representatives, having been duly authorized for that purpose , sign this Arrangement in the Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish languages, all texts being equally authentic .

Post, pp. 2371, 2394. SIGNED in the City of New York this twenty-second day of July 1946 .

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946

2353

ARRANGEMENT CONCLU PAR LES GOUVERNEMENTS REPRESENTES A LA CONFERENCE INTERNATIONALE DE LA SANTE QUI S'EST TENUE A NEW-YORK, DU 19 JUIN AU 22 JUILLET 1946.
LES GOUVERNEMENTS représentés à la Conférence internationale de la santé, convoquée le 19 juin 1946 à New-York par le Conseil économique et social de l'Organisation des Nations Unies,
Ayant décidé de créer une organisation internationale qui prendra le nom d'Organisation mondiale de la santé ,
Ayant adopté, ce jour, un texte de constitution de l'Organisation mondiale de la santé, et
Ayant décidé de créer, en attendant l'entrée en vigueur de la Constitution et l'établissement de l'Organisation mondiale de la santé, telle qu'elle est prévue dans la Constitution, une commission intérimaire,
DECIDENT ce qui suit: 1. Il est créé, par les présentes, une Commission intérimaire de l'Organisation mondiale de la santé, composée des dix-huit Etats ci-après désignés, habilités à nommer les personnes devant en faire partie:
Australie, Brésil, Canada, Chine, Egypte, Etats-Unis d'Amérique, France, Inde, Libéria , Mexique, Norvège , Pays-Bas, Pérou , Royaume-Uni, République Socialiste Soviétique d'Ukraine, Union des Républiques Socialistes Soviétiques, Vénézuéla, Yougoslavie . Chacun de ces Etats devrait désigner pour siéger à la Commission intérimaire une personnalité, techniquement qualifiée dans les questions de santé, et qui pourra être accompagnée de suppléants et de conseillers .
2. La Commission intérimaire aura pour fonctions:
a) de convoquer la première session de l'Assemblée mondiale de la santé, aussitôt que possible et six mois au plus tard après la date de l'entrée en vigueur de la Constitution de l'Organisation ; b) de préparer et de soumettre aux signataires de cet arrangement , six semaines au moins avant la première session de l'Assemblée mondiale de la santé, l'ordre du jour provisoire de cette session ainsi que les documents et les recommandations nécessaires s'y rapportant, notamment:
(i) les propositions relatives au programme de travail et au budget de l'Organisation, pour la première année ; (ii) des études portant sur le lieu d'établissement du siège de l'Organisation ;

2354

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
(iii) des études concernant la détermination des régions géographiques en vue de la création éventuelle des organisations régionales envisagées dans le Chapitre XI de la Constitution et qui tiendront dûment compte des points de vue des Gouvernements intéressés , et (iv) un projet de règlement financier et de statut du personnel pour approbation par l'Assemblée générale .
Pour la mise en oeuvre des dispositions de ce paragraphe, il y aura lieu d'accorder une attention particulière aux délibérations de la Conférence internationale de la santé. c) entamer des négociations avec l'Organisation des Nations Unies en vue de préparer un ou plusieurs accords , ainsi qu'il est prévu à l'article 57 de la Charte des Nations Unies et à l'article 69 de la Constitution . Cet accord ou ces accords devront:
(i) établir une collaboration effective entre les deux Organisations dans la poursuite de leur but commun ; (ii) faciliter, conformément à l'article 58 de la Charte, la coordination de la politique générale et de l'activité de l'Organisation avec celle d'autres institutions spécialisées ; et (iii ) en même temps , reconnaître l'autonomie de l'Organisation dans le domaine de sa compétence, tel qu'il est défini dans sa Constitution.
d) prendre toutes les mesures nécessaires en vue de procéder au transfert, des Nations Unies à la Commission intérimaire , des fonctions, activités et avoirs de l'Organisation d'hygiène de la Société des Nations qui ont été assignés jusqu'ici à l'Organisation des Nations Unies ; e) prendre toutes mesures nécessaires , conformément aux dispositions du Protocole, signé le 22 juillet 1946 , concernant l'Office International d'Hygiène publique, pour le transfert à la Commission intérimaire des charges et fonctions de l'Office, et prendre l'initiative de toutes mesures nécessaires en vue de faciliter le transfert de l'actif et du passif de l'Office à l'Organisation mondiale de la santé, lorsque l'Arrangement de Rome de 1907 arrivera à expiration ; f) prendre toutes les mesures nécessaires en vue de permettre à la Commission intérimaire d'assumer les charges et fonctions confiées à l'Administration des Nations Unies pour les Secours et la Réhabilitation (UNRRA) par la Convention sanitaire internationale de 1944 portant modification de la Convention sanitaire internationale du 21 juin 1926 , le protocole prorogeant la Convention sanitaire internationale de 1944 , la Convention sanitaire internationale pour la Navigation aérienne de 1944 portant modification de la Convention sanitaire internationale pour la Navigation aérienne du 12 avril 1933 et le protocole prorogeant la Convention sanitaire internationale pour la Navigation aérienne de 1944 ;

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH OR GANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946
g) conclure les accords nécessaires avec l'Organisation sanitaire panaméricaine et les autres organisations régionales intergouvernementales de santé existantes, en vue de donner effet à l'article 54 de la Constitution , sous réserve de l'approbation de ces accords par l'Assemblée de la santé; h) établir des relations effectives et entamer des négociations en vue de conclure des accords avec d'autres organisations intergouvernementales, tel que prévu à l'article 70 de la Constitution ; i) étudier la question des relations avec les organisations internationales non-gouvernementales et avec les organisations nationales, conformément à l'article 71 de la Constitution, et prendre des dispositions provisoires lui permettant d'entrer en consultation et de coopérer avec telles organisations que la Commission intérimaire jugera souhaitables ; j) entreprendre les premiers préparatifs en vue de la révision, l'unification et le renforcement des conventions sanitaires internationales existantes ; k) étudier l'ensemble du mécanisme existant et entreprendre les travaux préparatoires qui peuvent être nécessaires:
(i) en vue de la prochaine révision décennale des "Nomenclatures internationales des causes de décès " (y compris les listes adoptées conformément à l'Accord international de 1934, ayant trait aux statistiques des causes de décès) , et (ii) de l'établissement des listes internationales des causes de maladies ;
1) établir une liaison effective avec le Conseil économique et social et celles de ses commissions avec lesquelles il apparaîtra utile de le faire, en particulier avec la Commission des stupéfiants ; m) examiner tous les problèmes de santé urgents que tout Gouvernement pourra lui signaler, donner des conseils techniques à leur sujet, attirer l'attention des Gouvernements et des Organisations, susceptibles d'apporter leur concours sur les besoins urgents en ce qui concerne la santé et prendre toutes les mesures désirables afin de coordonner toute assistance que ces Gouvernements et ces Organisations sont susceptibles d'apporter. 3. La Commission intérimaire peut créer les commissions qu'elle estime désirables . 4. La Commission intérimaire élit son Président et son bureau, adopte son propre règlement et consulte toutes personnes susceptibles de faciliter son travail. 5. La Commission intérimaire désigne un Secrétaire exécutif, lequel :
a) est le plus haut fonctionnaire technique et administratif; b) est, de droit, secrétaire de la Commission intérimaire et de tous les comités créés par elle; c) a accès directement auprès des administrations nationales de santé, selon des modalités que peut agréer le Gouvernement intéressé;

2355

2356

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
d) remplit toutes autres fonctions et charges que la Commission intérimaire pourra fixer.
6. Dans les limites de l'autorisation générale donnée par la Commission intérimaire, le Secrétaire exécutif nomme le personnel technique et administratif nécessaire. En procédant à ces nominations , il prend en considération les principes contenus dans l'article 35 de la Constitution. Il tiendra compte, en outre, du fait qu'il est desirable de nommer le personnel disponible choisi parmi les fonctionnaires de l'Organisation d'hygiène de la Société des Nations , de l'Office International d'Hygiène publique et de la Division de la santé de l'Administration des Nations Unies pour les Secours et la Réhabilitation (UNRRA) . Il peut nommer des fonctionnaires et des spécialistes mis à sa disposition par les Gouvernements . En attendant d'avoir pu recruter et organiser son personnel, il peut recevoir toute aide technique et administrative que le Secrétaire général des Nations Unies est en mesure de lui fournir.
7. La Commission intérimaire tiendra sa première séance à NewYork immédiatement après sa création et se réunira par la suite aussi souvent que nécessaire mais au moins une fois tous les quatre mois. A chaque session, la Commission intérimaire détermine le lieu de sa prochaine session .
8. Les dépenses de la Commission intérimaire sont couvertes au moyen de fonds fournis par les Nations Unies et la Commission intérimaire prendra dans ce but les dispositions nécessaires avec les autorités compétentes des Nations Unies. Dans le cas où ces fonds seraient insuffisants, la Commission intérimaire pourra accepter des avances des Gouvernements. Ces avances pourront être effectuées sur les contributions des Gouvernements appartenant à l'Organisation .
9. Le Secrétaire exécutif est chargé de préparer et la Commission intérimaire de reviser et d'approuver les prévisions budgétaires :
a) afférentes à la période allant de la création de la Commission intérimaire jusqu'au 31 décembre 1946 , et b) afférentes aux périodes ultérieures pour lesquelles il y aurait lieu de le faire.
10. La Commission intérimaire soumettra un rapport sur son activité à l'Assemblée de la santé lors de sa première session.
11. La Commission intérimaire cessera d'exister en vertu d'une résolution de l'Assemblée de la santé lors de sa première session, époque à laquelle les biens et les archives de la Commission intérimaire ainsi que cette partie de son personnel jugée nécessaire seront transférés à l'Organisation.
12. Cet Arrangement entrera en vigueur pour tous les signataires à la date de ce jour.
EN FOI DE QUOI les Représentants soussignés, dûment autorisés à cet effet, signent le présent Arrangement en langues anglaise, chinoise, espagnole, française et russe, tous ces textes étant également authentiques .
SIGNE en la Ville de New-York ce vingt-deux juillet 1946 .

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946

2357

 
    (                     ,        ;     ;         ,    ,     ;   : 1.   ,       :  ,  ,  ,  ·  ,  ,  ·  ,  ,      ,   ,  ,  ,  ,    ·    ,   ,        2 ·  :       ,      ,                     ,     
     ,    :       ,    ,  ·   ,         
  ;  ·    ,     ;
  ,                 
       :      ,   ;  ·    ,       
 ;  ,           ·  ,    
 ,  ;
[1]
95347° -49- PT. III- 6

2358

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
 ·  ,             ,    ,         ,       ;
 ·   ,           :     (       ) ;        ;     (          ) ;       
 ·            ,     ,       ;
 ·        ,         ,   ;
 ·          ,       ,       ;
 ·    ,  -   ·       :
        (          ) ;
 ·   ;  ·      ,   ,  
  ;  ·        ,     
 ,         ,                3.      4.          ·    ,       3    5.    ,    ,       :        ;        ;  ·      6       ,            ,               ,               · 
[2]

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION -JULY 22, 1946
      ,         
7.        ,      ,         ,    
8.          ,        ,     ,                 
9 ·      ,   :  ·                 ·    
10 ·          · 11.         ,          12 ·            ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,     ,   
      

2359

[3]

2360

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

       ,    -   19   22  , 1946.
,      ,          - 19  1946 . ,
    ,          ,
      (  )   , 
 ,             ,     ,    ,
   : 1.        ,     ,      ,      :  ,  , ,  , ,  , ,  ,  ,  ,  , ,   :  ,   ,    ,     ,  K  .           ,     ,       . 2.     :
a)            ,           ; b)      .          
-1-

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946  ,           ,   , : 1)         , 11 )      , 111 )      ,       ,    X1 ,       ,  1 )             .               } c )       ,        ,   57      69    ·     : 1)              : 11)      58                ; 111 )           ,     ; a)       -
-8-

2361

2362

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STA.
      ,       ,   ; 6)    ,           ( Office International d'Hygiene publique ) ,  22  1946  .;            ,            ,     1907 .; 1)            ,            1944 . ,       21  1926 . ,          1944 . ,             12  1933 . ,             1944 .; 6)                         54     ,    -
  ; h)               ,      70 
-3-

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946
  ; 1 )            ,     71     ,            ,       ; 1)     ,        ;  )        ,        :
1)         " (   ,     1934 .     )  11)      ; 1)              ,       ,        ;  )     ,         ,      ,      ,    ,    ,   ,    ,         ,       

2363

2364

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

    . 3.      ,     ·

4.          ,           ,     

   .

5.

    , -

 :

)      

 ;

b)    (  off1c10 )  -

     ,  ;

c)      -

     ,  

 ; a)       , 

     .

6.

  ,    -

  ,      ,

    ·   ,  -

    ,    35 

  ·    

   ,     

    ,     (Office International d'Hygiene publique )   -

       ·

       ,  -

     .     

       

-5-

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946
,         .
7.       -             ,        .           .
8.       ,   ,  ,   ,          .      ,       .            ·
9.    ,        :
a)         31  1946 .  b)    ,   . 10.             · 11.              ,     ,      ,    , ·  · 12 .               .
    ,   

2365

2366

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.   ,     , , ,    ,      .
   -     , 1946 .

-7-

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946

2367

ARREGLO CONCLUIDO ENTRE LOS GOBIERNOS REPRESENTADOS EN LA CONFERENCIA INTERNACIONAL DE LA SALUD
Celebrada en la Ciudad de Nueva York, del 19 de junio al 22 de julio de 1946
LOS GOBIERNOS representados en la Conferencia Internacional de la Salud reunida el 19 de junio de 1946 en la ciudad de Nueva York convocada por el Consejo Económico y Social de las Naciones Unidas ,
Habiendo acordado que se establecerá una organización internacional que será conocida como Organización Mundial de la Salud ,
Habiendo acordado en esta fecha una Constitución para la Organización Mundial de la Salud, y
Habiendo resuelto que, hasta tanto entre en vigor la Constitución y se establezca la Organización Mundial de la Salud, como se dispone en la Constitución , se debe establecer una Comisión Interina,
ACUERDAN lo siguiente :
1. Por este acto se establece una Comisión Interina de la Organización Mundial de la Salud compuesta por los siguientes dieciocho Estados , facultados para designar las personas que la integren : Australia, Brasil , Canadá, China, Egipto , Estados Unidos de América, Francia, Holanda, India, Liberia , México, Noruega, Perú, Reino Unido , República Socialista Soviética de Ucrania, Unión de Repúblicas Socialistas Soviéticas, Venezuela y Yugoslavia. Cada uno de estos Estados debería designar para la Comisión Interina una persona técnicamente capacitada en el campo de la salud, que podrá ser acompañada por suplentes y asesores.
2. Las funciones de la Comisión Interina serán :
(a) convocar la primera sesión de la Asamblea Mundial de la Salud tan pronto como sea posible, pero no más de seis meses después de que la Constitución de la Organización entre en vigor ; (b) preparar y presentar a los signatarios de este Arreglo , por lo menos seis semanas antes de la primera sesión de la Asamblea de la Salud , el programa provisional para esa sesión y los documentos y recomendaciones necesarios relacionados con ella, inclusive :
(i) proposiciones respecto al programa y al presupuesto para el primer año de la Organización, (ii) estudios relativos a la ubicación de la sede de la Organización , (iii) estudios relativos a la demarcación de las zonas geográficas con miras al establecimiento eventual de las organizaciones regionales a que se refiere el Capítulo XI de la Constitución, tomando en debida consideración las opiniones de los gobiernos interesados, y

2368

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
(iv) redactar reglamentos financieros y de personal para ser sometidos a la aprobación de la Asamblea de la Salud . Al llevar a efecto las disposiciones de este párrafo se dará debida consideración a las actas de la Conferencia Internacional de la Salud . (c) entrar en negociaciones con las Naciones Unidas con el fin de preparar el acuerdo o acuerdos previstos en el Artículo 57 de la Carta de las Naciones Unidas, y en el Artículo 69 de la Constitución . Dicho acuerdo o acuerdos :
(i) dispondrán la cooperación eficaz entre las dos organizaciones para la consecución de sus objetivos comunes ; (ii ) facilitarán , de acuerdo con el Artículo 58 de la Carta, la coordinación de la política y actividades de la Organización con las de los organismos especializados ; y (iii ) reconocerán al mismo tiempo la autonomía de la Organización en el campo de su competencia , tal como se define en su Constitución.
(d) tomar todas las medidas necesarias para hacer efectivo el traspaso a la Comisión Interina de las funciones, actividades y bienes de la Organización de Higiene de la Sociedad de las Naciones que han sido asignados a las Naciones Unidas ; (e) tomar todas las medidas necesarias, de acuerdo con las disposiciones del protocolo relativo al Office International
d'Hygiène Publique , suscrito el 22 de julio de 1946 , para el traspaso a la Comisión Interina, de los deberes y funciones del Office , e iniciar la acción que sea necesaria para facilitar el traspaso de los bienes y obligaciones del Office a la Organización Mundial de la Salud cuando cese el Acuerdo de Roma de 1907 ; (f) tomar todas las medidas necesarias para que la Comisión Interina asuma las obligaciones y funciones encomendadas a la Administración de Socorros y Rehabilitación de las Naciones Unidas por la Convención Sanitaria Internacional de 1944 que modifica la Convención Sanitaria Internacional del 21 de junio de 1926 , el Protocolo para Prolongar la Convención Sanitaria Internacional, 1944 , la Convención Sanitaria Internacional para la Navegación Aérea, 1944 , que modifica la Convención Sanitaria Internacional para la Navegación Aérea del 12 de abril de 1933 , y el Protocolo para Prolongar la Convención Sanitaria Internacional para la Navegación Aérea, 1944 ; (g) concertar los arreglos necesarios con la Organización Sanitaria Panamericana y otras organizaciones regionales intergubernamentales de sanidad existentes, con la mira de llevar a efecto las disposiciones del Artículo 54 de la Constitución , arreglos que estarán sujetos a la aprobación de la Asamblea de la Salud ; (h) establecer relaciones eficaces y entrar en negociaciones con la mira de concertar acuerdos con otras organizaciones intergubernamentales como lo dispone el Artículo 70 de la Constitución ;

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946
(i) estudiar el problema de las relaciones con organizaciones internacionales no gubernamentales y con organizaciones nacionales , de acuerdo con el Artículo 71 de la Constitución , y concertar arreglos provisionales para consulta y cooperación con dichas organizaciones , según lo considere conveniente la Comisión Interina ; (j) emprender preparativos iniciales para revisar, unificar y fortalecer las convenciones sanitarias internacionales existentes ; (k) revisar los mecanismos existentes y emprender los trabajos preparatorios que sean necesarios en relación con:
(i) la próxima revisión decenal de "Las Listas Internacionales de Causas de Muerte" (inclusive las listas adoptadas según el Convenio Internacional de 1934 relativo a las Estadísticas de Causas de Muerte) ; y (ii) el establecimiento de Listas Internacionales de Causas de Morbosidad ;
(1) establecer un enlace eficaz con el Consejo Económico y Social y las comisiones de éste que se consideren convenientes, en particular la Comisión sobre Estupefacientes ; y (m) considerar todo problema urgente de la salud que le presente a su atención cualquier gobierno , asesorar técnicamente sobre tales problemas, llamar la atención de los gobiernos y organizaciones que estén capacitados para cooperar, sobre las necesidades urgentes en materia de salubridad , y tomar las medidas que se juzguen convenientes para coordinar la cooperación que los gobiernos y organizaciones decidan prestar. 3. La Comisión Interina puede establecer los comités que juzgue convenientes.
4. La Comisión Interina elegirá su propio Presidente y demás funcionarios , aprobará su propio reglamento interno , y consultará a las personas que sean necesarias para facilitar su labor.
5. La Comisión Interina nombrará un Secretario Ejecutivo quién :
(a) será su principal funcionario técnico y administrativo ; (b) será secretario ex-officio de la Comisión Interina y de todos los comités que ésta establezca ; (c) tendrá acceso directo a todas las administraciones nacionales de salubridad en la manera que sea aceptable a los gobiernos interesados ; y (d ) desempeñar las demás funciones y obligaciones que la Comisión Interina determine .
6. El Secretario Ejecutivo , sujeto a la autoridad general de la Comisión Interina, nombrará el personal técnico y administrativo que se requiera. Al hacer estos nombramientos tomará debidamente en cuenta los principios expuestos en el Artículo 35 de la Constitución . Tomará en consideración la conveniencia de nombrar al personal disponible de la Organización de Higiene de la Sociedad de las Naciones, del Office International d'Hygiène Publique, y la División de Salubridad de la Administración de Socorros y Rehabilitación de las Naciones Unidas. Podrá nombrar los funcionarios y especialistas

2369

2370

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
que pongan a su disposición los gobiernos . Mientras contrate y organice su personal , podrá aprovechar la ayuda técnica y administrativa que el Secretario General de las Naciones Unidas ponga a su disposición .
7. La Comisión Interina celebrará su primera sesión en Nueva York tan pronto sea nombrada y, en adelante, se reunirá con la frecuencia que sea necesario , pero no menos de una vez cada cuatro meses. En cada una de sus sesiones la Comisión Interina fijará el lugar de su sesión subsiguiente.
8. Los gastos de la Comisión Interina se cubrirán con los fondos que provean las Naciones Unidas, y para este fin la Comisión Interina concertará los arreglos necesarios con las autoridades competentes de las Naciones Unidas . En caso de que los fondos sean insuficientes , la Comisión Interina podrá aceptar adelantos de los gobiernos . Los adelantos podrán descontarse de las contribuciones de los gobiernos interesados en la Organización .
9. El Secretario Ejecutivo preparará y la Comisión Interina estudiará y aprobará los proyectos de presupuesto:
(a) para el período desde el establecimiento de la Comisión Interina hasta el 31 de diciembre de 1946 , y (b) para los períodos posteriores , según sea necesario. 10. La Comisión Interina someterá un informe de sus actividades a la Asamblea de la Salud en su primera sesión . 11. La Comisión Interina dejará de existir por resolución de la Asamblea de la Salud en su primera sesión , en cuya ocasión los bienes y archivos de la Comisión Interina y el personal de esta que se requiera, se traspasarán a la Organización. 12. Este Arreglo entrará en vigor para todos los signatarios en esta misma fecha.
EN FE DE LO CUAL los infrascritos representantes, habiendo sido debidamente autorizados para este fin, firman este Arreglo en los idiomas chino, español , francés, inglés y ruso , cuyos textos serán igualmente auténticos.
FIRMADO en la Ciudad de Nueva York el día veintidós de julio de 1946 .

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946
For Argentina: Pour l'Argentine:  :  : Por la Argentina:

2371



For Australia: Pour l'Australie:  :  ! Por Australia:
Subject to approval and acceptanel by Government ofcommonwealth of
Australia

For the Kingdom of Belgium: Pour le Royaume de Belgique:   :   : Por el Reino de Bélgica:
Sous réserve de reali ratifications
thead
For Bolivia: Pour la Bolivie:  ;  : Por Bolivia:
jmi r. Soleb

2372

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

For Brazil: Pour le Brésils



:

 :

Por el Brasil :

GeraturPaulaSong

For Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic: Pour le République Soviétique Socialiste de Bélorussie :
     Por la República Socialista Soviética Bielorrusa:

For Canada: Pour le Canada:
  Por el Canadá:

Swoon Morton Brock Chishah

For Chile: Pour le Chili:

:   For Chilo:

Julic Bustos 1 .

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946
For China: Pour la Chines
 : Sa Kita : Por la China :

2373

MR 

Shen,JK. WithinGuar
Kaming kr.

For Columbia: Pour la Colombier  :  ! Por Colombia:
tarks Thibe Aguin. e
For Costa Rica: Pour Costa-Rica:  3a Koorapiny: For Costa Rica:
Jarin Benamba

95347°--49- PT. III

2374

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT

For Cuba: Pour Cuba:
 : Sa Kyy: Por Cuba :

Ad. Referentium

Pecho quein

Vinnistamany

For Czechoslovakia: Pour la Tahécoslovaquie:
 : 3a TexoooakMD: For Checoslovaquia:

hot referendum 
reflaunty

For Denmark: Pour le Danemark:
 : 3a aoo: For Dinamarca:

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946
For the Dominican Republic: Pour la République Dominicaine:
  :    Por la República Dominicana:

2375

For Equador: Pour l'Equateur:
 :  : Per al Ecuador:

lumply Creolingly

For Egypt: Pour l'Egypter
 : 3a Erner: Por Egipto:

Dr. Allende ise

Taha

Elsage&

aar h

bey

Counsellor

yal Ro

Ms.Abaza eve

2376

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

For El Salvador: Pour le Salvador:

 :
 : Por El Salvador:
ArtstiderMo or cd h M

(ad ref. )

For Ethiopia: Pour l'Ethiopie:
 :
3a 3 morro: Por Etiopía:
Gs.Teessaanmnma

For France: Pour la France:
 :  : Por Francia:

Waristy

For Greece: Pour la Grèce:
 :  : Por Grecia:

Phreien Rapanan

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946

For Guatemala: Pour le Guatemala:
 : 38 TESTORxy: Por Guatemala:

atreferendum
G Grand

2377

For Haiti: Pour Hafti:
 : 88 Fax : For Haiti:

For Honduras: Pour le Honduras:
 : Sa roxxypao: For Honduras:

2378

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

For India: Pour l'Inde:

 :   Por la India:

In Lawem 44m.e1n.16

Phan maipor
These Signatures are appended in agreement with Histejesty's Representative of the exercise ofthe functions ofthe crown in its relating with the Indian Statis.

   

For Iran: Pour l'Iran:
 : Sa ax: Por Irán:

Ghaarome Ghani M.D.

H.Haferi

For Iraq: Four 1'Irak
17 tix te 3a pax: Por Irak:

s

Tupig The

de the dogang

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946
For Lebanon: Pour le Liban:
 : 3a Ikeax: Por El Libano:
Georges Haking
47

2379

FPoourrLilbeeLriibaesrias

 : Sa Ixepanot Por Liberia Jo: seph

Nagbi

Irgba,

Mund.

ival

ohns J

. M.

For the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg! Four le Grand Duché de Luxembourg:    :     : Por el Gran Dusado de Luxemburgo:
Sous réserve de ratification
Thepar

2380

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
For Mexico: Pour le Mexique:  : Sa. Moxonxy: Por México:
Managing .

For the Kingdom of the Netherlands: Pour le Royaume des Pays-Bast
   :
  : Por el Reino de Holanda:

adreferendin

1. aut mymay

For New Zealand: Pour la Nouvelle-26lande:
 : Sa Hobyn Seman Por Hueva Zelandia:
Ad referendum
TRREM

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946

For Nicaragua: Pour le Nicaragua:

Pasthetxth

3a Hukaparya ! Por Nicaragua:

and- referenduse

Rolericalant

2381

For the Kingdom of Norway: Pour le Royaume de Norvège:

  : 3a KopzeBoBo Hoperx: Por el Reino de Noruega:
Ad referendurn

4.

Th .

L a n s an g

For Panara: Pour le Panama :
  : Por Panamá:
ad referendum.

2382

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
For Paraguay: Pour le Paraguay:  :  : Por el Paraguay:
Angelaines

For Peru: Pour le Pérou,    :
 ! Por el Hart:

For the Pour la

RRéeppuubblliiqcueofdetshePPhhiliilpippipniense:s

:

 :

Por Filipinas:

traefidudeLeon

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946
For Poland: Pour la Pologne:
 : 8 Hoay: Por Polonia:
Edmayneyouare

2383

For Saudi Arabia: Pour l'Arabie Saoudites
   :
   Por Arabia Saudita:



ynthin a DiJahia Warry
D2 medhot Cheikh elarde

     

For Byrias Pour la Syries
 : Sa. Carpano! Por Siria:

2384

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
For Turkey: Pour la Turquies
 ,   Por Turquía:



For the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic: Pour la République Soviétique Socialiste d'Ukraine:          For la República Socialista Soviética Ucranian:
sheybizz
For the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics: Pour l'Union des Républiques Soviétiques Socialistes:       Core    Por la Unión de Repúblicas Sosialistas Soviétions:

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946
For the Union of South Africa: Pour l'Union Sud-Africaines   : 3.a IzostpaAHOKKÍ COXS: Por la Unión Sudafricana:
ad referendums
H.S. Gear.

2385

For the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: Pour le Royaume-Uni, de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nords      ! Per el Reino Unido de la Gran Bretaña :
MewilleD.Mackenzie
9.2 . Yates
For the United States of America : Pour les Etats-Tais d'Amérique,   : 8 CoENG HaH AMOYRKK: For los Estados Unidos de América:
Thamansaran Tarkt 11. Elior
Thank &Bardraw

2386

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. For Uruguay: Four l'Uruguay:  :  : Por el Uruguay:  jue Riirem barlyM. Barbero. un
For Venezuela: Four le Venezuela:  :  : Por Venezuela:
Nagelignin

For Yugoslavia: Pour la Yougoslavie:
 : Sa DrooBMD: Por Tugoslavia:

sa. Stampar

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946
For Afghanistan: Pour l'Afghanistan
 :  : Por Afganistán:

2387

For Albania: Pour L'Albanie:
TJ HELE:   : Por Albania :
Aves Jakover

For Austria: Pour l'Autriche :   : 8 ABOp : Por Austria : 7" Mannis Kaiser 
For Bulgaria: Pour la Bulgarie :  :  : Por Bulgaria :
P.D.P. Orahovats

2388

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. For Eire: Pour l'Eire:   : Por Irlanda:
Johned.Macbomack
For Finland: Pour la Finlande: 
:  : Por Finlandia:
Omo Turpeinen

For Hungary: Pour la Hongrie:  :  : For Hungría:
For Iceland: Pour l'Islande:   :   ! For Islandia:

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946
For Italy: Four l'Ital10:
  : Por Italia:

2389

For Portugal: Four le Fortugal :
 : For Portugel : Francinansaffanbausmene

95347° --49- -. III- 8

2390

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
For Rumania: Pour la Roumanie :
 : 3  : Por Rumania:

For Siem: Pour le Siam :

   : Por Siam:
Bunliang

Mo main Tamthai NNINEN T

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946
For Sweden : Pour la Suède :
  : Por Suecia :

2391

For Bvitzerland: Pour la Suisse :



:

3 mao : Por Suiza :

2.Laut.

2392

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT. For TransJordan: Pour la Transjordanie:
   :: 3a TpanoxopRED: For Trans jordania:
Dr. Ly . F.
But

For Tomen: Four le Yénen :



:

Sa leues :

Por Yemen:

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946
The foregoing is a true copy of Le texte qui précède est une the Arrangement concluded by copie exacte de l'Arrangement conthe Governments represented at clu par les Gouvernements repréthe International Health Confer- sentés à la Conférence Internaence, signed in New York, on tionale de la Santé, signé à New July 22, 1946 , in the Chinese, York, le 22 juillet 1946 , en langues English , French, Russian and anglaise, chinoise, espagnole, franSpanish languages, the original çaise et russe, dont l'original a of which is deposited in the été déposé dans les archives des Archives of the United Nations. Nations Unies .
For the Secretary-General : Pour le Secrétaire général :
Dr IVAN KERNO
Assistant Secretary- General for Legal Affairs . Sous-Secrétaire général pour les Affaires Juridiques.

2393

2394

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Note by the Department of State
The following is a romanization of the facsimile signatures . FOR ARGENTINA :
ALBERTO ZWANCK FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. H. TANGE FOR THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM :
Dr. M DE LAET. FOR BOLIVIA :
LUIS V. SOTELO . FOR BRAZIL :
GERALDO PAULA Souza FOR BYELORUSSIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC :
N EVSTAFIEV FOR CANADA :
BROOKE CLAXTON BROCK CHISHOLM FOR CHILE : JULIO BUSTOS A. FOR CHINA : SHEN, J. K. L. CHIN YUAN SZEMING SZE . FOR COLOMBIA: CARLOS URIBE AGUIRRE . FOR COSTA RICA : JAIME BENAVIDES . FOR CUBA: Dr PEDRO NOGUEIRA VICTOR SANTAMARINA FOR CZECHOSLOVAKIA : Dr JOSEF CANCIK FOR DENMARK : J. OERSKOV FOR THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC : Dr L. F. THOMEN FOR ECUADOR : R. NEVAREZ VASQUEZ FOR EGYPT : Dr. A. T. CHOUCHA TAHA ELSAYED NASR BEY M S. ABAZA FOR EL SALVADOR : ARISTIDES MOLL FOR ETHIOPIA : G. TESEMMA . FOR FRANCE : J PARISOT

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1948
FOR GREECE: Dr. PHOKION KOPANARIS
FOR GUATEMALA: G MORÁN JA MUÑOZ
FOR HAITI : RULX LEÓN
FOR HONDURAS : JUAN MANUEL FIALLOS
FOR INDIA: C. K. LAKSHMANAN C. MANI
FOR IRAN: GHASSEME GHANI M. D. H. HAFEZI
FOR IRAQ : S AL-ZAHAWI Dr IHSAN DOGRAMAJI .
FOR LEBANON : GEORGES HAKIM Dr A MAKHLOUF
FOR LIBERIA : JOSEPH NAGBE TOGBA, M. D. JOHN B WEST, M. D.
FOR THE GRAND DUCHY OF LUXEMBOURG : Dr. M DE LAET.
FOR MEXICO : MONDRAGÓN .
FOR THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS: C BERG. C BANNING. W. A. TIMMERMAN
FOR NEW ZEALAND : TR RITCHIE
FOR NICARAGUA: A SEVILLA Sacasa
FOR THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY: H. TH. SANDBERG
FOR PANAMA: J. J. VALLARINO .
FOR PARAGUAY : ANGEL R GINES
FOR PERU : CARLOS ENRIQUE PAZ SOLDÁN ALB . TORANZO .
FOR THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES : H LARA WALFRIDO DE LEON
FOR POLAND : EDWARD GRZEGORZEWSKI

2395

2396

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
FOR SAUDI ARABIA: DR YAHIA NASRI DR MEDHAT CHEIKH EL ARDH
FOR SYRIA : DR C. TREFI
FOR TURKEY: Z. N BARKER
FOR THE UKRAINIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC : LI MEDVED I I KALTCHENKO
FOR THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS : F. G. KROTKOV
FOR THE UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA : H. S. GEAR.
FOR THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND : MELVILLE D. MACKENZIE G. E. YATES
FOR THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: THOMAS PARRAN MARTHA M. ELIOT FRANK G BOUDREAU
FOR URUGUAY: José A. MORA R RIVERO CARLOS M. BARBEROUSSE
FOR VENEZUELA : A ARREAZA GUZMÁN
FOR YUGOSLAVIA: DR A. STAMPAR
FOR AFGHANISTAN :
FOR ALBANIA : T. JAKOVA
FOR AUSTRIA : DR MARIUS KAISER
FOR BULGARIA : DR D. P. ORAHOVATZ .
FOR EIRE : JOHN D. MACCORMACK.
FOR FINLAND : OSMO TURPEINEN
FOR HUNGARY :
FOR ICELAND :
FOR ITALY : GIOVANNI ALBERTO CANAPERIA
FOR PORTUGAL : FRANCISCO JOSE C CAMBOURNAC

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION--JULY 22, 1946
FOR RUMANIA :
FOR SIAM : BUNLIANG TAMTHAI
FOR SWEDEN :
FOR SWITZERLAND : DR J EUGSTER A. SAUTER.
FOR TRANSJORDAN : DR. D. P. TUTUNJI
FOR YEMEN :

2397

2398

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

October 7, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1562]

Agreement between the United States of America and Peru respecting a military aviation mission . Signed at Washington October 7, 1946; effective October 7, 1946.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOV. ERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUB . LIC OF PERU FOR ESTABLISHING A UNITED STATES ARMY AIR FORCES MISSION FOR THE PURPOSE OF INSTRUCTION OF THE PERSONNEL OF THE PERUVIAN AIR CORPS

ACUERDO ENTRE EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA Y EL GOBIERNO DE LA REPUBLICA DEL PERU PARA LA CONTRATACION DE UNA MISION DEL CUERPO AEREO DEL EJERCITO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS CON FINES DE INSTRUC . CION DEL PERSONAL DEL CUERPO AERONAUTICO DEL PERU

In conformity with the request De conformidad con la soliciof the Government of the Republic tud del Gobierno del Perú al of Peru to the Government of the Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de

United States of America, the América, el Presidente de los President of the United States of Estados Unidos de América ha

America has authorized the ap- autorizado el nombramiento de

pointment of officers and enlisted Oficiales y Personal Subalterno

men of the Army of the United del Ejército y la Armada de los States of America and of the Estados Unidos para constituir

United States Navy to constitute una Misión de Aviación Militar

a Military Aviation Mission to the en la República del Perú , de

Republic of Peru under the con- acuerdo con las condiciones esti-

ditions specified below:

puladas a continuación:

TITLE I

TITULO I

Purpose and Duration

Propósito y Duración

ARTICLE 1. The purpose of this ARTICULO 1. El objeto de esta Mission is to cooperate with the Misión es cooperar con el Ministro Minister of Aeronautics of Peru de Aeronáutica del Perú y con los and with the Officers of the Oficiales del Cuerpo Aeronáutico Peruvian Air Corps , with a view del Perú (C.A.P. ) con miras de to enhancing the efficiency of the aumentar la eficiencia del C.A.P. Peruvian Air Corps.

ARTICLE 2. This Mission shall ARTICULO 2. Esta Misión du-

continue for a period of four (4) rará cuatro (4 ) años desde la years from the date of the signing fecha de la firma de este acuerdo of this Agreement by the accred- por los representantes acreditados ited representatives of the Gov- del Gobierno de los Estados Uniernment of the United States of dos y del Gobierno del Peru , America and the Government of siempre que no sea terminado

Peru, unless previously terminated antes o prorrogado en la forma

61 STAT.] PERU-MILITARY AVIATION MISSION-OCT. 7, 1946

2399

or extended as hereinafter pro- que se establece más adelante.

vided. Any member of the Mis- Cualquier miembro de la Misión

sion may be recalled by the Gov- puede ser retirado por el Gobierno

ernment of the United States of de los Estados Unidos después de

America after the expiration of la expiración de dos años de servitwo years of service, in which cios , en cuyo caso otro miembro

case another member shall be será proporcionado para reempla-

furnished to replace him.

zarlo .

Extension of servARTICLE 3. If the Government ARTICULO 3. Si el Gobierno del ices of Mission.

of Peru should desire that the Perú deseara que los servicios de

services of the Mission be ex- la Misión fueren prorrogados más

tended beyond the stipulated pe- allá del período estipulado , hará riod, it shall make a written pro- una propuesta por escrito con este

posal to that effect six months objeto seis meses antes de la

before the expiration of this Agree- expiración de este Acuerdo . ment .

ARTICLE 4. This Agreement

ARTICULO 4.

Termination of Este Acuerdo agreement.

may be terminated before the puede ser terminado antes de la

expiration of the period of four expiración del período de cuatro years prescribed in Article 2 , or años, prescrito en el Artículo 2 , o before the expiration of the exten- antes de la expiración de la

sion authorized in Article 3, in prórroga autorizada en el Artículo

the following manner:

3 de la manera siguiente :

(a) By either of the Govern- (a) Por cualquiera de los dos

ments, subject to three months' Gobiernos , siempre que lo notifi-

written notice to the other Gov- que por escrito al otro Gobierno

ernment .

con tres meses de anticipación.

(b) By the recall of the entire (b) Por llamada de todo el per-

personnel of the Mission by the sonal de la Misión por el Gobierno Government of the United States de los Estados Unidos en razón de

of America in the public interest of interés público de los Estados the United States of America, Unidos, sin tener que cumplir con

without necessity of compliance la disposición del inciso (a) de este with provision (a) of this Article. Artículo .

ARTICLE 5. This Agreement is

ARTICULO 5.

Cancellation in case Este Acuerdo ofhostilities.

subject to cancellation upon the está sujeto a cancelación por initiative of either the Govern- iniciativa ya sea del Gobierno de ment of the United States of los Estados Unidos o del Gobierno America or the Government of del Perú en caso de que cualquiera

Peru in case either country be- de los dos países se vea envuelto comes involved in domestic or en una guerra interna o extranjera. foreign hostilities.

ARTICLE 6. The members of ARTICULO 6. Los miembros de this Mission are permitted and esta Misión están permitidos y
may be authorized to represent pueden ser autorizados a reprethe United States of America on sentar a los Estados Unidos de

Authority of members to represent U.S. ienlatoitnhgerto campialciittairesy
cooperation.

any commission or in any other América en cualquier comisión o capacity relating to military co- en cualquier capacidad que tenga

2400 44

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

operation for the defense of the relación con la cooperación militar hemisphere without prejudice to para la defensa hemisférica , sin this Agreement in conformity with perjuicio de este Acuerdo , conthe inter-American and interna- forme a los convenios interameri-

tional pacts which have been canos o internacionales vigentes y ratified by the Government of the ratificados por el Gobierno de los

United States of America and the Estados Unidos de América y el

Government of Peru.

Gobierno del Perú.

TITLE II

TITULO II

Composition and Personnel

Composición y Personal

ARTICLE 7. This Mission shall ARTICULO 7. Esta Misión con-

consist of members of the per- sistirá de miembros del personal

sonnel of any corps of the Army de cualquier Cuerpo del Ejército of the United States of America de los Estados Unidos de América

or of the United States Navy as o de la Marina de los Estados

may be requested by the Minister Unidos de América que puedan

of Aeronautics through his author- ser solicitados por el Ministro de

ized representative in Washington Aeronáutica por conducto de su

and agreed upon by the War and representante autorizado en Wa-

Navy Departments of the afore- shington y de acuerdo con los

mentioned Government.

Departamentos de Guerra y de

Marina de dicha Nación.

ARTICLE 8. This Mission may ARTICULO 8. Podrán formar be composed of such additional parte de esta Misión, el personal personnel of the Army of the adicional del Ejército de los EsUnited States of America or of the tados Unidos de América o de la United States Navy as the Chief Armada de los Estados Unidos de of Mission, with the approval of América que el Jefe de la Misión, the Minister of Aeronautics , con- con aprobación del Ministro de siders indispensable for the ac- Aeronáutica, considere indispencomplishment of his duties as sable para el desarrollo de sus Chief of Mission in Peru, provided actividades como Jefe de la Misión that such additional personnel en el Perú, sin que este personal shall not require any expenditures adicional obligue al Gobierno del by the Government of Peru and Perú a desembolso de dinero en shall be subject to all the require- ninguna forma, quedando este ments set forth herein with respect personal sujeto en todas las demás to the personnel assigned to the obligaciones, a las mismas que se Mission in accordance with the establecen para el personal que provisions of the preceding article. constituye la Misión conforme al
Artículo anterior .

TITLE III

TITULO III

Duties, Rank, and Precedence

Servicios, Grados y Precedencia

ARTICLE 9. The personnel of the ARTICULO 9. El personal de la Mission shall perform such duties Misión desempeñará los servicios as may be agreed upon between que puedan ser acordados entre el the Minister of Aeronautics of Ministro de Aeronáutica del Perú

61 STAT. ] PERU-MILITARY AVIATION MISSION-OCT. 7, 1946

2401

Peru and the Chief of the Mission . y el Jefe de la Misión . Todos All of these services shall be per- estos servicios se prestarán de conformed in accordance with the formidad con las leyes y reglamenlaws and regulations of the Gov- tos del Gobierno del Perú . ernment of Peru.

ARTICLE 10. The members of ARTICULO 10. Los miembros de

the Mission shall be responsible la Misión serán responsables sola-

solely to the Minister of Aeronau- mente ante el Ministro de Aero-

tics of Peru, through the Chief of náutica del Perú , por conducto del

the Mission .

Jefe de la Misión.

ARTICLE 11. Each member of ARTICULO 11. Cada miembro de

the Mission shall serve on the Mis- la Misión desempeñará sus funsion with the rank he holds in the ciones en la Misión con la clase

United States Army or Navy and militar que tiene en el Ejército o shall wear the uniforms of his rank en la Marina de los Estados Unidos

in the United States Army or y llevará el uniforme de su clase en

Navy, but shall have precedence dicho Ejército o Marina, pero ten-

over all Peruvian Officers of the drá precedencia sobre todos los

same rank.

Oficiales peruanos de la misma

clase .

ARTICLE 12. Each member of ARTICULO 12. Cada miembro de the Mission shall be entitled to all la Misión tendrá derecho a todos

Benefits, etc.

benefits or privileges which the los beneficios y privilegios que los

Regulations of the Peruvian Air Reglamentos del Cuerpo Aeronáu-

Corps provide for Peruvian Offi- tico del Perú establecen para los

cers and enlisted personnel with Oficiales peruanos y para el per-

regard to rank and position..

sonal subalterno, en lo que respecta al grado y a la función.

ARTICLE 13. The personnel of ARTICULO 13. El personal de

the Mission shall be governed by la Misión estará regido por los

the disciplinary regulations of the Reglamentos de disciplina del

United States Army or Navy.

Ejército o de la Armada de los

Estados Unidos.

Disciplinary regula. tions.

TITLE IV

TITULO IV

Compensation and Perquisites

Retribución y Goces

ARTICLE 14. The Members of ARTICULO 14. Los miembros de

the Mission shall receive from the la Misión recibirán del Gobierno

Government of Peru a net monthly del Perú una retribución neta

compensation computed in Peru- mensual computada en moneda vian currency. This compensa- corriente de la República del Perú

tion shall be paid monthly in para cada miembro . Esta retri-

Peruvian national currency, due bución será abonada mensual-

and payable on the last day of mente, debida y pagadera el últi-

each month . The scale of pay, mo día de cada mes, en moneda

allowances, and subsistence of nacional peruana. La escala de

each member of the Mission shall haberes, emolumentos y gratifica-

be equal to that established in the ciones de cada miembro de la

2402

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Tax exemption.

Peruvian Air Force for personnel Misión será igual a la establecida

of corresponding rank and posi- dentro del Cuerpo Aeronáutico

tion.

del Perú para los grados o cargos

correspondientes. Compensation shall not be sub- Esta retribución no estará sujeta

ject to any tax, now or hereafter a ningún impuesto , ahora en in effect , of the Government of vigencia o que se cree en el futuro, Peru or any of its political or del Gobierno del Perú o de ninadministrative subdivisions . guna de sus dependencias políticas Should there, however, at present y administrativas. Sin embargo,

or while this Agreement is in si al presente o durante la vigencia

effect, be any taxes that might de este Acuerdo existiesen algunos

affect this compensation , such que pudieran afectar esta retri-

taxes shall be paid by the Min- bución, dichos impuestos serán

istry of Aeronautics in order to pagados por el Ministerio de Aero-

comply with the provisions of this náutica , con el objeto de cumplir

Article that the compensation con la disposición de este Artículo ,

agreed upon shall be net.

que establece que los salarios convenidos serán netos .

ARTICLE 15. The compensation ARTICULO 15. La retribución ,

agreed upon in the preceding en el Artículo precedente conArticle shall begin on the date of venida, comenzará a regir desde departure from the United States la fecha de la salida de los Estados of America of each member of the Unidos de cada miembro de la

Mission, and shall continue after Misión y continuará después de the termination of his service with la terminación de sus servicios

the Mission during his return trip con la Misión durante el viaje de

to the United States of America regreso a los Estados Unidos ; y

and thereafter for the period of durante el período de cualquier

any accumulated leave to which licencia acumulada a que el miem-

he is entitled.

bro tenga derecho .

ARTICLE 16. The compensation ARTICULO 16. La retribución

due for the period of the return debida por el período del viaje de

trip and accumulated leave shall regreso y licencia acumulada, debe

be paid to a detached member of ser pagada a un miembro cesante

the Mission before his departure antes de su partida del Perú, y tal

from Peru, and such payment shall pago debe ser calculado por un

be computed for travel by the viaje por la ruta más corta

shortest usually traveled route, usualmente empleada , indepen-

regardless of the route and method dientemente de la ruta y método

of travel used by the said detached de viaje usados por dicho miembro

member of the Mission .

cesante de la Misión.

Travel accommodations.

ARTICLE 17. Each member of ARTICULO 17. A cada miembro the Mission and each member of de la Misión y a cada miembro de his family shall be provided by the su familia el Gobierno del Perú

Government of Peru with first- le proporcionará pasajes de priclass accommodations for travel mera clase para el viaje requerido y required and performed under efectuado de conformidad con este

this Agreement, by the shortest Acuerdo, por la ruta más corta

61 STAT. ] PERU- MILITARY AVIATION MISSION-OCT. 7, 1946

2403

usually traveled route between a usualmente empleada entre un

port in the United States of puerto de los Estados Unidos y su

America and his official residence residencia oficial en el Perú, tanto

in Peru , both for the outward and para el viaje de ida como para el

for the return voyage.

viaje de regreso.

The expenses of shipment of Los gastos de transporte de los

Shipment of household effects, etc.

the household effects, baggage and efectos domésticos , equipaje y automobile of each member of the automóvil de cada miembro de la

Mission between a port in the Misión entre un puerto de los

United States of America and his Estados Unidos y su residencia official residence in Peru shall oficial en el Perú, serán también

also be paid by the Government of por cuenta del Gobierno del Peru ; this shall include all neces- Perú ; éstos deberán incluir todos sary expenses incident to unload- los gastos necesarios relacionados

ing from the steamer upon arrival con la descarga de a bordo del in Peru, cartage between the ship vapor a su llegada al Perú, transand the residence in Peru , and porte entre el vapor y la resi-

packing and loading on board the dencia en el Perú y embalaje steamer upon departure from Peru. y carga a bordo del vapor a su
partida del Perú. The transportation of such El transporte de estos efectos

household effects, baggage and domésticos, equipaje y automóvil automobile shall be made in a deberá ser hecho en un solo

single shipment and all subsequent embarque y todos los embarques shipments shall be at the expense sucesivos serán a costo de los

of the respective members of the respectivos miembros de la Misión, Mission except when necessitated exceptuando casos derivados de

by circumstances beyond their circunstancias ajenas a su voluncontrol. Payment by the Gov- tad. El pago por el Gobierno

ernment of Peru of the expenses del Perú de los gastos para el trans-

for the transportation of the porte de las familias, de los efectos

families , household effects , bag- domésticos, de los equipajes y de

gage and automobiles of personnel los automóviles del personal que

who may join the Mission for pueda unirse a la Misión para temporary service at the request servicio temporal a solicitud del of the Minister of Aeronautics Ministro de Aeronáutica no será

shall not be at the expense of the por cuenta del Gobierno del Perú. Peruvian Government.

Exemptions from ARTICLE 18. The Government ARTICULO 18. El Gobierno del customs duties.
of Peru shall allot in the budget of Perú consignará en el Presupuesto

the Ministry of Aeronautics an del Ministerio de Aeronáutica una

amount adequate to pay customs suma adecuada para pagar dere-

duties on articles, including those chos de Aduana por aquellos

mentioned in Article 17 of this artículos , incluyendo los citados

Agreement, imported by members en el Artículo 17 de este Acuerdo ,

of the Mission, who shall be que sean importados por los miem-

granted the scale of exemptions bros de la Misión , a quienes se

allowed the diplomatic corps ac- concederán las exenciones extencredited to the Government of didas al Cuerpo Diplomático

2404

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Peru, in accordance with following classification:

the acreditado ante el Gobierno del Perú, de acuerdo con las clasificaciones siguientes :

The Chief of the Mission, in the category of Resident Minister ,
The Senior Officers, in the category of Chargé d'Affaires ,

El Jefe de la Misión , con categoría de Ministro residente ;
Los Oficiales Superiores, con categoría de Encargados de Negocios ;

The Junior Officers (Captain and Lieutenants) , in the category of Counsellors,
The Enlisted Personnel, in the category of Second Secretary .

Los Oficiales Subalternos (de Capitanes a Tenientes) , con categoría de Consejeros ;
Los Miembros del Personal Subalterno , con categoría de Segundos Secretarios.

All duties and taxes for the Todos los derechos e impuestos

importation of articles which ex- por importación de artículos , que

ceed the exemption granted shall excedan de la exención concedida

be paid by the member of the serán abonados particularmente Mission concerned and not by the por el miembro de la Misión que

Government of Peru .

sea del caso y no por el Gobierno del Perú .

Sale of household goods, etc.
Ante, p. 2400.

ARTICLE 19. If any member ARTICULO 19. Si cualquier serving on the Mission pursuant miembro que sirviere en la Misión to Article 7 of the present Agree- de conformidad con el presente

ment should, at the termination Acuerdo deseara, al término de su

of his service with the Mission tiempo de servicios en la Misión

and prior to his return to the y antes de regresar a los Estados

United States of America, desire Unidos, vender en el mercado del

to sell in the Peruvian market Perú sus efectos domésticos, equi-

Ante, p. 2402.

his household effects, baggage, paje y automóvil de uso personal and personal automobile which que hayan sido importados libres were imported free of duty and de derechos, y cuyo transporte ha for which transportation was paid sido abonado por el Gobierno by the Government of Peru in del Perú conforme a lo establecido accordance with the provisions en el Articulo 17 de este Acuerdo , of Article 17 of this Agreement, se obligará a dar preferencia al he shall be required to give the Gobierno del Perú en la compra Government of Peru priority in de dichos artículos, descontando the purchase of said articles, dis- del precio de venta el valor del counting from the sale price the transporte y de las exenciones. value of transportation and customs duties.
For such a sale, the Chief of Para tal venta se pondrán de the Mission and the authorized acuerdo el Jefe de la Misión con

representative of the Minister of el representante autorizado del Aeronautics shall confer, and in Ministro de Aeronáutica, y en case the prices of the articles are caso de no ser conveniente el

not satisfactory to the Govern- precio de los artículos , para el

61 STAT. ] PERU-MILITARY AVIATION MISSION--OCT. 7, 1946

2405

ment of Peru, the sale or return Gobierno del Perú, se autorizará to the United States of America su venta o su regreso a los Estados

shall be authorized . In the latter Unidos . En este último caso rige

case, the first paragraph of Article lo indicado en el primer párrafo 17 of this Agreement shall be del Artículo 17 de este Convenio.

Ante, p. 2402.

applicable . Return trip ex-
ARTICLE 20. If the services of ARTICULO 20. Si los servicios de penses of members any member of the Mission should cualquier miembro de la Misión syeravrsin, getcl.ess than 2

be terminated by the Govern- fueren terminados por el Gobierno ment of the United States of de los Estados Unidos, excep-

America, except as established in tuando lo estipulado en las dispothe provisions of Article 5 , before siciones del Artículo 5, antes de la the completion of two years of terminación de dos años de serviservice, the provisions of Article cios, las disposiciones del Artículo 17 shall not apply to the return 17, no se aplicarán para el viaje trip . If the services of any mem- de regreso . Si los servicios de ber of the Mission should termi- cualquier miembro de la Misión nate before the completion of two terminaren antes de completar years' service by reason of termi- dos años de servicios por razón de nation of the Mission or for terminación de la Misión o por reasons contemplated in Article 5, los motivos contemplados en el each member shall receive from Articulo 5, cada miembro recibirá the Government of Peru compen- del Gobierno del Perú las retribusation for the return trip expenses ciones en materia de gastos de and compensation for vacations viaje de regreso y compensación in the proportion resulting be- por vacaciones en la proporción tween the effective period of que resulte entre el período efecservices rendered and the normal tivo de servicios prestados y el time of two years ' service. How- tiempo normal de 2 años de ever, if the Government of the servicios . Pero si el Gobierno de United States of America should los Estados Unidos retira a cual-

Ante, p. 2399. Ante, p. 2402.
Ante, p. 2399.

recall any member for breach of quier miembro por faltas come-

discipline, the cost of the return tidas contra la disciplina , el costo

trip to the United States of del viaje de regreso a los Estados

America of such a member, his Unidos de este miembro , de su

family, household effects, baggage familia, efectos domésticos , equi-

or automobile shall not be borne paje y automóvil, no será pagado

by the Government of Peru .

por el Gobierno del Perú.

ARTICLE 21. Compensation and ARTICULO 21. La compensación

payments for transportation and y pagos por gastos de transporte

Compensation for transportation and traveling expenses.

traveling expenses while on duty y de viaje mientras se preste within the territory of the Repub- servicios dentro del territorio de

lic of Peru on official business of the la República del Perú, en comi-

Government of Peru shall be pro- siones oficiales del Gobierno del

vided by the Ministry of Aero- Perú será proporcionada por el nautics in accordance with the Ministerio de Aeronáutica de

provisions of Article 12 of Title acuerdo con las disposiciones del

III of this Agreement.

Artículo 12 del Título III de este

95347° -49 PT. III-

Acuerdo .

Ante, p. 2401 .

2406

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Automobile for

Chief of Mission .

ARTICLE 22. The Government ARTICULO 22 El Gobierno del

of Peru shall provide the Chief of Perú proporcionará al Jefe de la the Mission with a suitable auto- Misión un automóvil con chauf-

mobile with chauffeur for use on feur, para uso oficial . Transporte
timotor transporter official business . Suitable motor adecuado en automóvil con chaufuse of members.
transportation with chauffeur, and feur, y cuando sea necesario una

when necessary a launch properly lancha convenientemente equipaequipped, shall on call be made da, serán provistos, a pedido , por available by the Government of el Gobierno del Perú para el uso

Peru for use of the members of the de los miembros de la Misión para

Flight tion.

Mission for the conduct of the el cumplimiento de las funciones

official business of the Mission .

oficiales de la misma.

authoriza- ARTICLE 23. The Government ARTICULO 23. El Gobierno del

of Peru shall grant to the person- Perú concederá al personal de la nel of the Mission blanket author- Misión, autorización general para

ization to make flights in Peru in hacer vuelos en el Perú , en aviones United States aircraft or in Peru- de los Estados Unidos o en aviones vian aircraft which shall be made peruanos que se hayan puesto a su

available, as necessary in the con- disposición, para el desempeño duct of the official business of the necesario de las funciones oficiales

Mission, as well as such periodic de la Misión , y también para los flights as may be required to main- vuelos periódicos que sean requetain their proficiency as aviators . ridos para mantener su habilidad No liability shall be incurred by como aviadores . No incurrirá en any member of the Mission or by ninguna responsabilidad ningún the Government of the United miembro de la Misión ni el Go-

States of America for damage to bierno de los Estados Unidos por

property or equipment or for in- razón de daños a la propiedad o al

jury or death to others as the material o por lesiones o muertes

result of any accident in which a de otras personas como resultado

member of the Mission may be de cualquier accidente en que un

involved while engaged in flights miembro de la Misión esté en-

in accordance with the provisions vuelto mientras realice estos vuelos

of this Agreement.

de acuerdo con disposiciones de

este Acuerdo.

Reciprocally, the Government En forma recíproca el Gobierno

of the United States of America de los Estados Unidos puede promay grant blanket flight authori- porcionar autorización general de

zation to any member of the vuelo a cualquier miembro del Peruvian Air Force to make flights Cuerpo Aeronáutico del Perú para

within the territory of Peru as a efectuar vuelos como pasajero , passenger in any United States dentro del territorio de la Repú-

Army Air Force plane which has blica del Perú, en cualquier avión been made available to the Mis- del Ejército Americano que se sion for the performance of its haya puesto a órdenes de la

duties as defined in this Agree- Misión para el desempeño de las

ment.

funciones de ésta , según el pre-

sente Acuerdo .

61 STAT. ] PERU-MILITARY AVIATION MISSION--OCT. 7, 1946

2407

ARTICLE 24. The Government of ARTICULO 24. El Gobierno del inOgfffiacceilistpiaescef, orpaarikr-
planes, etc. Peru shall provide suitable office Perú proporcionará local para

space and adequate facilities for oficinas y facilidades adecuadas

the Mission , including suitable para la Misión, así como facili-

facilities for parking and storage dades de estacionamiento y al-

for the airplanes assigned to the macenamiento para el o los aviones

Mission .

asignados a la Misión.

ARTICLE 25. If any member of

ARTICULO

25.

Si

cualquier

remTraainnssporitnatciaosne

of of

death .

the Mission or any member of his miembro de la Misión o cualquier

family should die in Peru , the miembro de su familia falleciese

Government of Peru shall have en el Perú, el Gobierno del Perú

the body transported to such place hará que los restos sean trans-

in the United States of America portados hasta el lugar de los

as the surviving members of the Estados Unidos determinado por family may decide, but the cost los miembros sobrevivientes de

to the Government of Peru shall la familia pero el costo para el

not exceed the cost of transporting Gobierno del Perú no excederá del the remains from the place of costo del transporte de los restos decease to the City of New York. del lugar del fallecimiento a la Should the deceased be a member ciudad de Nueva York. Si el

of the Mission , his services with fallecido es un miembro de la
the Mission shall be considered Misión, sus servicios con la Misión to have terminated fifteen ( 15 ) deben ser considerados como que days after his death . Return han terminado quince (15) días tioRnetfuorrnfamtiralnys. porta-

transportation to the City of después de su muerte. El trans-

New York for the family of the porte de regreso a la ciudad de

deceased member and for their Nueva York para la familia del

household effects, baggage and miembro fallecido y para sus

automobile shall be provided as prescribed in Article 17. All
compensation due the deceased member, including salary for the

efectos domésticos , equipaje y automóvil , será provisto como se
prescribe en el Artículo 17. Toda retribución debida al miembro

Ante, p. 2402.
Compensation due deceased member.

fifteen (15 ) days following his fallecido, incluyendo el sueldo por death, and reimbursement due los quince ( 15 ) días subsiguientes the deceased member for expenses a su muerte y reembolso adeudado and transportation on trips made al miembro fallecido por gastos y on official business of the Govern- transporte en viajes realizados en ment of Peru, shall be paid to the asuntos oficiales del Gobierno del widow of the deceased member Perú, serán pagados a la viuda del or to any other person who may miembro fallecido o a cualquiera have been designated in writing otra persona que pueda haber sido by the deceased while he was designada por escrito por el falleserving under the terms of this cido mientras estaba sirviendo en Agreement ; but the widow or conformidad con los términos de

other person shall not be com- este Acuerdo ; pero la viuda o la pensated for accrued leave due otra persona no será compensada but not taken by the deceased . por la licencia acumulada a que All compensations due the widow tenía derecho el fallecido pero no or other persons designated by usada por él . Todas las com-

the deceased under the provisions pensaciones debidas a la viuda o

2408

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

of this Article, shall be paid a la otra persona designada por el

before the departure of the widow fallecido, según las disposiciones

or such other person from Peru de este Artículo , serán pagadas

and within fifteen ( 15 ) days after antes de la partida de dicha viuda

the death of the member.

o dicha persona del Perú y dentro

de quince (15 ) días después del fallecimiento del miembro .

:

TITLE V

TITULO V

Services of personnel of other foreign

Requisites and Conditions ARTICLE 26. So long as this

Requisitos y Condiciones ARTICULO 26. Mientras este

gtioovne.rnments, restric- Agreement, or any extension there- Acuerdo , o cualquiera prórroga de

of, is in effect, the Government of él, esté en vigencia, el Gobierno

Peru shall not engage the services del Perú no empleará los servicios

of any personnel of any other for- de ningún personal de ningún otro

eign government for duties of any Gobierno extranjero para servicios

nature connected with the Peru- de cualquiera naturaleza relacio-

vian Air Force, except by mutual nados con el Cuerpo Aeronáutico

agreement between the Govern- del Perú , excepto por mutuo conment of the United States of venio entre el Gobierno de los

Secrecy ment.

require-

America and the Government of Estados Unidos de América y el

Peru .

Gobierno del Perú .

ARTICLE 27. Each member of ARTICULO 27. Cada miembro de

the Mission shall agree not to la Misión convendrá en no divul-

divulge or in any way disclose to gar o por cualquier medio revelar

any foreign government or to any a cualquier Gobierno extranjero o person whatsoever any secret or a cualquiera persona cualquier confidential matter of which he secreto o asunto confidencial del

may become cognizant in his cual pueda tener conocimiento en capacity as a member of the Mis- su capacidad de miembro de la sion. This requirement shall con- Misión . Este requisito continuará tinue in force after the termina- en vigencia después de la termination of service with the Mission ción de los servicios con la Misión

"Family". Annual leave.

and after the expiration or can- y después de la expiración o can-

cellation of this Agreement or any celación de este Acuerdo o cual-

extension thereof.

quiera prórroga de él.

ARTICLE 28. Throughout this ARTICULO 28. En todo este

Agreement the term "family" is Acuerdo el término "familia" limited to mean wife and de- estará restringido a significar esposa

pendent children .

e hijos dependientes.

ARTICLE 29. Each member of ARTICULO 29. Cada miembro the Mission shall be entitled to de la Misión tendrá derecho anualone month's annual leave with mente a un mes de licencia con

pay, or to a proportional part goce de sueldo , o a una parte thereof with pay for any fractional proporcional de dicha licencia con part of a year. Unused portions sueldo por cualquier fracción de of said leave shall not be cumula- un año . Las partes de dicha tive from year to year during licencia que no se usaren no

61 STAT. ] PERU- MILITARY AVIATION MISSION- OCT. 7, 1946

2409

service as a member of the Mis- podrán acumularse de año en

sion.

año mientras la persona preste

servicio como miembro de la

Misión .

The leave specified in the pre- La licencia que se estipula en ceding paragraph may be spent in el párrafo anterior podrá dis-

the Republic of Peru, in the United frutarse en la República del Perú, States of America, or in other en los Estados Unidos de América

countries, but the expense of o en otros países, pero los gastos

travel and transportation not de viaje y de transporte que no otherwise provided for in this sean abonables de acuerdo con las

Agreement shall be borne by the disposiciones de este Acuerdo cor-

member of the Mission taking rerán por cuenta del miembro de

such leave. All travel timeshall la Misión que disfrute la licencia.

count as leave and shall not be in Todo el tiempo que se emplee en

addition to the time authorized viajar se contará como parte de la

in the preceding paragraph.

licencia, y no se añadirá al tiempo

que se autoriza en el párrafo

precendente .

ARTICLE 30. The Government ARTICULO 30. El Gobierno del of Peru agrees to grant the leave Perú conviene en conceder la specified in Article 29 upon receipt licencia especificada en el Artículo of written application, approved 29 al recibir la solicitud escrita by the Chief of the Mission with y aprobada por el Jefe de la Misión due consideration for the conven- con la debida consideración por la ience of the Government of Peru. conveniencia del Gobierno del
Perú.

ARTICLE 31. Members of the ARTICULO 31. Los miembros de Termination ofservices of replaced mem-
Mission that may be replaced la Misión que sean reemplazados bers.

shall terminate their services on sólo podrán cesar en sus funciones

the Mission only upon the arrival en la Misión a la llegada de los

of their replacements , except when reemplazantes, exceptuando los

otherwise mutually agreed upon casos en que sea convenido de otra

in advance by the respective manera y de antemano por los

Governments .

Gobiernos respectivos.

Medical attention. ARTICLE 32. The Government ARTICULO 32. El Gobierno del

of Peru shall provide suitable Perú proporcionará a los miembros

medical attention to members of de la Misión y de sus familias la the Mission and their families . atención médica apropiada .

In case a member of the Mis- En caso de que un miembro de

sion becomes ill or suffers injury, la Misión se enferme o sufra lesión , he may be attended by medical podrá ser atendido por las autori-

authorities of the Peruvian Air dades sanitarias del Cuerpo Aero-

Force who shall determine , by náutico del Perú, quienes determutual agreement with the Chief minarán de común acuerdo con el

of the Mission, the need for hospi- Jefe de la Misión , la necesidad de

talization and the hospital where su hospitalización y el nosocomio

he will be hospitalized.

en el cual será internado.

2410

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

All expenses incurred as the re- Todos los gastos en que se insult of such illness or injury while curra. como resultado de esta

Ante, p. 2400.

the patient is a permanent mem- enfermedad o lesión , siempre que ber of the Mission in Peru as pre- el paciente sea un miembro per-

scribed in Article 7 , shall be paid manente de la Misión en el Perú by the Government of Peru . If comprendido dentro de aquéllos

the hospitalized member is a com- especificados en el Artículo 7 , missioned officer he shall pay his serán pagados por el Gobierno del

cost of subsistence, but if he is an Perú. En caso de que el miembro

enlisted man, the cost of sub- hospitalizado sea un Oficial comi-

sistence will be paid by the Gov- sionado , él mismo pagará sus

ernment of Peru.

gastos de subsistencia ; en caso

de que sea un subalterno , los

gastos de subsistencia serán pagados por el Gobierno del Perú. Families shall enjoy the same Las familias gozarán de los

privileges agreed upon in this mismos privilegios convenidos en Article for members of the Mission, este Artículo para los miembros

except that a member of the Mis- de la Misión , exceptuando que un

sion shall in all cases pay the cost miembro de la Misión pagará en of subsistence incident to hos- todos los casos los gastos de sub-

pitalization of a member of his sistencia relacionados con la hos-

Ante, p. 2401.

family, except as may be provided pitalización de un miembro de su

under Article 12 .

familia, con excepción de lo que

se ha dispuesto en el Artículo 12.

Replacement in case

of disability.

ARTICLE 33. Any member of the ARTICULO 33. Cualquier miem-

Mission unable to discharge his bro de la Misión inhabilitado para

duties with the Mission by reason desempeñar sus servicios con la

of prolonged physical disability Misión por razón de incapacidad

shall be replaced ; however, the física prolongada antes de cumplir

expenses of his return trip prior dos años de servicio será reempla-

to the completion of two years of zado , corriendo los gastos de su service with the Mission shall be traslado por cuenta del Gobierno

borne by the Government of the de los Estados Unidos. United States of America.

TITLE VI

TITULO VI

Common and Individual Obligations of the Members
of the Mission

Obligaciones comunes e individuales de los Miembros de la Misión

ARTICLE 34. The Mission as an ARTICULO 34. La Misión como
organized entity directed by its organismo conjunto, dirigido por Chief is under obligation to inform el Jefe de ella , está en la obligación and advise the Peruvian Govern- de proponer al Gobierno Peruano ment through the Minister of por intermedio del Ministro de Aeronautics , the methods which Aeronáutica, las medidas que crea it believes necessary to adopt in necesario adoptar para organizar

61 STAT. ] PERU-MILITARY AVIATION MISSION-OCT. 7, 1946

2411

order to organize and elevate to y elevar al más alto grado de

the highest degree of efficiency the eficiencia el poderío bélico del

fighting forces of the Peruvian Air Cuerpo Aeronáutico del Perú , en

Corps, in keeping with the poten- conformidad con la capacidad

tial capacity of the Republic of potencial de la República del Perú . Peru.

ARTICLE 35. Each member the Mission in his capacity advisor in the department

of ARTICULO 35. Cada miembro de as la Misión dentro de su categoría to de Asesor en las Dependencias a

Proposals for instruction, organizatmieonn,tettco., owfhiDcehparats--
signed .

which he has been assigned , in las que haya sido asignado , conaccordance with Article 9 , shall forme lo dispone el Artículo 9 ,

Ante, p. 2400.

be required to propose the most estará en la obligación de pro-

expedient means for planning the poner las medidas más expeditas instruction, organization and para planear la instrucción, la

functioning of the Department organización y el funcionamiento

to which he has been assigned. de la Dependencia a la cual haya These proposals may be submitted sido asignado. Estas proposi-

directly to the Chief of the De- ciones podrán ser hechas directapartment or to the Peruvian mente al Jefe de la Dependencia

officer to whom the Mission mem- o al Oficial peruano al cual esté ber is assigned for duty without asesorando , sin perjuicio de hacerlo necessity of transmitting such también directamente por interproposals through the Chief of medio del Jefe de la Misión . the Mission .
ARTICLE 36. Each member of ARTICULO 36. Cada miembro

the Mission shall be capable of de la Misión será capaz de concebir
conceiving and producing plans y producir planes de organización, of organization, instruction , etc. de instrucción y similares , para el for the Peruvian Air Forces in Cuerpo Aeronáutico del Perú en
Language require. his respective specialty . It will su respectiva especialidad . No ment.
not be an indispensable requisite será requisito indispensable el
to read, speak, or understand saber leer, hablar , o comprender
Spanish, but each Mission mem- el idioma castellano , pero sí será ber shall be expected to under- capaz de comprender dicho

stand that language within a short idioma al poco tiempo de su time following his arrival in Peru. permanencia en el Perú .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the un- EN TESTIMONIO DE LO CUAL, los

dersigned, Dean Acheson , Acting infrascritos , Dean Acheson , SecreSecretary of State of the United tario de Estado Interino de los

States of America , and Jorge Estados Unidos de América, y Prado , Ambassador Extraordinary Jorge Prado , Embajador Extraand Plenipotentiary of the Repub- ordinario y Plenipotenciario del lic of Peru to the United States Perú en los Estados Unidos de of America, duly authorized there- América , debidamente autorizados to, have signed this Agreement in para ello , firman este Acuerdo en

duplicate in the English and duplicado , en los idiomas inglés e

2412

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
Spanish languages , at Washing- castellano, en Washington , hoy ton, this seventh day of October, día siete de octubre mil noveone thousand nine hundred and cientos cuarenta y seis. forty-six .
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: POR EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA : DEAN ACHESON
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU: POR EL GOBIERNO DE LA REPUBLICA DEL PERU: JORGE PRADO

61 STAT. ]

COLOMBIA- NAVAL MISSION- OCT. 14, 1946

2413

Agreement between the United States of America and Colombia respecting a naval mission. Signed at Washington October 14, 1946; effective October 14, 1946.

October 14, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1563]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUB. LIC OF COLOMBIA

ACUERDO ENTRE EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMÉRICA Y EL GOBIERNO DE LA REPÚBLICA DE COLOMBIA

In conformity with the request De conformidad con la solicitud

made by the Ambassador of the hecha por el Embajador de la ReRepublic of Colombia in Washing- pública de Colombia en Washington to the Secretary of State, the ton al Secretario de Estado , el President of the United States of Presidente de los Estados Unidos

America, by virtue of the au- de América, en virtud de la autorithority conferred by the Act of dad conferídale por la Ley del Congress of May 19 , 1926 , entitled Congreso del 19 de mayo de 1926 , "An Act To authorize the Presi- titulada "Ley para Autorizar al

dent to detail officers and enlisted Presidente a destinar oficiales y men of the United States Army, personal subalterno del Ejército , Navy, and Marine Corps to assist la Armada y el Cuerpo de Infanthe governments of the Latin- tería de Marina de los Estados

American Republics in military Unidos de América a cooperar con
and naval matters," as amended los gobiernos de las Repúblicas by the Act of May 14, 1935 , to in- Latino-americanas en asuntos

clude the Philippine Islands , has militares y navales " , según fué

authorized the appointment of enmendada por Ley del 14 de

officers and enlisted men to con- mayo de 1935 para incluir a las

stitute a Naval Mission to the Islas Filipinas , ha autorizado el

Republic of Colombia under the nombramiento de oficiales y per-

conditions specified below:

sonal subalterno para constituir

una Misión Naval en la República

44 Stat. 565; 49 Stat. 218.
34 U.S. O. § 441a.

de Colombia, de acuerdo con las

TITLE I

condiciones estipuladas a continuación:
TÍTULO I

Purpose and Duration

Propósito y Duración

ARTICLE 1. The purpose of this ARTÍCULO 1. El objeto de esta Naval Mission is to cooperate in Misión Naval es prestar coopera-

an advisory capacity with the Di- ción de carácter consultivo al Director General and the officers of rector General de Marina y a los

the Colombian Navy, wherever oficiales de la Armada de Colomdesired in the Republic of Colom- bia, en cualquier lugar de la Rebia by the Ministry of War, with pública de Colombia que designare

2414

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

a view to enhancing the efficiency el Ministerio de Guerra, y con

of the Colombian Navy.

miras a aumentar la eficiencia de

la Armada de Colombia.

ARTICLE 2. This Mission shall ARTÍCULO 2. Esta Misión dura-

continue for a period of four years rá cuatro años desde la fecha de la

from the date of the signing of firma de este Acuerdo por los this agreement by the accredited representantes acreditados del Gorepresentatives of the Government bierno de los Estados Unidos de

of the United States of America América y del Gobierno de la

and the Government of the Repub- República de Colombia , siempre lic of Colombia unless sooner ter- que éste no sea terminado antes o minated or extended as herein- extendido en la forma que se after provided. Any member of establece más adelante. Cual-

the Mission may be recalled by quier miembro de la Misión puede

the Government of the United ser retirado por el Gobierno de los

States of America after the expira- Estados Unidos de América des-

tion of two years ' service, in which pués de la expiración de dos años

case another member will be fur- de servicios , en cuyo caso otro

nished in replacement, after mu- miembro será proporcionado para

Extension of services of Mission.

tual agreement between the two Governments .
ARTICLE 3. If the Government

reemplazarlo , mediante acuerdo mutuo entre ambos Gobiernos .
ARTÍCULO 3. Si el Gobierno de

of the Republic of Colombia la República de Colombia deseara should desire that the services of que los servicios de parte de la the Mission be extended in whole Misión , o de toda la Misión fueren

or in part beyond the period stip- extendidos más allá del período ulated , it shall make a written estipulado , hará una propuesta por

proposal to that effect six months escrito con este objeto seis meses

Termination of agreement.

before the expiration of this agreement.
ARTICLE 4. The present agree-

antes de la expiración de este Acuerdo .
ARTÍCULO 4. Este Acuerdo pue-

ment may be terminated prior to de ser terminado antes de la expithe expiration of the period of ración del período de cuatro años four years prescribed in Article 2 , prescrito en el Artículo 2 , o antes or prior to the expiration of the de la expiración de la extensión extension authorized in Article 3, autorizada en el Artículo 3, de

in the following manner:

la manera siguiente:

a) By either Government, sub- a) Por cualquiera de los dos ject to three months ' notice in Gobiernos, siempre que lo notifique writing to the other Government ; por escrito al otro Gobierno con
tres meses de anticipación . b) By the recall of the entire b) Por llamada de todo el

personnel of the Mission by the personal de la Misión por el Government of the United States Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de

of America in the public interest América, en razón de interés pu-

of the United States of America ; blico de los Estados Unidos de

Termination in case of war.

América . c) In case of war between the c) En caso de guerra entre la

Republic of Colombia and any República de Colombia y cual-

61 STAT.]

COLOMBIA-NAVAL MISSION-OCT. 14, 1946

2415

other nation , or in the case of civil quiera otra nación, o en caso de

war in the Republic of Colombia ; guerra civil en la República de Colombia .

d) In case of war between the d) En caso de guerra entre los

United States of America and any Estados Unidos de América y

other country.

cualquier otro país .

TITLE II

TÍTULO II

Composition and Personnel

Composición y Personal

ARTICLE 5. This Mission will ARTÍCULO 5. Esta Misión consconsist of a Chief of Mission of the tará de un Jefe de Misión con

rank of Captain or Commander grado de capitán de navío o de on active service in the United capitán de fragata en servicio States Navy and such other United activo de la Armada de los

States naval personnel as may Estados Unidos de América y del subsequently be requested by the personal naval adicional que soliMinistry of War of Colombia citare el Ministerio de Guerra de

through its authorized representa- Colombia por medio de su repre-

tive in Washington and agreed sentante autorizado en Washing-

upon by the United States Navy ton , y que sea convenido por la

Department.

Secretaría de Marina de los Esta-

dos Unidos de América.

TITLE III

TÍTULO III

Duties, Rank, and Precedence

Deberes, Grados y Precedencia

ARTICLE 6. The duties of the ARTÍCULO 6. La Misión deberá

Mission shall consist of such pro- dar aquellos consejos , dirección y fessional services, advice, and di- servicios profesionales , que acuerrection as may be agreed upon den entre sí el Ministro de Guerra between the Minister of War of de la República de Colombia, y el the Republic of Colombia and the Jefe de la Misión Naval. Chief of the Naval Mission.
ARTICLE 7. The performance of ARTÍCULO 7. El cumplimiento

Responsibility.

duty of all Mission personnel shall de las obligaciones de todo el perbe under the direction of the Chief sonal de la Misión estará a cargo

of Mission who will be responsible del Jefe de la Misión, quien será

to the Minister of War and the responsable ante el Ministro de

Director General of the Navy.

Guerra y ante el Director General

de Marina.

ARTICLE 8. Each member of the ARTÍCULO 8. Cada miembro de Mission shall retain the rank he la Misión retendrá el grado que holds in the United States Navy tiene en la Armada de los Estados

and shall wear the uniform of his Unidos de América, y llevará el

rank in the United States Navy. uniforme que corresponda a su

grado en dicha Armada.

ARTICLE 9. Each member of the

Benefits and preARTÍCULO 9. Cada miembro de rogatives.

Mission shall be entitled to all the la Misión tendrá derecho a todos

benefits and prerogatives which los beneficios y prerrogativas que

2416

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

the Colombian Navy regulations los reglamentos de la Armada de

provide for Colombian Naval offi- Colombia conceden a sus oficiales

cers and enlisted men of corre- y personal subalterno del mismo

sponding rank.

grado .

Disciplinary regulations.

ARTICLE 10. The personnel of ARTÍCULO 10. El personal de la

the Mission shall be governed by Misión estará regido por los regla-

the disciplinary regulations of the mentos disciplinarios de la Armada

United States Navy.

de los Estados Unidos de América.

TITLE IV

TÍTULO IV

Compensation and Perquisites

Remuneración y Obvenciones

ARTICLE 11. Each member of ARTÍCULO 11. Cada miembro de the Mission shall receive from the la Misión recibirá del Gobierno de

Government of the Republic of la República de Colombia la reColombia the net annual compen- muneración neta anual , compusation computed in currency of tada en moneda de los Estados the United States of America that Unidos de América , que de mutuo

may be agreed upon between the acuerdo convengan los Estados

United States of America and the Unidos de América y la República

soCnlnaesls.ification of per- Republic of Colombia. Personnel de Colombia . El personal de la of the Mission shall be classified Misión se clasificará en cuatro cate-

in four categories , to wit :

gorías , a saber:

(a) Chief of Mission (b) Assistant Chief of Mission (c) Other Commissioned Of-
ficers

a) Jefe de la Misión b) Jefe Auxiliar de la Misión c) Otros Oficiales

(d) Chief Warrant, Warrant, and Petty Officers .

d) Primer Oficial Subalterno, Oficiales Subalternos y Suboficiales .

Tax exemption.

This compensation shall be paid Esta remuneración será abonada in twelve equal monthly pay- en doce mensualidades iguales , ments, each due and to be paid on que vencen y deben pagarse el día the last day of the month. These último de cada mes . Cuando se payments, when effected within efectúen dentro de la República de the Republic of Colombia , may be Colombia , estos pagos pueden made in Colombian currency com- hacerse en moneda nacional de la puted at the current official rate of República de Colombia, compuexchange for dollars. Payments tándose a la tasa oficial de cambio which are effected outside the que esté rigiendo para el dólar. Republic of Colombia shall be Los pagos efectuados fuera de la made in currency of the United República de Colombia se harán States of America . The said com- en moneda de los Estados Unidos pensation shall not be subject to de América. Esta remuneración any Colombian tax, or to a tax by no estará gravada por impuesto any political subdivision of the alguno del Gobierno de Colombia, Republic of Colombia , that is now o de cualquiera de sus divisiones or shall hereafter be imposed . políticas , que esté actualmente en Should there, however, at present vigor o que se establezca en el

61 STAT.]

COLOMBIA- NAVAL MISSION- OCT. 14, 1946

2417

or while this agreement is in effect, futuro. Sin embargo, si en la

be any taxes that might affect the actualidad , o durante la vigencia

said compensation, such taxes de este Acuerdo , existiesen algunos

shall be paid by the Ministry of que pudieran afectar esta reWar of Colombia in order to com- muneración , serán pagados por el

ply with the foregoing provisions Ministerio de Guerra de Colombia,

that the stipulated compensation a fin de cumplir con las disposi-

shall be net.

ciones anteriores al efecto de que

la remuneración estipulada sea neta . ARTICLE 12. The compensation ARTÍCULO 12. La retribución agreed upon as indicated in the convenida según el Artículo prepreceding Article shall commence cedente comenzará desde el día

anCdomcomnetinnucaetimoen notf compensation.

upon the date of departure from de la salida de los Estados Unidos the United States of America of de América de cada miembro de

each member of the Mission , and, la Misión y, excepto lo que ex-

except as otherwise expressly pro- presamente se dispone en convided in the present agreement, trario en este Acuerdo , continuará,

shall continue, following the term- después de la terminación de sus

ination of duty with the Mission, servicios en la Misión , durante el

for the return voyage to a cus- viaje de regreso hasta un puerto tomary port of entry into the de entrada ordinario de los Estados

United States of America, and Unidos de América, y además thereafter for the period of any mientras dure cualquier licencia accumulated leave which may be acumulada a que tenga derecho . due.

ARTICLE 13. The compensation ARTÍCULO 13. La remuneración

due for the period of the return debida por el período del viaje de Voyage and accumulated leave regreso y la licencia acumulada, shall be paid to a detached mem- se le pagará al miembro de la ber of the Mission prior to his Misión que haya sido retirado , departure from the Republic of antes de su partida de Colombia, Colombia, and such payment shall y tal pago se calculará a base de be computed for travel via the la ruta ordinaria más corta, cuashortest usually traveled route lesquiera que sean la ruta y el regardless of the route and method modo de viajar utilizados por el of travel used by the said de- miembro de la Misión. tached member.
ARTICLE 14. Each member of ARTÍCULO 14. El Gobierno de tioTnrsavel accommoda . the Mission and his family shall la República de Colombia proporbe furnished by the Government cionará a cada miembro de la

of the Republic of Colombia with Misión y a su familia pasaje de first-class accommodations for primera clase para el viaje re-

travel, via the shortest usually querido y efectuado de conformitraveled route, required and per- dad con este Acuerdo , por la ruta formed under this agreement, be- ordinaria más corta, entre el puerto tween the port of embarkation in de embarque en los Estados Unidos the United States of America and de América y su residencia oficial his official residence in the Repub- en la República de Colombia

2418

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

lic of Colombia, both for the tanto para el viaje de ida como outward and the return voyage. para el de regreso . Todos los holSdhiepffmeectnst, eotfc.house- All expenses of shipment and gastos de embarque y transporte transportation of household effects , de los efectos domésticos , equipaje baggage, and automobile of each y automóvil de cada miembro de member of the Mission between la Misión entre el puerto de the port of embarkation in the embarque de los Estados Unidos United States of America and his y su residencia oficial en la Reofficial residence in the Republic pública de Colombia, serán igualof Colombia shall be paid in the mente pagados por el Gobierno same manner by the Government de la República de Colombia. of the Republic of Colombia. El transporte de estos efectos Transportation of such household domésticos , equipaje y automóvil effects , baggage, and automobile deberá ser hecho en un solo

shall be effected in one shipment, embarque, y todos los embarques and all subsequent shipments shall sucesivos serán por cuenta del be at the expense of the respective miembro de la Misión , excepto en members of the Mission except as aquellos casos para los cuales este otherwise provided in this Agree- Acuerdo dispone lo contrario , o ment, or when such shipments are cuando tales embarques sucesivos necessitated by circumstances be- resulten de circunstancias fuera del yond their control. Payment of control de dicho miembro. El expenses for the transportation of pago de los gastos incurridos en el families, household effects, and transporte de las familias , de los automobiles , and of the extra com- efectos domésticos y los automópensation prescribed in Article 15 , viles, y de la compensación adibelow , in the case of personnel who cional prescrita más adelante en may join the Mission for tempo- el Artículo 15 , no queda incluído rary duty at the request of the en las disposiciones de este Acuerdo Minister of War of the Republic para el caso del personal que pueda of Colombia, shall not be required unirse a la Misión a fin de prestar under this agreement, but shall be servicios temporales a solicitud determined by negotiations be- del Ministro de Guerra de la tween the United States Navy República de Colombia . Se deDepartment and the authorized terminará mediante negociación representative of the Ministry of entre la Secretaría de Marina de War of the Republic of Colombia los Estados Unidos y el reprein Washington at such time as the sentante autorizado en Washingdetail of personnel for such tem- ton del Ministerio de Guerra de la porary duty may be agreed upon . República de Colombia, en el
momento de acordarse el envío

del personal que vaya a prestar tales servicios temporales .

Extra expenses.

ARTICLE 15. An additional al- ARTÍCULO 15. El Gobierno de

lowance of one month's compensa- la República de Colombia otorgará tion, but of not less than two una bonificación adicional de un hundred United States dollars mes de remuneración , pero de no ($200.00) , shall be provided by menos de doscientos dólares en the Government of the Republic moneda de los Estados Unidos de of Colombia to each member of América ($200.00) , a cada miem-

61 STAT.]

COLOMBIA- NAVAL MISSION-OCT. 14, 1946

2419

the Mission to cover extra expenses bro de la Misión para compensar involved in change of residence los gastos extraordinarios en que from the United States of America haya incurrido al cambiar su to the Republic of Colombia. An residencia de los Estados Unidos

equal additional allowance shall be de América a la República de Colpaid to each member for expenses ombia. Se le pagará además una incident to change of residence bonificación igual a cada miembro from the Republic of Colombia to de la Misión para compensar los the United States of America gastos extraordinarios originados

upon completion of duty with the por el cambio de domicilio desde la

Mission.

República de Colombia a los Esta-

dos Unidos de América, al termin-

arse el servicio con la Misión.

ARTICLE 16. The Government

ARTÍCULO 16. El Gobierno de la Free entry for articles for personal use,

of the Republic of Colombia shall República de Colombia concederá, etc.

grant, upon request of the Chief a solicitud del Jefe de la Misión,

of the Mission, free entry for entrada libre de artículos para el

articles for the personal use of the uso personal de los miembros de la

members of the Mission and their Misión y sus familias , y les exo-

families and exemption from tax nerará del pago del impuesto

on motor fuel used in official sobre el combustible que utilicen

Mission cars.

en viajes oficiales en automóviles

de la Misión.

Exemption from tax on motor fuel.

ARTICLE 17. If the services of ARTÍCULO 17. Si el servicio de any member of the Mission should cualquier miembro de la Misión se be terminated prior to the com- termina por acto del Gobierno de

Return trip expenses of members serving less than 2 years, etc.

pletion of two years' service by los Estados Unidos de América

action of the Government of the antes de cumplirse dos años de

United States of America , except servicio , excepto en los casos

in accordance with the provisions previstos en el Artículo 4 (c) , las of Article 4 (c) , the provisions of estipulaciones de los Artículos 14

Ante, p. 2414.

Articles 14 and 15 shall not apply y 15 no serán aplicables para el

to the return voyage. If the viaje de regreso . Si el servicio de

services of any member of the cualquiera de los miembros de la Mission should terminate or be Misión se terminase antes de

terminated prior to the completion cumplir dos años por otra razón of two years' service for any other cualquiera , incluyendo lo dispuesto reason, including those set forth in por el Artículo 4 (c) , tal miembro Article 4 (c) , he shall receive from recibirá del Gobierno de la Rethe Government of the Republic pública de Colombia todas las of Colombia all the compensa- remuneraciones , emolumentos y tions, emoluments , and perquisites obvenciones que le hubieran cowhich would be due if he had rrespondido después de concluir completed two years ' service, but dos años de servicio , pero el the annual salary shall terminate salario anual se dará por terminado as provided by Article 12. But como se dispone en el Artículo 12 . should the Government of the Mas si el Gobierno de los Estados

Ante, p. 2417.

United States of America detach Unidos de América retirase algún any member for breach of disci- miembro por falta de disciplina, pline, no cost of the return to the ninguno de los gastos del regreso

2420

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

United States of America of such a los Estados Unidos de América

member, his family, household de dicho miembro , ni de su familia,

effects , baggage, or automobile mobiliario , equipaje o automóvil

shall be borne by the Republic of será sufragado por la República de

Colombia nor shall the additional Colombia, ni se le pagará a

allowance provided in Article 15 dicho miembro la recompensa adi-

Compensation for
transportation and traveling expenses.

be paid to him.

cional estipulada en el Artículo 15 .

ARTICLE 18. Compensation for ARTÍCULO 18. La remuneración

transportation and traveling ex- por transporte y gastos de viaje

penses in the Republic of Colom- en la República de Colombia,

bia, on Colombian official business, originados por asuntos oficiales del shall be provided by the Govern- Gobierno de Colombia, será otorment of the Republic of Colombia gada por dicho Gobierno de acuerin accordance with Article 9 , ex- do con el Artículo 9 , excepto en el

Ante, p. 2417.

cept for travel performed incident caso de los viajes contemplados to the provisions of Article 14, en las disposiciones del Artículo

which shall be compensated as pro- 14 , los cuales se compensarán con-

vided in that Article .

forme a tal Artículo .

Transportation of remains in case of ARTICLE 19. If any member of ARTÍCULO 19. Si cualquiera de death .
the Mission, or any of his family, los miembros de la Misión , o

should die in the Republic of cualquiera de los miembros de su

Colombia, the Government of the familia falleciere en la República de

Republic of Colombia shall have Colombia, el Gobierno de la Re-

the body transported to such place pública de Colombia tomará las in the United States of America medidas necesarias para que los

as the surviving members of the restos sean transportados al lugar family may decide, but the cost de los Estados Unidos de América to the Government of the Re- que decidan los miembros sobpublic of Colombia shall not ex- revivientes de su familia, pero los ceed the cost of transporting the gastos que correspondan a la Reremains from the place of decease pública de Colombia no excederán to the port of entry in the United los del transporte de los restos deCceoamspeednmsaetmiboenr.due States of America. Should the desde el lugar de fallecimiento deceased be a member of the Mis- hasta el puerto de entrada en los sion, his services with the Mission Estados Unidos de América. En

shall be considered to have ter- caso de que el fallecido sea un minated fifteen ( 15) days after his miembro de la Misión , sus serdeath, and compensations as speci- vicios se darán por terminados fied in Title IV of this agreement quince (15 ) días después del fa-

shall be paid to the widow of the llecimiento, y las remuneraciones

deceased or to any other person y obvenciones de que trata el who may have been designated in Título IV de este Acuerdo se writing by the deceased while pagarán a la viuda del fallecido o serving under the terms of this a cualquiera otra persona que el

agreement ; provided that such fallecido hubiere designado por widow or other person shall not be escrito mientras servía bajo este

compensated for the accrued leave Acuerdo ; pero no se compensará a of the deceased ; and provided dicha viuda o a la otra persona

further that all compensations due por la licencia acumulada a que under the provisions of this Arti- tenía derecho el fallecido . Las

61 STAT.]

COLOMBIA- NAVAL MISSION-OCT. 14, 1946

2421

cle shall be paid within fifteen ( 15 ) sumas que se adeuden conforme

days of the decease of the said a las disposiciones de este Artículo

member.

serán pagadas dentro de los quince

(15) días siguientes al fallecimiento.

TITLE V

TÍTULO V

Administrative Provisions ARTICLE 20. The offices of the Mission shall be located at such

Disposiciones Administrativas ARTÍCULO 20. Las oficinas de la Misión estarán localizadas en el

Location of offices, etc.

place or places as the Minister of lugar o los lugares que designaren War and/or the Director General el Ministro de Guerra y/o el of the Navy may direct. Ade- Director General de Marina , o quate office furniture, equipment, uno de ellos . El Gobierno de la supplies , and official stationery República de Colombia suplirá shall be provided by the Govern- mobiliario adecuado , equipo , matement of the Republic of Colombia . riales y papel de correspondencia
oficial. ARTICLE 21. The Government ARTÍCULO 21. El Gobierno de tioMno,teotcr. transportaof the United States of America los Estados Unidos de América

shall provide the Mission with req- proveerá a la Misión de los vehíuisite motor transportation and culos que se necesiten para el maintenance thereof, for local use. transporte local , y sufragará los The Government of the Republic gastos de operación y conservación ofColombia shall provide the serv- de ellos . El Gobierno de la Reices of two chauffeurs, one for the pública de Colombia proveerá los Chief of Mission and one for utility servicios de dos choferes , uno para service of the Mission as a whole . el Jefe de la Misión, y otro para el
uso de la Misión en general.

TITLE VI

TÍTULO VI

Requisites and Conditions
ARTICLE 22. So long as this agreement, or any extension there-

Requisitos y Condiciones ARTÍCULO 22. Mientras este Acuerdo , o cualquier prórroga del

Services of personnel of other foreign
governments, restric-

of, is in effect, the Government of mismo esté en vigor, el Gobierno

the Republic of Colombia shall de la República de Colombia no

not engage the services of any per- contratará personal de ningún

sonnel of any other foreign govern- otro Gobierno extranjero , salvo

ment, except teachers, for military profesores, para prestar servicios duties connected with the Colom- militares relacionados con la Ar-

bian Navy, except by mutual mada de Colombia, excepto meagreement between the Govern- diante mutuo acuerdo entre el ment of the United States of Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

America and the Government of de América y el Gobierno de la

the Republic of Colombia.

República de Colombia.

ARTICLE 23. Each member of

ARTÍCULO

23. Cada

miembro

Secrecy require . ment.

the Mission shall agree not to de la Misión se comprometerá

divulge or by any means disclose a no divulgar ni revelar por

to any foreign government or to ningún medio a Gobierno extran-

any person whatsoever any secret jero alguno , o a persona alguna , 95347-49--PT. III- -10

2422

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

or confidential matter of which ningún secreto ni asunto confi-

"Family".

he may become cognizant in any dencial que pueda llegar a su

way. This requirement shall con- conocimiento en cualquier forma .

tinue to be binding after termina- Este requisito subsistirá después

tion of duty with the Mission and de terminados los servicios con la

after the expiration or cancellation Misión , y después de la expira-

of this agreement or any extension ción o cancelación de este Acuerdo

thereof .

o cualquier prórroga del mismo .

ARTICLE 24. Throughout this ARTÍCULO 24. En todo este

Annual leave.

agreement the term " family" shall Acuerdo se entenderá que el tér-

be construed as meaning wife and mino " familia " significa la esposa

dependent children.

y los hijos no emancipados .

ARTICLE 25. Each member of ARTÍCULO 25. Cada miembro de

the Mission shall be entitled to la Misión tendrá derecho a un

one month's annual leave with mes de licencia con sueldo por pay, or to a proportional part cada año de servicio , o a una thereof with pay for any frac- parte proporcional de dicha litional part of a year. Unused cencia con sueldo por cualquier

portions of said leave shall be fracción de un año . Las partes de

cumulative from year to year dicha licencia que no hayan sido

during service as a member of usadas podrán acumularse de año

the Mission.

en año mientras el interesado

preste servicios como miembro

de la Misión .

ARTICLE 26. The leave cited in ARTÍCULO 26. La licencia esti-

the preceding Article may be pulada en el Artículo anterior spent in foreign countries. All podrá disfrutarse en países extran-

travel time, including sea travel, jeros . Todo el tiempo que se

shall count as leave and shall not emplee en viajar , incluso los viajes

be in addition to that authorized por mar, contará como parte de la

in the preceding Article.

licencia y no se añadirá al tiempo autorizado en el Artículo anterior.

ARTICLE 27. The Government ARTÍCULO 27. El Gobierno de

of the Republic of Colombia agrees la República de Colombia con-

to grant the leave specified in viene en conceder la licencia esti-

Article 25 upon receipt of written pulada en el Artículo 25 , al recibir

application, approved by the Chief una solicitud escrita , aprobada por

of the Mission.

el Jefe de la Misión .

Hospitalization, etc. ARTICLE 28. In case a member ARTÍCULO 28. En caso de que un

of the Mission becomes ill or miembro de la Misión se enferme o

suffers injury, he shall , at the dis- sufra lesiones , el Gobierno de la cretion of the Chief of the Mission , República de Colombia, por rebe placed by the Government of comendación del Jefe de la Misión, the Republic of Colombia in such lo recluirá en el hospital que dicho hospital as the Chief of the Mission Jefe estime adecuado después de deems suitable after consultation consultar con las autoridades co-

with the Colombian authorities , lombianas. Todos los gastos oca-

and all expenses incurred as the sionados como resultado de tal

result of such illness or injury enfermedad o de tales lesiones

61 STAT.]

COLOMBIA- NAVAL MISSION-OCT. 14, 1946

2423

while the patient is a member of serán pagados por el Gobierno de

the Mission and remains in the la República de Colombia , mien-

Republic of Colombia shall be paid tras el paciente sea miembro de la

by the Government of the Republic of Colombia.
ARTICLE 29. Any member un-

Misión y permanezca en Colombia. ARTÍCULO 29. Cualquier miem-

Replacement in case of disability.

able to perform his duties with bro de la Misión que no pudiere the Mission by reason of long- cumplir con sus deberes por razón

continued physical disability shall de incapacidad física prolongada ,

be replaced.

será reemplazado .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the un- EN TESTIMONIO DE LO CUAL, los

dersigned , duly authorized there- infrascritos , debidamente autori-

to, have signed this agreement in zados firman este Acuerdo en du-

duplicate , in the English and plicado, en los idiomas inglés y

Spanish languages , at Washington , español , en Washington , hoy día

this 14th day of October 1946.

el 14 de octubre de 1946 .

FOR THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : POR LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA:
DEAN ACHESON

FOR THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA: POR LA REPÚBLICA DE COLOMBIA :
C. S. DE SANTAMARIA

2424

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

November 21, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1564]

Agreement between the United States of America and the Netherlands respecting commercial policy. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington November 21 , 1946 ; effective November 21 , 1946.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Netherlands Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON Nov 21 1946

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to make the following statement of the understand-

ing reached during the discussions concerning the "Proposals for Expansion of World Trade and Employment", transmitted to the Netherlands Government by the Government of the United States of America, and the general international conference on trade and employment contemplated by those Proposals.
Pending the conclusion of the negotiations at this conference, the Netherlands Government and the Government of the United States of

America declare it to be their policy to abstain from adopting new measures which would prejudice the objectives of the conference. In this connection your Government has indicated that it may need to adopt special measures for the Netherlands and for the Netherlands

Indies in view of the extraordinary conditions consequent upon the termination of the war. My Government recognizes that it may be necessary for the Netherlands Government to take certain emergency measures during the post-war transitional period , and in fact has

provided for such measures in the aforementioned Proposals. Any such emergency measures would not , of course, prejudice the objectives of the conference. It is understood, moreover, that modifications in the Netherlands customs tariff, on the basis of the Customs Agreement

of September 5, 1944 between the Governments of the Netherlands , Belgium and Luxembourg, would not be considered new measures,

since a result of this customs agreement will be that the general level of tariff rates for the three countries as a whole will not be raised. Our two Governments shall afford each other an adequate oppor-

tunity for consultation regarding proposed measures falling within the scope of this paragraph.
I have the honor to suggest that this note and Your Excellency's reply confirming the foregoing shall be regarded as constituting an agreement between our two Governments concerning this matter.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
DEAN ACHESON

His Excellency Dr. A. LOUDON,

Acting Secretary of State

Ambassador of the Netherlands.

61 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS -COMMERCIAL POLICY-NOV. 21, 1946
The Netherlands Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State
NETHERLANDS EMBASSY WASHINGTON, D.C.
HA-13839 NOVEMBER 21 , 1946
SIR : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note of today's
date in regard to the understanding reached during the recent discussions concerning the proposed general international conference on trade and employment, and hereby confirm your statement of the understanding reached as therein set out.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. A. LOUDON
The Honorable DEAN ACHESON, Acting Secretary of State, Washington, D.C.

2425

2426

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

October 7, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1566]

Agreement between the United States of America and Iceland respecting the termination of the defense agreement of July 1 , 1941 , and provision for the interim use of Keflavik airport. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Reykjavik October 7, 1946; effective October 7, 1946.

The Icelandic Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Minister UTANRÍKISRÁÐUNEYTIÐ

55 Stat. 1547.

REYKJAVÍK, 7th October, 1946. No. 283.

Db. 65.K.8. (óskast tilgreint í svari )

MONSIEUR LE MINISTRE,

I have the honour to refer to Your Excellency's note no. 616 dated

September 19 , 1946 , [ 1 ] proposing certain arrangements with regard to the termination of the defense agreement of July 1 , 1941 , the withdrawal of the United States Armed Forces now in Iceland , and the future use of the Keflavik airport.
In accordance with further conversations that have taken place

between representatives of the Government of Iceland and representatives of the Government of the United States I have the honour to

suggest that the proposals for an agreement between the two Govern-

ments set forth in Your Excellency's note above mentioned be amended to read as follows :

1. The Government of Iceland and the Government of the United States agree to the abrogation of the defense agreement of July 1, 1941 , which shall terminate upon the coming into force of the present agreement .
2. The Keflavik area and the airfields, hereinafter referred to as the airport, and the immovable installations constructed thereon by the United States which will be listed in a joint Icelandic-United States inventory to be prepared concurrently with the transfer of the airport, will be transferred to the Government of Iceland . The airport shall then become the undisputed property of the Icelandic State in fulfilment of the undertakings of the Government of the United States with respect thereto.
3. The Government of the United States will withdraw as promptly as possible United States military and naval personnel now in the city of Reykjavík and during a period of 180 days commencing upon the coming into force of the present agreement will progressively withdraw all United States military and naval personnel now in Iceland .
4. The Keflavik airport will continue to be available for use by aircraft operated by or on behalf of the Government of the United

' [Not printed. ]

61 STAT. ]

ICELAND- KEFLAVIK AIRPORT-OCT. 7, 1946

States in connection with the fulfilment of United States obligations to maintain control agencies in Germany. To this end the Government of the United States shall have the right to and may, at its expense, maintain at the airport either directly or under its responsibility the services, facilities and personnel necessary to such use. The special character of these aircraft and their personnel will be respected as far as customs, immigration and other formalities are concerned. No landing fees shall be charged such aircraft.
5. Neither the stipulations in the foregoing paragraph nor any other stipulations in this agreement shall impair the sovereign rights or the ultimate authority of the Republic of Iceland with regard to the control and operation of the airport or any construction or activities there .
6. In connection with the operation of the airport the United States will train Icelandic personnel in airport techniques to enable Iceland to assume progressively the operation of the airport.
7. The Government of Iceland after having consulted the Government of the United States will place in effect operational, safety, and similar rules to govern use of the airport by all aircraft.
8. The Government of Iceland and the Government of the United States will determine a mutually satisfactory formula for the equitable distribution between them of the cost of maintenance and operation of the airport, provided, however, that neither Government shall be obligated to incur any expense with regard to the maintenance and operation of the airport which it does not deem necessary to meet its own needs.
9. No duty or other taxes shall be charged on material , equipment, supplies or goods imported for the use of the Government of the United States, or its agents, under the agreement or for the use of personnel in Iceland by reason of employment pursuant to the agreement. No export tax shall be charged on the removal of such articles.
10. No personnel of the United States resident on the territory of Iceland by reason of employment pursuant to the agreement shall be liable to pay income tax on income derived from sources outside of Iceland.
11. Upon the termination of the present agreement the Government of the United States shall have the right to remove from the airport all movable installations and equipment which have been constructed or provided by the United States or its agents after the date of the agreement unless by agreement such installations and equipment are bought by the Government of Iceland.
12. The agreement shall continue in effect until the obligations of the Government of the United States to maintain control agencies in Germany shall have been fulfilled ; provided , however, that at any time after the lapse of five years from the coming into force of the present agreement, either Government may propose a review of the agreement. In such case the two Governments shall consult as soon as possible. If no agreement is reached as a result of such consultation within a period of six months from the date of original notification,

2427

2428

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
either Government may at any time thereafter give notice in writing of intention to denounce the agreement which shall then terminate twelve months from the date of such notice.
Should the Government of the United States accept the amended wording set forth above, the affirmative reply of Your Excellency shall constitute, together with this note, the agreement of the two Governments in these matters.
I have the honour to renew to you , Monsieur le Ministre, the assurance of my highest consideration.
OLAFUR THORS.
His Excellency LOUIS G. DREYFUS , jr . United States Minister to Iceland, Reykjavík.

The American Minister to the Icelandic Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 628

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Reykjavik, Iceland, October 7, 1946.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's note of today's date in the following terms :

55 Stat. 1547.
Abrogation of defense agreement.
55 Stat. 1547. Transfer of Keflavik airport to Government of Iceland.
Withdrawal of U. S. military and naval personnel .

"I have the honour to refer to Your Excellency's note no. 616 dated September 19, 1946, proposing certain arrangements with regard to the termination of the defense agreement of July 1st, 1941 , the withdrawal of the United States Armed Forces now in Iceland, and the future use of the Keflavik airport.
"In accordance with further conversations that have taken place between representatives of the Government of Iceland and representatives of the Government of the United States I have the honour
to suggest that the proposals for an agreement between the two Governments set forth in Your Excellency's note above mentioned be amended to read as follows :
"1. The Government of Iceland and the Government of the
United States agree to the abrogation of the defense agreement of July 1 , 1941, which shall terminate upon the coming into force of the present agreement.
"2. The Keflavik area and the airfields, hereinafter referred to as the airport, and the immovable installations constructed thereon by the United States which will be listed in a joint IcelandicUnited States inventory to be prepared concurrently with the transfer of the airport, will be transferred to the Government of Iceland. The airport shall then become the undisputed property of the Icelandic State in fulfillment of the undertakings of the Government of the United States with respect thereto .
"3. The Government of the United States will withdraw as
promptly as possible United States military and naval personnel

61 STAT. ]

ICELAND- KEFLAVIK AIRPORT-OCT. 7, 1946

2429

now in the city of Reykjavik and during a period of 180 days com-

mencing upon the coming into force of the present agreement will progressively withdraw all United States military and naval personnel now in Iceland.
"4. The Keflavik airport will continue to be available for use poArvtaitloaUbi.liSt.,y etocf. air-

by aircraft operated by or on behalf of the Government of the United States in connection with the fulfillment of United States

obligations to maintain control agencies in Germany. To this end the Government of the United States shall have the right to and may, at its expense, maintain at the airport either directly or under its responsibility the services, facilities and personnel necessary to such use. The special character of these aircraft

and their personnel will be respected as far as customs, immigra-

tion and other formalities are concerned. No landing fees shall be charged such aircraft.
"5. Neither the stipulations in the foregoing paragraph nor any other stipulations in this agreement shall impair the sovereign rights or the ultimate authority of the Republic of Iceland with regard to the control and operation of the airport or any construction or activities there.
"6. In connection with the operation of the airport the United States will train Icelandic personnel in airport techniques to

Sovereign rights of Iceland.
Training of Icelandic personnel.

enable Iceland to assume progressively the operation of the airport.
"7. The Government of Iceland after having consulted the Government of the United States will place in effect operational,

Rules for use of airport.

safety, and similar rules to govern use of the airport by all aircraft.
"8. The Government of Iceland and the Government of the

Distribution of cost.

United States will determine a mutually satisfactory formula for

the equitable distribution between them of the cost of maintenance

and operation of the airport, provided, however, that neither Government shall be obligated to incur any expense with regard

to the maintenance and operation of the airport which it does

not deem necessary to meet its own needs. "9. No duty or other taxes shall be charged on material, equip-
ment, supplies or goods imported for the use of the Government

Nonapplication of import and export
taxes.

of the United States , or its agents, under the agreement or for the

use of personnel in Iceland by reason of employment pursuant to

the agreement. No export tax shall be charged on the removal of

such articles. "10. No personnel of the United States resident on the territory
of Iceland by reason of employment pursuant to the agreement

Nonliability ofU. S. personnel for payment
of income tax.

shall be liable to pay income tax on income derived from sources outside of Iceland,
"11. Upon the termination of the present agreement the Government of the United States shall have the right to remove from

Right of U. S. to remove installations, etc.

the airport all movable installations and equipment which have been constructed or provided by the United States or its agents

2430

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Termination of agreement.

after the date of the agreement unless by agreement such installations and equipment are bought by the Government of Iceland.
"12. The agreement shall continue in effect until the obligations of the Government of the United States to maintain control

agencies in Germany shall have been fulfilled ; provided , however, that at any time after the lapse of five years from the coming into force of the present agreement, either Government may propose a review of the agreement. In such case the two Gov-

ernments shall consult as soon as possible. If no agreement is reached as a result of such consultation within a period of six months from the date of original notification , either Government may at any time thereafter give notice in writing of intention to

denounce the agreement which shall then terminate twelve months from the date of such notice.

"Should the Government of the United States accept the amended

wording set forth above, the affirmative reply of Your Excellency shall constitute, together with this note, the agreement of the two Governments in these matters."

Acceptance of agree. ment by U. S.

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Government

of the United States accepts the agreement set out in Your Excel-

lency's note quoted above.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

His Excellency OLAFUR THORS,

LOUIS G. DREYFUS, Jr.

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Reykjavik.

61 STAT. ] CZECHOSLOVAKIA--COMMERCIAL POLICY- NOV. 14, 1946

2431

Agreement between the United States of America and Czechoslovakia respecting commercial policy. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington November 14 , 1946; effective November 14, 1946.

November 14, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1569]

The Acting Secretary of State to the Czechoslovak Ambassador

EXCELLENCY :

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON
November 14, 1946.

The Government of the United States expresses its satisfaction at the successful conclusion of the discussions with the Government of

Czechoslovakia concerning commercial policy, compensation for na-

tionalized properties and related matters of mutual interest in fur-

thering the economic relations between their two countries. These

discussions have resulted in agreement by the two Governments on the

following matters :

1. The two Governments affirm their continued support of the principles set forth in Article VII of the Mutual Aid Agreement of July 11, 1942, and reiterate their desire to achieve the elimination of all

Elimination of dis criminatory treat ment, etc.
56 Stat. 1564.

forms of discriminatory treatment in international commerce, and the reduction of tariffs and other trade barriers.
2. The Government of Czechoslovakia is in accord with the general tenor of the "Proposals for Expansion of World Trade and Employment" recently transmitted to the Government of Czechoslovakia by

Abstention from measures prejudicial
tfeoreonbcjee.ctives of con-

the Government of the United States. Pending the conclusion of the

negotiations at the general international conference on trade and em-

ployment contemplated by the "Proposals", the two Governments declare it to be their policy to abstain from adopting new measures

which would prejudice the objectives of the conference. 3. The two Governments share the view that the conduct of inter-
national trade through the mechanism of bilateral barter , clearing,

Return to lateralism .

multi-

and similar agreements is generally not compatible with the maximi-

zation of benefits deriving from trade or with the goal of eliminating trade discrimination . The Government of Czechoslovakia has ex-

pressed the view, however, that the use of such agreements during the postwar transition period has been necessary, but it will direct its efforts to their abandonment and a return to multilateralism at the

earliest possible date.

4. The Government of Czechoslovakia has declared that it must

Maintenance by Czechoslovakia of im-

maintain a system of import and export controls during the postwar ptororlts.and export con-

transition period in order to safeguard the equilibrium of its balance

of payments while seeking to achieve in an orderly way its plan of economic reconstruction. The Government of Czechoslovakia will

administer the issuance of import licenses without discrimination as

2432

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

among foreign sources of supply as soon as Czechoslovakia possesses

or is able to obtain sufficient free foreign exchange so that it is no

Treatment by monopolies.

longer necessary for her to make her purchases within the limits of bilateral trade and financial agreements.
5. If the Government of either country establishes or maintains

a monopoly or enterprise for the importation , exportation, purchase,

sale, distribution or production of any article, or grants exclusive priv-

ileges to any enterprise to import, export, purchase, sell, distribute or produce any article, such monopoly or enterprise shall accord to the

commerce of the other country fair and equitable treatment in respect

of its purchases of articles the growth, produce or manufacture of

foreign countries and its sales of articles destined for foreign countries. To this end the monopoly or enterprise shall , in making such

purchases or sales of any article, be influenced solely by considera-

tions, such as price , quality, marketability, transportation and terms of purchase or sale, which would ordinarily be taken into account by

a private commercial enterprise interested solely in purchasing or sell-

Intention to conclude treaty of friendship and commerce.

ing such article on the most favorable terms. 6. The two Governments express their intention at the earliest
practicable date to enter into negotiations looking toward the con-

clusion of a comprehensive treaty of friendship and commerce which

will regulate to their mutual satisfaction economic relations between

Continuation of most favored - nation

the

two

countries.

Meanwhile the two Governments have taken

treatment.

cognizance of the fact that each continues to accord to articles the

growth, produce or manufacture of the other unconditional most-

favored-nation treatment with respect to customs duties, the rules

and formalities of customs, and the taxation , sale, distribution , and

use within its territory of such articles consistent with provisions of

the former trade agreement between the two countries dated March

53 Stat. 2293.

7, 1938.

Compensation for claims.

7. The Government of the United States and the Government of

Czechoslovakia will make adequate and effective compensation to

nationals of one country with respect to their rights or interests in

properties which have been or may be nationalized or requisitioned

by the Government of the other country. In this connection , the Government of the United States has noted with satisfaction that

negotiations concerning compensation on account of such claims will

Information concerning international economic relations of Czechoslovakia.

shortly begin in Praha. 8. The two Governments agree to afford each other adequate op-
portunity for consultation regarding the matters mentioned above,

and the Government of Czechoslovakia , recognizing that it is the

normal practice of the Government of the United States to make

public comprehensive information concerning its international eco-

nomic relations, agrees to make available to the Government of the

United States full information, similar in scope and character to

that normally made public by the United States, concerning the international economic relations of Czechoslovakia.

The Government of the United States will be pleased to receive

61 STAT. ] CZECHOSLOVAKIA-COMMERCIAL POLICY- NOV. 14, 1946
from the Government of Czechoslovakia a statement confirming its understanding of this agreement reached by the two Governments.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
DEAN ACHESON Acting Secretary of State His Excellency DR. JURAJ SLÁVIK, Ambassador of Czechoslovakia.

The Czechoslovak Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

EXCELLENCY :

CZECHOSLOVAK EMBASSY, WASHINGTON, D. C. November 14, 1946.

The Government of Czechoslovakia expresses its satisfaction at the successful conclusion of the discussions with the Government of the

United States concerning commercial policy, compensation for nationalized properties and related matters of mutual interest in furthering the economic relations between their two countries. These discussions have resulted in agreement by the two Governments on the following matters :

1. The two Governments affirm their continued support of the principles set forth in Article VII of the Mutual Aid Agreement of July 11, 1942, and reiterate their desire to achieve the elimination of all forms of discriminatory treatment in international commerce, and the reduction of tariffs and other trade barriers.
2. The Government of Czechoslovakia is in accord with the general tenor of the "Proposals for Expansion of World Trade and Employment" recently transmitted to the Government of Czechoslovakia by the Government of the United States. Pending the conclusion of the negotiations at the general international conference on trade and employment contemplated by the "Proposals ", the two Governments declare it to be their policy to abstain from adopting new measures which would prejudice the objectives of the conference.
3. The two Governments share the view that the conduct of international trade through the mechanism of bilateral barter, clearing, and similar agreements is generally not compatible with the maximization of benefits deriving from trade or with the goal of eliminating trade descrimination . The Government of Czechoslovakia has expressed the view, however, that the use of such agreements during the postwar transition period has been necessary, but it will direct its efforts to their abandonment and a return to multilateralism at the earliest possible date.
4. The Government of Czechoslovakia has declared that it must maintain a system of import and export controls during the postwar transition period in order to safeguard the equilibrium of its

2433

2434

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
balance of payments while seeking to achieve in an orderly way its plan of economic reconstruction. The Government of Czechoslovakia will administer the issuance of import licenses without discrimination as among foreign sources of supply as soon as Czechoslovakia possesses or is able to obtain sufficient free foreign exchange so that it is no longer necessary for her to make her purchases within the limits of bilateral trade and financial agreements.
5. If the Government of either country establishes or maintains a monopoly or enterprise for the importation , exportation, purchase, sale distribution or production of any article, or grants exclusive privileges to any enterprise to import, export , purchase, sell , distribute or produce any article , such monopoly or enterprise shall accord to the commerce of the other country fair and equitable treatment in respect of its purchases of articles the growth, produce or manufacture of foreign countries and its sales of articles destined for foreign countries. To this end the monopoly or enterprise shall , in making such purchases or sales of any article, be influenced solely by considerations, such as price, quality, marketability, transportation and terms of purchase or sale, which would ordinarily be taken into account by a private commercial enterprise interested solely in purchasing or selling such article on the most favorable terms.
6. The two Governments express their intention at the earliest practicable date to enter into negotiations looking toward the conclusion of a comprehensive treaty of friendship and commerce which will regulate to their mutual satisfaction economic relations between the two countries. Meanwhile the two Governments have taken cognizance of the fact that each continues to accord to articles the growth, produce or manufacture of the other unconditional most- favorednation treatment with respect to customs duties , the rules and formalities of customs, and the taxation, sale, distribution, and use within its territory of such articles consistent with provisions of the former trade agreement between the two countries dated March 7, 1938.
7. The Government of the United States and the Government of Czechoslovakia will make adequate and effective compensation to nationals of one country with respect to their rights or interests in properties which have been or may be nationalized or requisitioned by the Government of the other country. In this connection , the Government of the United States has noted with satisfaction that negotiations concerning compensation on account of such claims will shortly begin in Praha.
8. The two Governments agree to afford each other adequate opportunity for consultation regarding the matters mentioned above, and the Government of Czechoslovakia , recognizing that it is the normal practice of the Government of the United States to make public comprehensive information concerning its international economic relations, agrees to make available to the Government of the United States full information , similar in scope and character to that normally made public by the United States, concerning the international economic relations of Czechoslovakia.

61 STAT. ] CZECHOSLOVAKIA-- COMMERCIAL POLICY- NOV. 14, 1946
The Government of the Czechoslovak Republic is pleased to confirm by the present note its understanding of this agreement reached by the two Governments.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
DR. JURAJ SLÁVIK His Excellency
DEAN G. ACHESON, Acting Secretary of State, Washington, D. O.

2435

2436

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

May 4 , 18, June 10, July 4, 8, 11 , August 15, 26, September 10, October 3, 7, 1946
[T. I. A. S. 1572]

Understandings respecting trade relations with the Philippines. Effected by exchanges of notes between the United States of America and other governments signed at Washington May 4 , 18, June 10, July 4 , 8, 11, August 15, 26, September 10, and October 3, 7, 1946, regarding the application of certain treaties and agreements.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Belgian Ambassador

EXCELLENCY :

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON May 4, 1946

With reference to the forthcoming independence of the Philippines on July 4, 1946, my Government considers that provision for a transi-

tional period for dealing with the special tariff position which Philip-

goEodnstryunodfePrhilPihpipliinpe-
pine Trade Act of 60 Stat. 141. 22 U. S. C. § 1251
et seg.

pine products have occupied for many years in the United States is an essential accompaniment to Philippine independence. Accordingly, under the Philippine Trade Act approved April 30, 1946 , goods the growth, produce or manufacture of the Philippines will enter the United States free of duty until 1954 , after which they will

be subject to gradually and regularly increasing rates of duty or

decreasing duty-free quotas until 1974 when general rates will become

applicable and all preferences will be completely eliminated .

48 Stat. 456.
48 U. S. C. § 1232 et seq.

Since the enactment of the Philippine Independence Act approved March 24, 1934, my Government has foreseen the probable necessity of providing for such a transitional period and has since then

consistently excepted from most- favored -nation obligations which it

has undertaken toward foreign governments advantages which it

might continue to accord to Philippine products after the proclama-

tion of Philippine independence . Some thirty instruments in force with other governments, for example, permit the continuation of the

exceptional tariff treatment now accorded by my Government to

Philippine products, irrespective of the forthcoming change in the

Nonextension to Belgium of advantages accorded U. S. to Philippinesb.y

Commonwealth's political status. With a view, therefore , to placing the relations between the United
States and Belgium upon the same basis, with respect to the matters

involved, as the relations existing under the treaties and agreements

referred to in the preceding paragraph, I have the honor to propose

that the most- favored -nation provisions of the Reciprocal Trade

49 Stat. 3680.

Agreement between the United States of America and the BelgoLuxembourg Economic Union signed February 27 , 1935 , shall not be understood to require the extension to Belgium of advantages

accorded by the United States to the Philippines. In view of the imminence of the inauguration of an independent

Philippine Government, I should be glad to have the reply of Your Excellency's Government to this proposal at an early date.

61 STAT.] TRADE, PHILIPPINES- May 4, 18, June 10, July 4, 8, 11, Aug. 15, 26, Sept. 10, Oct. 3, 7, 11994466

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

DEAN ACHESON

His Excellency Baron ROBERT SILVERCRUYS ,

Acting Secretary of State

Belgian Ambassador.

The Belgian Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

AMBASSADE DE BELGIQUE SIR,

WASHINGTON, July 11th, 1946.

I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of May 4th, by which you kindly advised me that the Government of the United

States of America considers that provision for a transitional period for dealing with the special tariff position which the Philippines products have occupied for many years in the United States , is an essential accompaniment to Philippine independence.
Accordingly, under the Philippine Trade Act approved April 30 , 1946, goods the growth, produce or manufacture of the Philippines, will enter the United States free of duty until 1954 , after which they will be subject to gradually and regularly increasing rates of duty or decreasing duty-free quotas until 1974 when general rates will become applicable and all preferences will be completely eliminated .
Upon instructions received from my Government , I am pleased to advise you that, on behalf of the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union, they agree that the most- favoured -nation provisions of the Reciprocal Trade Agreement between the United States of America and the Belgo-Luxembourg Economic Union, signed February 27, 1935, shall not be understood to require during the above mentioned period, the extension to the Economic Union of advantages accorded by the United States of America to the Philippines.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration. SILVERCRUYS

The Honorable DEAN ACHESON

The Belgian Ambassador

Acting Secretary of State Washington D. C.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Bolivian Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

EXCELLENCY :

May 4 1946

With reference to the forthcoming independence of the Philippines on July 4, 1946, my Government considers that provision for a
95347-49--PT. III- 11

2437

2438

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

transitional period for dealing with the special tariff position which

Philippine products have occupied for many years in the United

States is an essential accompaniment to Philippine Independence.

goEodnstrunydoefrPPhhiilliippppiinnee Trade Act of 1946.
60 Stat. 141 .
et 2s2eq.U. S. C. § 1251

Accordingly, under the Philippine Trade Act approved April 30 , 1946, goods the growth, produce or manufacture of the Philippines will enter the United States free of duty until 1954 , after which they

will be subject to gradually and regularly increasing rates of duty

or decreasing duty-free quotas until 1974 when general rates will be-

come applicable and all preferences will be completely eliminated .

48 Stat. 456 . 48 U. S. C. § 1232 et seq.

Since the enactment of the Philippine Independence Act approved March 24 , 1934, my Government has foreseen the probable necessity of providing for such a transitional period and has since then consistently excepted from most- favored -nation obligations which it has

undertaken toward foreign governments advantages which it might continue to accord to Philippine products after the proclamation of Philippine independence. Some thirty instruments in force with

other governments, for example, permit the continuation of the ex-

ceptional tariff treatment now accorded by my Government to Philip-

pine products, irrespective of the forthcoming change in the Common-

Nonextension to Bolivia of advantages
Pahcicloirpdpeidnebsy. U. S. to

wealth's political status. With a view, therefore, to placing the relations between the United
States and Bolivia upon the same basis, with respect to the matters involved, as the relations existing under the treaties and agreements

referred to in the preceding paragraph, I have the honor to propose

that the most- favored-nation provisions of the Treaty of Peace,

12 Stat. 1003.

Friendship , Commerce and Navigation between the United States and Bolivia signed May 13 , 1858, shall not be understood to require

the extension to Bolivia of advantages accorded by the United States to the Philippines.
In view of the imminence of the inauguration of an independent

Philippine Government, I should be glad to have the reply of Your Excellency's Government to this proposal at an early date.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

DEAN ACHESON

His Excellency Señor Don VICTOR ANDRADE,

Acting Secretary of State

Ambassador of Bolivia.

The Bolivian Ambassador to the Secretary of State
EMBAJADA DE BOLIVIA WASHINGTON
EXCELLENCY :
I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's note of May 4, 1946, with regard to the provision that the most favored nation clause of the Treaty of Peace, Friendship , Commerce and Navigation between the United States and Bolivia, signed May 13, 1858 , shall not be under-

61 STAT. ] TRADE, PHILIPPINES-May 4, 18, June 10, July 4, 8, 11, 1946 Aug. 15 , 26, Sept. 10, Oct. 3, 7, 1946

stood to require the extension to Bolivia of advantages accorded by

the United States to the Philippines. In appreciation of the facts explained in Your Excellency's note,
and as an act of friendship to the Philippine Nation in the achieving

of its independence, I have the honor to express, on behalf of the

Bolivian Government, the acceptance of this proposition. Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration. V ANDRADE

His Excellency Mr. JAMES F. BYRNES,

Washington, D.C. , June 10, 1946

Secretary of State, Washington, D.C.

2439

The Acting Secretary of State to the Danish Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

SIR :

May 4 1946

With reference to the forthcoming independence of the Philippines

on July 4, 1946, my Government considers that provision for a transitional period for dealing with the special tariff position which Philippine products have occupied for many years in the United States is an essential accompaniment to Philippine independence. Accordingly, under the Philippine Trade Act approved April 30 , 1946, goods the growth, produce or manufacture of the Philippines will enter the United States free of duty until 1954, after which they will be

Entry of Philippine goods under Philippine
Tr6a0dSetaAtc. t14o1f. 1946. 22 U. S. C. § 1251
et seq.

subject to gradually and regularly increasing rates of duty or decreasing duty-free quotas until 1974 when general rates will become

applicable and all preferences will be completely eliminated. Since the enactment of the Philippine Independence Act approved
March 24, 1934, my Government has foreseen the probable necessity of providing for such a transitional period and has since then con-

48 Stat. 456. 48 U. S. O. § 1232 et seq.

sistently excepted from most-favored -nation obligations which it has

undertaken toward foreign governments advantages which it might

continue to accord to Philippine products after the proclamation of Philippine independence. Some thirty instruments in force with other governments, for example, permit the continuation of the ex-

ceptional tariff treatment now accorded by my Government to

Philippine products, irrespective of the forthcoming change in the Commonwealth's political status.
With a view, therefore , to placing the relations between the United States and Denmark upon the same basis, with respect to the matters involved, as the relations existing under the treaties and agreements

Nonextensionto Denmark of advan-
ttaogPehsialcicpopridneedsb. y U.S.

referred to in the preceding paragraph, my Government proposes

that the most- favored-nation provisions of the Treaty of Friendship,

2440 8 Stat. 340.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Commerce and Navigation between the United States and the Kingdom of Denmark signed April 26, 1826, shall not be understood to require the extension to Denmark of advantages accorded by the United States to the Philippines.
In view of the imminence of the inauguration of an independent Philippine Government, I should be glad to have the reply of your Government to this proposal at an early date.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration. DEAN ACHESON

Mr. CARL A. C. BRUN,

Acting Secretary of State

Chargé d'Affairs ad interim of Denmark.

The Danish Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Acting Secretary of State

SIR :

ROYAL DANISH LEGATION WASHINGTON, D.C.
SEPTEMBER 10 , 1946

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of the Department of State's note of May 4th, according to which the Government of the United States of America considers that provision for a transitional period for dealing with the special tariff position which the Philippines products have occupied for many years in the United States , is an essential accompaniment to Philippine independence.
Accordingly, under the Philippine Trade Act approved April 30, 1946, goods the growth, produce or manufacture of the Philippines, will enter the United States free of duty until 1954 , after which they will be subject to gradually and regularly increasing rates of duty or decreasing duty- free quotas until 1974 when general rates will become applicable and all preferences will be completely eliminated .
Upon instructions received , I have the honor to inform you that the Danish Government agree that the most- favored-nation provisions of the Treaty of Friendship , Commerce and Navigation between the United States and the Kingdom of Denmark signed on April 26, 1826,

shall not be understood to require during the said period the extension to Denmark of the above-mentioned advantages accorded by the United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you , Sir, the assurances of my highest consideration.
POVL BANG-JENSEN The Honorable
WILLIAM L. CLAYTON

Acting Secretary of State Department of State Washington, D.C.

May 4, 18, June 10, July 4, 8, 11, 1946 61 STAT. ] TRADE, PHILIPPINES Aug. 15, 26, Sept. 10, Oct. 3, 7, 1946
The Acting Secretary of State to the Dominican Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

2441

SIR :

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON May 4 1946

With reference to the forthcoming independence of the Philippines

on July 4, 1946, my Government considers that provision for a transi-

tional period for dealing with the special tariff position which Philip-

pine products have occupied for many years in the United States is an essential accompaniment to Philippine independence. Accordingly, under the Philippine Trade Act approved April 30 , 1946 , goods the growth, produce or manufacture of the Philippines will enter the United States free of duty until 1954, after which they will be subject

Entry of Philippine goods under Philip-
pi6n0eSTtraatd.e14A1c.t of 1946. 22 U. S. C. § 1251 et
seq.

to gradually and regularly increasing rates of duty or decreasing duty-

free quotas until 1974 when general rates will become applicable and

all preferences will be completely eliminated.

Since the enactment of the Philippine Independence Act approved March 24, 1934 , my Government has foreseen the probable necessity of providing for such a transitional period and has since then con-

48 Stat. 456. 48 U. S. C. § 1232 et seq.

sistently excepted from most-favored-nation obligations which it has

undertaken toward foreign governments advantages which it might

continue to accord to Philippine products after the proclamation of

Philippine independence. Some thirty instruments in force with

other governments, for example, permit the continuation of the ex-

ceptional tariff treatment now accorded by my Government to Philip-

pine products, irrespective of the forthcoming change in the Com-

monwealth's political status. With a view, therefore, to placing the relations between the United
States and the Dominican Republic upon the same basis, with respect

Nonextension to Dominican Republic of advantages toacPchoirldiepd-

to the matters involved , as the relations existing under the treaties and agreements referred to in the preceding paragraph, I have the honor to propose that the provisions of the Agreement between the United

pines.

States and the Dominican Republic effected by an exchange of notes signed September 25 , 1924, shall not be understood to require the

Treaty Series 700.

extension to the Dominican Republic of advantages accorded by the United States to the Philippines.

In view of the imminence of the inauguration of an independent

Philippine Government, I should be glad to have the reply of your Government to this proposal at an early date.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. DEAN ACHESON

The Honorable

Acting Secretary of State

Señor Dr. Don J. R. RODRIGUEZ ,

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the Dominican Republic.

2442

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

The Dominican Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

SEÑOR SECRETARIO :

EMBAJADA DE LA REPÚBLICA DOMINICANA WASHINGTON Octubre 7 de 1946.

Tengo la honra de referirme a la nota de Vuestra Excelencia del 4 de mayo del año en curso y de informar a Vuestra Excelencia, de con-

formidad con instrucciones que he recibido al efecto, que el Gobierno

Dominicano acepta que no se considere que las provisiones del Acuerdo

entre los Estados Unidos y la República Dominicana , efectuado por un

cambio de notas firmadas el 25 de Septiembre de 1924, implican la

extensión a la República Dominicana de las ventajas concedidas por los Estados Unidos a las Filipinas.

Acepte, Señor Secretario, las renovadas seguridades de mi más alta consideración.

A Su Excelencia DEAN ACHESON,

EMILIO G. GODOY

Secretario de Estado Interino

de los Estados Unidos de América,

Washington, D.C.

Translation

MR. SECRETARY :

EMBASSY OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC WASHINGTON October 7, 1946.

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's note of the 4th of May of the present year, and to inform Your Excellency , in conformity with instructions that I have received to that effect, that the Dominican Government agrees that the provisions of the Agreement between the United States and the Dominican Republic, effected by an exchange of notes signed the 25th of September 1924, shall not be understood to imply the extension to the Dominican Republic of the advantages accorded by the United States to the Philippines.
Accept, Mr. Secretary, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
EMILIO G. GODOY His Excellency DEAN ACHESON,
Acting Secretary of State of the United States of America, Washington, D.O.

May 4, 18, June 10, July 4, 8, 11, 1946 61 STAT. ] TRADE, PHILIPPINES- Aug. 15, 26, Sept. 10, Oct. 3, 7, 1946

2443

The Acting Secretary of State to the Egyptian Minister

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

SIR :

May 4 1946

With reference to the forthcoming independence of the Philippines on July 4, 1946, my Government considers that provision for a transi-

tional period for dealing with the special tariff position which
Philippine products have occupied for many years in the United States Entry of Philippine
is an essential accompaniment to Philippine independence. Accord- goods under Philip-
ingly, under the Philippine Trade Act approved April 30, 1946, goods p1i9n4e6. Trade Act of 60 Stat. 141.
the growth, produce or manufacture of the Philippines will enter 22 U. S. C. § 1251 et
the United States free of duty until 1954 , after which they will be seq.

subject to gradually and regularly increasing rates of duty or decreasing duty- free quotas until 1974 when general rates will become

applicable and all preferences will be completely eliminated.

Since the enactment of the Philippine Independence Act approved March 24, 1934, my Government has foreseen the probable necessity of providing for such a transitional period and has since then con-

48 Stat. 456. 48 U. S. C. § 1232 et seq.

sistently excepted from most- favored -nation obligations which it has

undertaken toward foreign governments advantages which it might

continue to accord to Philippine products after the proclamation of Philippine independence. Some thirty instruments in force with

other governments, for example, permit the continuation of the ex-

ceptional tariff treatment now accorded by my Government to Philip-

pine products, irrespective of the forthcoming change in the Commonwealth's political status.
With a view, therefore, to placing the relations between the United States and Egypt upon the same basis, with respect to the matters involved, as the relations existing under the treaties and agreements

Nonextension to Egypt of advantages aPchciolirpdpeidnebsy. U. S. to

referred to in the preceding paragraph, I have the honor to propose

that the provisions of the Provisional Commercial Agreement between the United States of America and Egypt effected by an exchange of notes signed May 24, 1930, shall not be understood to require the

47 Stat. 2582.

extension to Egypt of advantages accorded by the United States to the Philippines.
In view of the imminence of the inauguration of an independent

Philippine Government, I should be glad to have the reply of your Government to this proposal at an early date.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. DEAN ACHESON

The Honorable MAHMOUD HASSAN, Minister of Egypt.

Acting Secretary of State

2444

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Egyptian Minister to the Acting Secretary of State

SIR,

ROYAL EGYPTIAN LEGATION WASHINGTON, D.C. August 15, 1946

I have the honour to refer to your letter dated May 4, 1946 informing me that your Government made a provision for a transitional period for dealing with the special tariff position which Philippine products have occupied before independence. Accordingly, under the Philippine Trade Act approved April 30, 1946, goods the growth, produce or manufacture of the Philippines will enter the United States free of duty until 1954, after which they will be subject to gradually and regularly increasing rates of duty or decreasing duty-free quotas until 1974 when general rates will become applicable and all preferences will be completely eliminated .
I have the pleasure to inform you that after referring the contents of your communication to my Government, I have been authorized to state that until the expiration date of the exceptional treatment of Philippine imports, my Government does not intend to invoke the most-favored-nation clause under the Provisional Commercial Agreement between the United States of America and Egypt effected by an exchange of notes signed May 24, 1930 .
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . M HASSAN
The Honourable DEAN ACHESON Acting Secretary of State Washington, D.C.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Ethiopian Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

SIR :

May 4 1946

With reference to the forthcoming independence of the Philippines

on July 4, 1946, my Government considers that provision for a transi-

tional period for dealing with the special tariff position which Philip-

pine products have occupied for many years in the United States

goEondtsryunodfePrhilPihpipliinp-e
1p9i4n6e. Trade Act of 60 Stat. 141. 22 U. S. C. § 1251 et
seq.

is an essential accompaniment to Philippine independence. Accordingly, under the Philippine Trade Act approved April 30, 1946, goods the growth, produce or manufacture of the Philippines will enter the United States free of duty until 1954, after which they

will be subject to gradually and regularly increasing rates of duty

or decreasing duty-free quotas until 1974 when general rates will

become applicable and all preferences will be completely eliminated .

May 4, 18, June 10, July 4, 8, 11, 1946 61 STAT. ] TRADE, PHILIPPINES- Aug. 15, 26, Sept. 10, Oct. 3, 7, 1946

2445

Since the enactment of the Philippine Independence Act approved March 24 , 1934, my Government has foreseen the probable necessity of providing for such a transitional period and has since then consistently excepted from most-favored-nation obligations which it has

48 Stat. 456.
48 U. S. C. § 1232 et seq.

undertaken toward foreign governments advantages which it might continue to accord to Philippine products after the proclamation of Philippine independence. Some thirty instruments in force with other governments, for example, permit the continuation of the

exceptional tariff treatment now accorded by my Government to

Philippine products , irrespective of the forthcoming change in the

Commonwealth's political status. With a view, therefore, to placing the relations between the United
States and Ethiopia upon the same basis, with respect to the matters involved, as the relations existing under the treaties and agreements referred to in the preceding paragraph, my Government proposes

Nonextension to Ethiopia ofadvantages
aPchciolridppeidnebsy. U. S. to

that the most-favored-nation provisions of the Treaty of Commerce between the United States and Ethiopia signed June 27, 1914, shall

41 Stat. 1711.

not be understood to require the extension to Ethiopia of advantages

accorded by the United States to the Philippines. In view of the imminence of the inauguration of an independent

Philippine Government, I should be glad to have the reply of your

Government to this proposal at an early date.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration. DEAN ACHESON

Mr. GETAHOUN TESEMMA,

Acting Secretary of State

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of Ethiopia.

The Ethiopian Minister to the Under Secretary of State

IMPERIAL ETHIOPIAN LEGATION WASHINGTON, D.C.
SIR :

No: 2318/GO/2. JULY 4, 1946.

With reference to your Note of the 4th May last and subsequent

reply No : 2073 /GO/2 of the 10th May, I have the honour to inform you

that the Imperial Ethiopian Government are in agreement that the

most-favored -nation provisions of the Treaty of Commerce between

the United States and Ethiopia signed June 27, 1914, shall not be

understood to require the extension to Ethiopia of advantages accorded

by the United States to the Philippines.

I avail myself of this opportunity to express to you, Sir, the assur-

ances of my highest consideration.

RAS H. S. IMRU

Minister

Honourable DEAN ACHESON

Under-Secretary of State

Department of State Washington, D.C.

2446

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Norwegian Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

SIR :

May 4 1946

With reference to the forthcoming independence of the Philippines

on July 4 , 1946, my Government considers that provision for a transi-

tional period for dealing with the special tariff position which Philip-

pine products have occupied for many years in the United States is

goEondtsryunodfePrhilPihpipliinp-e
p19i4n6e. Trade Act of 60 Stat. 141. 22 U. S. C. § 1251 et
seq.

an essential accompaniment to Philippine independence. Accordingly, under the Philippine Trade Act approved April 30 , 1946 , goods the growth, produce or manufacture of the Philippines will enter the United States free of duty until 1954, after which they will be subject

to gradually and regularly increasing rates of duty or decreasing

duty-free quotas until 1974 when general rates will become applicable

and all preferences will be completely eliminated.

48 Stat. 456. 48 U. S. C. § 1232 et seq.

Since the enactment of the Philippine Independence Act approved March 24, 1934, my Government has foreseen the probable necessity of providing for such a transitional period and has since then con-

sistently excepted from most-favored-nation obligations which it has

undertaken toward foreign governments advantages which it might

continue to accord to Philippine products after the proclamation of

Philippine independence. Some thirty instruments in force with other governments, for example, permit the continuation of the ex-

ceptional tariff treatment now accorded by my Government to Philip-
pine products, irrespective of the forthcoming change in the Commonwealth's political status. Nonextension to Norway of advan- With a view, therefore , to placing the relations between the United ttaogePshialcicpopridneedsb. y U.S. States and Norway upon the same basis, with respect to the matters involved, as the relations existing under the treaties and agreements
referred to in the preceding paragraph, my Government proposes that

the most-favored-nation provisions of the Treaty of Friendship , Com-

47 Stat. 2135.

merce and Consular Rights between the United States of America and Norway signed June 5, 1928, shall not be understood to require the

extension to Norway of advantages accorded by the United States to the Philippines.

In view of the imminence of the inauguration of an independent

Philippine Government, I should be glad to have the reply of your Government to this proposal at an early date.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration . DEAN ACHESON

Mr. KNUT LYKKE ,

Acting Secretary of State

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of Norway.

61 STAT.] TRADE, PHILIPPINES May 4, 18, June 10, July 4, 8, 11, 1946 Aug. 15, 26, Sept. 10, Oct. 3, 7, 1946

The Norwegian Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

NORWEGIAN EMBASSY WASHINGTON 7, D.C.
EXCELLENCY :

JULY 8 , 1946.

I have the honor to refer to your note of May 4th, 1946 in which you proposed that the most-favored-nations provisions of the Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Consular Rights between Norway and the United States of America signed June 5th, 1928, shall not be understood to require the extension to Norway of advantages accorded by the United States to the Phillipines during a transitional period following the proclamation of Phillipine independence.
I am happy to reply that in appreciation of the need for such concessions and as an act of friendship toward the Republic of the Phillipines my Government has instructed me to accept your Excellency's proposal .
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
W. MORGENSTIERNE His Excellency
DEAN ACHESON,

No: 213

Acting Secretary of State, Washington 25, D.C.

2447

The Acting Secretary of State to the Portuguese Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

EXCELLENCY :

May 18, 1946

With reference to the forthcoming independence of the Philippines

on July 4, 1946, my Government considers that provision for a transi-

tional period for dealing with the special tariff position which Philip-

pine products have occupied for many years in the United States is an essential accompaniment to Philippine independence. Accordingly, under the Philippine Trade Act approved April 30, 1946, goods the growth, produce or manufacture of the Philippines will enter the United States free of duty until 1954, after which they will be subject

Entry of Philippine goods under Philip-
p1i9n46e. Trade Act of 60 Stat. 141. 22 U. S. C. § 1251
et seq.

to gradually and regularly increasing rates of duty or decreasing duty-

free quotas until 1974 when general rates will become applicable and

all preferences will be completely eliminated .

Since the enactment of the Philippine Independence Act approved March 24, 1934, my Government has foreseen the probable necessity of providing for such a transitional period and has since then con-

48 Stat. 456.
48 U. S. C. § 1232 et seg.

sistently excepted from most- favored-nation obligations which it has undertaken toward foreign governments advantages which it might

continue to accord to Philippine products after the proclamation of Philippine independence. Some thirty instruments in force with

2448

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

other governments, for example, permit the continuation of the

exceptional tariff treatment now accorded by my Government to Philippine products, irrespective of the forthcoming change in the

Commonwealth's political status.

Nonextension to Portugal of advan-
tUa.geSs. taocPchoirlidpepidnebs.y

With a view, therefore, to placing the relations between the United States and Portugal upon the same basis, with respect to the matters involved, as the relations existing under the treaties and agreements

referred to in the preceding paragraph , I have the honor to propose

that the provisions of the Commercial Arrangement between the

United States of America and Portugal effected by an exchange of Treaty Series 514½ notes signed June 28, 1910, shall not be understood to require the

extension to Portugal of advantages accorded by the United States

to the Philippines.

In view of the imminence of the inauguration of an independent

Philippine Government, I should be glad to have the reply of Your

Excellency's Government to this proposal at an early date.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

DEAN ACHESON

His Excellency Dr. JOAO ANTONIO DE BIANCHI,

Acting Secretary of State

Ambassador of Portugal.

The Portuguese Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

Proc. 11 No.- 108
SIR :-

EMBAIXADA DE PORTUGAL WASHINGTON August 26, 1946.

With reference to Your Excellency's note of 18 May, 1946, I have the honour to inform your Excellency, under instructions, that the Portuguese Government agrees to the proposal set out in Your Excellency's note quoted above, according to which the provisions of the Commercial Arrangement between Portugal and the United States of America effected by an exchange of notes signed June 28 , 1910, shall not be understood to require extension to Portugal of advantages accorded by the United States to the Philippines, during the transitional period covered by the Philippine Trade Act approved April 30, 1946.
I avail myself of this opportunity to convey to you , Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration./.
J BIANCHI The Honourable, DEAN ACHESON
Acting Secretary of State etc., etc., etc.

61 STAT. ] TRADE, PHILIPPINES- May 4, 18, June 10, July 4, 8, 11, 1946 Aug. 15, 26, Sept. 10, Oct. 3, 7, 1946

2449

The Acting Secretary of State to the Spanish Ambassador

EXCELLENCY :

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON May 4 1946

With reference to the forthcoming independence of the Philippines on July 4, 1946, my Government considers that provision for a transi-

tional period for dealing with the special tariff position which Philippine products have occupied for many years in the United States is an essential accompaniment to Philippine independence. Accordingly, under the Philippine Trade Act approved April 30 , 1946 , goods the growth, produce or manufacture of the Philippines will enter the United States free of duty until 1954 , after which they will be subject

Entry of Philippine goods under Philip-
p1i9n46e. Trade Act of 60 Stat. 141. 22 U. S. C. § 1251
et seq.

to gradually and regularly increasing rates of duty or decreasing

duty-free quotas until 1974 when general rates will become applicable

and all preferences will be completely eliminated. Since the enactment of the Philippine Independence Act approved
March 24, 1934, my Government has foreseen the probable necessity of providing for such a transitional period and has since then con-

48 Stat. 456.
48 U. S. C. § 1232 et seg.

sistently excepted from most-favored-nation obligations which it has

undertaken toward foreign governments advantages which it might

continue to accord to Philippine products after the proclamation of Philippine independence. Some thirty instruments in force with

other governments, for example, permit the continuation of the ex-

ceptional tariff treatment now accorded by my Government to Philippine products, irrespective of the forthcoming change in the Common-

wealth's political status. With a view, therefore, to placing the relations between the United
States and Spain upon the same basis, with respect to the matters involved, as the relations existing under the treaties and agreements referred to in the preceding paragraph, I have the honor to propose

Nonextension to Spain of advantages
aPhcicloirpdpeidnebsy. U. S. to

that the provisions of the Commercial Agreement between the United States and Spain effected by an exchange of notes signed October 26 and November 7, 1927, shall not be understood to require the extension to Spain of advantages accorded by the United States to the Philippines.
In view of the imminence of the inauguration of an independent

Treaty Series 758-A.

Philippine Government, I should be glad to have the reply of Your Excellency's Government to this proposal at an early date.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
DEAN ACHESON

Acting Secretary of State His Excellency
Señor Don JUAN FRANCISCO DE CÁRDENAS ,

Ambassador of Spain.

2450

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Spanish Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

SPANISH EMBASSY WASHINGTON

No. 170

WASHINGTON, 11 de julio de 1946

SEÑOR SECRETARIO :

Con referencia a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia de fecha 4

del pasado mayo, sobre las preferencias que se concederan por parte de los Estados Unidos a las Filipinas, de acuerdo con lo establecido en la "Philippine Trade Act" del 30 de abril de 1946, tengo la honra de poner en su conocimiento que el Ministerio de Asuntos Exteriores de Madrid acaba de enviarme instrucciones para que ponga en conoci-

miento del Departamento de Estado que el Gobierno Español da su conformidad respecto a las derivaciones aduaneras con motivo de la independencia de las Filipinas.
Aprovecho esta oportunidad , Señor Secretario, para reiterarle el testimonio de mi alta consideración.
JUAN F. DE CARDENAS

Su Excelencia

Embajador de España

Señor DEAN ACHESON

Secretario de Estado Interino

Washington D.C.

SPANISH EMBASSY WASHINGTON

Translation

No. 170 MR. SECRETARY :

WASHINGTON, July 11, 1946

In reference to Your Excellency's courteous note dated May 4, last,

concerning the preferences which will be given on the part of the

United States to the Philippines, in agreement with that which is

set forth in the "Philippine Trade Act " of April 30, 1946, I have the

honor to inform you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at Madrid

has just sent me instructions to inform the Department of State that

the Spanish Government states its conformity with the effects on

customs deriving from the Independence of the Philippines. I avail myself of this opportunity, Mr. Secretary, to renew to you
the assurances of my highest consideration . JUAN F DE CARDENAS

His Excellency DEAN ACHESON,

Ambassador of Spain

Acting Secretary of State, Washington, D.C.

May 4, 18, June 10, July 4, 8, 11, 1946 61 STAT. ] TRADE, PHILIPPINES-
Aug. 15, 26, Sept. 10, Oct. 3, 7, 1946
The Acting Secretary of State to the Yugoslav Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

2451

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

SIR :

May 4 1946

With reference to the forthcoming independence of the Philippines

on July 4 , 1946, my Government considers that provision for a transi-

tional period for dealing with the special tariff position which Philip-

pine products have occupied for many years in the United States is an essential accompaniment to Philippine independence. Accordingly, under the Philippine Trade Act approved April 30, 1946, goods the growth, produce or manufacture of the Philippines will

Entry of Philippine goods under Philip-
p1i9n46e. Trade Act of 60 Stat. 141. 22 U. S. C. § 1251

enter the United States free of duty until 1954, after which they will et seq.

be subject to gradually and regularly increasing rates of duty or decreasing duty- free quotas until 1974 when general rates will become

applicable and all preferences will be completely eliminated.

Since the enactment of the Philippine Independence Act approved March 24, 1934, my Government has foreseen the probable necessity of providing for such a transitional period and has since then con-

48 Stat. 456.
48 U. S. C. § 1232 et seq.

sistently excepted from most- favored -nation obligations which it has

undertaken toward foreign governments advantages which it might

continue to accord to Philippine products after the proclamation of

Philippine independence. Some thirty instruments in force with

other governments, for example, permit the continuation of the

exceptional tariff treatment now accorded by my Government to

Philippine products , irrespective of the forthcoming change in the

Commonwealth's political status. With a view, therefore, to placing the relations between the United
States and Yugoslavia upon the same basis, with respect to the matters involved, as the relations existing under the treaties and

Nonextension to Yugoslavia of advan-
ttaogePshialcicpopridneedsb. y U.S.

agreements referred to in the preceding paragraph, my Government

proposes that the most- favored -nation provisions of the Treaty for

Facilitating and Developing Commercial Relations between the United States and Yugoslavia signed October 2/14 , 1881 , shall not

22 Stat. 963.

be understood to require the extension to Yugoslavia of advantages

accorded by the United States to the Philippines. In view of the imminence of the inauguration of an independent

Philippine Government, I should be glad to have the reply of your Government to this proposal at an early date.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration. DEAN ACHESON

Dr. SERGIJE MAKIEDO,

Acting Secretary of State

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of Yugoslavia.

2452

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Yugoslav Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

EMBASSY OF THE FEDERAL PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA WASHINGTON
Pov. Br. 1297
SIR :

I have the honor to inform you that the Government of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia has accepted the proposal of the Government of the United States of America that the most- favored-

nation provisions of the Treaty for Facilitating and Developing Commercial Relations between the United States and Yugoslavia signed

October 2/14, 1881 , shall not be understood to require the extension

to Yugoslavia of advantages accorded by the United States to the

Philippines.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration.

WASHINGTON, October 3, 1946

S. N. KOSANOVI

The Honorable

Ambassador of Yugoslavia

the Acting Secretary of State, Washington, D.C.

61 STAT. ] NEW ZEALAND--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-DEC. 3, 1946

2453

Agreement between the United States of America and New Zealand respecting air transport services . Signed at Washington December 3, 1946; effective December 3, 1946.
AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE
GOVERNMENT OF NEW ZEALAND

December 3, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1573]

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of New Zealand ,
Desiring to conclude an Agreement for the purpose of promoting direct air services as rapidly as possible between their respective territories ,
Have accordingly appointed authorized representatives for this purpose, who have agreed as follows :-

ARTICLE I

For the purpose of this Agreement and its Annex unless the context otherwise requires :

Post, p. 2459.

(A) The term "territory" shall mean in respect of either Contracting "Territory" .

Party the land areas and territorial waters adjacent thereto under

the sovereignty, suzerainty, protection, mandate, or trusteeship of such

Party.

(B ) The term "aeronautical authorities" shall mean in the case of

"Aeronautical thorities" .

au-

New Zealand the Minister in Charge of Civil Aviation , and in the case

of the United States the Civil Aeronautics Board, and in both

cases any person or body authorized by the respective Contracting

Parties to perform the functions presently exercised by the abovementioned authorities.

(C) The term "designated airline" shall mean the air transport "Designated airline".
enterprise or enterprises which the aeronautical authorities of one

of the Contracting Parties have notified in writing to the aeronautical

authorities of the other Contracting Party as the airline designated

by the first Contracting Party in accordance with Article III of this

Agreement for the route specified in such notification. (D) The terms "airline" and "route" shall be deemed to include
"airlines" and "routes" respectively.

"Airline"; "route".

(E) The definitions contained in paragraphs ( a) , ( b ) , and ( d ) of Article 96 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944 [ 1 ] shall apply.

1 ¹ [International Civil Aviation Conference, Chicago, Illinois, November 1 to
December 7, 1944, Final Act and Related Documents, Department of State publication 2282, p. 85. ]

95347° 49- PT. III- -12

2454
"National of New Zealand".

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. ( F) The term "National of New Zealand" shall mean

"National of Australia".

(i) The Government of New Zealand or a British subject who is ordinarily resident in New Zealand or
(ii) A partnership comprised entirely of a number of such subjects or of one or more of such subjects and the Government of New Zealand or
(iii ) A corporation or association created or organized under the laws of New Zealand or of any Territory thereof and which is substantially owned and effectively controlled by the Government of New Zealand or by such subjects or by both such Government and one or more of such subjects.
(G) The term "National of Australia" shall mean

(i) The Government of Australia or a British subject who is ordinarily resident in Australia or

(ii ) A partnership comprised entirely of a number of such subjects or of one or more of such subjects and the Government of Australia or

(iii) A corporation or association created or organized under the laws of Australia or of any State or Territory thereof

and which is substantially owned and effectively controlled by the Government of Australia or by such subjects

or by both such Government and one or more of such

"National of the United States".

subjects. (H) The term "National of the United States" shall mean a citizen

52 Stat. 973. 49 U. S. C. § 401 et seq.

of the United States within the meaning of the Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938, as amended.
ARTICLE II

Post, p. 2459. Post, p. 2457.

Each Contracting Party grants to the other Contracting Party rights to the extent described in the Annex to this Agreement for the purpose of the establishment of the international air services set forth in that Annex, or as amended in accordance with Article XI of the present Agreement ( hereinafter referred to as the " agreed services" ) .

ARTICLE III

Inauguration of agreed services.

(A) The agreed services may be inaugurated immediately or at a

later date at the option of the Contracting Party to whom the rights are granted, but not before :

Post, p. 2456.

( 1 ) The Contracting Party to whom the rights have been granted shall have designated an airline for the specified route ;
(2 ) The Contracting Party which grants the rights shall have given the appropriate operating permission to the airline concerned which (subject to the provisions of paragraph ( B ) of this Article and of Article VII ) it shall do with the least possible delay.
(B) The designated airline may be required to satisfy the aeronautical authorities of the Contracting Party granting the rights that it is qualified to fulfill the conditions prescribed by or under the laws

61 STAT.1 NEW ZEALAND AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-DEC. 3, 1946

2455

and regulations normally applied by those authorities to the operations of international commercial air services.

ARTICLE IV

(A) The charges which either of the Contracting Parties may impose or permit to be imposed on the designated airline of the other Contracting Party for the use of airports and other facilities shall not be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services.
( B ) Subject to paragraph ( C ) of this Article, aircraft of the designated airline of one Contracting Party operating on the agreed services, as well as fuel, lubricating oils, and spare parts introduced into or taken on board aircraft in the territory of the second Contracting Party by or on behalf of the designated airline of the other Contracting Party and intended solely for use by the aircraft of such airline, shall be accorded with respect to customs duties, inspection fees, or other charges imposed in the territory of the second Contracting Party treatment not less favorable than that granted to national airlines engaged in international air transport or the airlines of any other nation.

Charges.

(C ) Aircraft of the designated airline of one Contracting Party operating on the agreed services on a flight to , from, or across the territory of the other Contracting Party shall be admitted temporarily free from customs duties, subject otherwise to the customs regulations of such other Contracting Party. Supplies of fuel, lubricating oils, spare parts, regular equipment, and aircraft stores retained on board

aircraft of the designated airline of one Contracting Party shall be

exempt in the territory of the other Contracting Party from customs

duties, inspection fees, or similar duties or charges, even though such

supplies be used by such aircraft on flights in that territory. ( D ) Each of the designated airlines shall have the right to use
all airports, airways, and other facilities provided by the Contracting

Right of designated airlines to use airports,
etc.

Parties for use by international air services on the specified routes. (E ) Each Contracting Party shall grant equal treatment to its own
designated airline and that of the other Contracting Party in the

Equal treatment in administration of cus-
toms, regulations, etc.

administration of its customs, immigration, quarantine, and similar

regulations.

ARTICLE V

Certificates of airworthiness, certificates of competency, and licenses issued or rendered valid by one Contracting Party and still in force shall be recognized as valid by the other Contracting Party for the purpose of operation of the agreed services. Each Contracting Party reserves the right, however, to refuse to recognize for the purpose of

Certificates of airworthiness, etc.

flight above its own territory certificates of competency and licenses granted to its own nationals by the other Contracting Party or by another State.

ARTICLE VI

(A) The laws and regulations of one Contracting Party relating

Laws and tions.

regula-

to entry into or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged in

2456

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

international air navigation or to the operation and navigation of such aircraft while within its territory shall apply to aircraft of the designated airline of the other Contracting Party.
(B) The laws and regulations of one Contracting Party relating to the entry into, sojourn in, and departure from its territory of passengers, crew, or cargo of aircraft ( such as regulations relating to entry, clearance, immigration , passports, customs, and quarantine ) shall be applicable to the passengers, crew, or cargo of the aircraft of the designated airline of the other Contracting Party while in the territory of the first Contracting Party.

ARTICLE VII

Right to withhold or revoke certificates, etc.

(A) Each Contracting Party reserves the right to itself to withhold or revoke the certificate or permit of an airline designated by the other Contracting Party if it is not satisfied that substantial owner-

ship and effective control of such airline are vested in nationals of the

other Contracting Party, or in nationals of New Zealand and of

Australia with respect to an airline designated by New Zealand. Each

Contracting Party also reserves the right to itself to withhold or revoke, or impose such appropriate conditions as it may deem necessary

with respect to, any certificate or permit in case of failure by the

designated airline of the other Contracting Party to comply with the laws and regulations of the first Contracting Party or in case, in the

judgment of the first Contracting Party, there is failure to fulfill the conditions under which the rights are granted pursuant to this

Agreement. In the event of action by one Contracting Party under

Notice.

this Article the rights of the other Contracting Party under Article IX shall not be prejudiced.
(B) Prior to exercising the right conferred in paragraph ( A)

of this Article to withhold or revoke, or to impose conditions with

respect to, any certificate or permit issued to the designated airline of the other Contracting Party, the Contracting Party desiring to

exercise such right shall give notice thereof to the other Contracting Party and simultaneously to the designated airline concerned . Such

notice shall state the basis of the proposed action and shall afford opportunity to the other Contracting Party to consult in regard thereto.

Any revocation or imposition of conditions shall become effective on the date specified in such notice (which shall not be less than one calendar month after the date on which the notice would in the

ordinary course of transmission be received by the Contracting Party

to whom it is addressed ) unless the notice is withdrawn before such date.

ARTICLE VIII

Collaboration of authorities.

(A) In a spirit of close collaboration the aeronautical authorities

of the two Contracting Parties will consult regularly with a view

Post, p. 2459.
Failure to publish information, etc.

to assuring the observance of the principles and the implementation of the provisions outlined in this Agreement and its Annex.
(B ) In the event of the aeronautical authorities of either Contracting Party failing or ceasing to publish information in relation

61 STAT. ] NEW ZEALAND--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES -DEC. 3 , 1946

2457

to the agreed services on lines similar to that included in the Airline Traffic Surveys ( Station to Station and Origination and Destination) now published by the Civil Aeronautics Board and failing or ceasing to supply such data of this character as may be required by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or its successor , the aeronautical authorities of such Contracting Party shall supply, on the request of the aeronautical authorities of the other Contracting Party, such information of that nature as may be requested .

ARTICLE IX
Any dispute between the Contracting Parties relating to the interpretation or application of this Agreement or its Annex which cannot be settled through consultation shall be referred for an advisory report to the Interim Council of the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization (in accordance with the provisions of Article III, Section 6 ( 8 ) of the Interim Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944 ) or its successor, and the executive authorities of each Contracting Party will use their best efforts under the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in such report.

Disputes. 59 Stat. 1521.

ARTICLE X

This Agreement shall be registered by both Contracting Parties

Registration of agreement and contracts.

with the United Nations and shall also be registered , together with

all relative contracts, with the Provisional International Civil Avia-

tion Organization set up by the Interim Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago December 7, 1944 or its successor.

59 Stat. 1516.

ARTICLE XI
(A ) If a general multilateral air transport convention enters into force in relation to both Contracting Parties, the present Agreement shall be amended so as to conform with the provisions of such convention.
(B) Either Contracting Party may at any time request consultation with the other with a view to initiating any amendments of this Agreement or its Annex which may be desirable in the light of experience.
(C) If either of the Contracting Parties considers it desirable to modify the terms of the Annex to this Agreement, it may request consultation between the aeronautical authorities of both Contracting Parties, and such consultation shall begin within a period of sixty days from the date of the request. When these authorities agree on modifications to the Annex, these modifications will come into effect when they have been confirmed by the Contracting Parties by an exchange of notes through the diplomatic channel.

Amendments.

ARTICLE XII

It shall be open to either Contracting Party at any time to give notice to the other of its desire to terminate this Agreement. Such

Termination.

2458

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Entry into force.

notice shall be simultaneously communicated to the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or its successor. If such notice is given, this Agreement shall terminate twelve calendar months after the date of receipt of the notice by the other Contracting Party unless the notice to terminate is withdrawn by agreement before the expiry of this period. In the absence of acknowledgment by the other Contracting Party specifying an earlier date of receipt , notice shall be deemed to have been received fourteen days after the receipt of the notice by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or its successor.
ARTICLE XIII
This Agreement, including the provisions of the Annex thereof, will come into force on the day it is signed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present Agreement.
DONE in duplicate at Washington , this third day of December, 1946. FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA :
DEAN ACHESON
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW ZEALAND : C. A. BERENDSEN JOHN S. REID

61 STAT. ] NEW ZEALAND-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- DEC. 3, 1946 ANNEX

2459

SECTION I

The airline of the United States of America designated pursuant to

U. S. rights of transit and stop in New

the present Agreement is accorded rights of transit and of stop for Zealand.

non-traffic purposes in the territory of New Zealand , as well as the

right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers , cargo, and mail at Auckland , on the following route :

The United States via Honolulu, Canton Island, the Fiji Islands, New Caledonia ( optional ) , to Auckland ; in both directions.

This service shall terminate at Auckland .

SECTION II

The airline of New Zealand designated pursuant to the present Agreement is accorded rights of transit and of stop for non-traffic purposes in the territory of the United States of America, as well as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers, cargo, and mail at Honolulu and San Francisco , on the following route :

New Zealand rights
of transit and stop in U.S.

New Zealand via the Fiji Islands, Canton Island , Honolulu , to San Francisco, and (optional ) beyond to Vancouver ; in both directions.
SECTION III

It is agreed between the Contracting Parties :

General objectives.

(A) That the two Governments desire to foster and encourage the

Encouragement air travel.

of

widest possible distribution of the benefits of air travel for the gen-

eral good of mankind at the cheapest rates consistent with sound

economic principles, and desire to stimulate international air travel as

a means of promoting friendly understanding and good will among

peoples and insuring as well the many indirect benefits of this new

form of transportation to the common welfare of both countries. ( B) The designated airlines of the two Contracting Parties operat-
ing on the routes described in this Annex shall enjoy fair and equal

foEr qoupaelratoipopnorotfusneirtvyices.

opportunity for the operation of the agreed services. If the desig-

nated airline of one Contracting Party is temporarily unable, as a re-

sult of the war or for reasons within the control of the other Contract-

ing Party, to take advantage of such opportunity, the Contracting Parties shall review the situation with the object of assisting the said airline to take full advantage of the fair and equal opportunity to participate in the agreed services.

(C ) That in the operation by the designated airline of either Contracting Party of the trunk services described in the present An-

nex, the interests of any airline of the other Contracting Party shall be taken into consideration so as not to affect unduly the services which the latter provides on all or part of the same route.

( D) That the total air transport services offered by the designated airlines of the two Contracting Parties over the routes specified in

2460

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Provision of ade quate capacity.

this Annex shall bear a close relationship to the requirements of the public for such services.
( E ) That the services provided by each designated airline under this Agreement and its Annex shall retain as their primary objective the provision of capacity adequate to the traffic demands between the

country which designates such airline and the country of ultimate des-

tination of the traffic. The right to embark or disembark on such serv-

ices international traffic destined for and coming from third countries

at a point or points on the route specified in the Annex to this Agree-

ment shall be applied in accordance with the general principles of orderly development to which both Governments subscribe and shall

be subject to the general principle that capacity should be related :

(a) to traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination ;

(b) to the requirements of through airline operation ; and (c) to the traffic requirements of the area through which the
airline passes after taking account of local and regional services .

SECTION IV

Determination of

rates.

(A) The determination of rates in accordance with the following

paragraphs shall be made at reasonable levels, due regard being paid

to all relevant factors, such as cost of operation , reasonable profit, and

the rates charged by any other airline, as well as the characteristics of each service.

Approval of rates.

( B) The rates to be charged by the designated airline of either

Contracting Party between points in the territory of the United States

and points in New Zealand territory referred to in this Annex, shall,

consistent with the provisions of the present Agreement and its Annex,

be subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of the Con-

tracting Parties, who shall act in accordance with their obligations

"LATA".

under the present Agreement and its Annex, within their respective constitutional powers and obligations.
(C) The Civil Aeronautics Board of the United States having ap-

proved the traffic conference machinery of the International Air Trans-

port Association (hereinafter called "IATA" ) , for a period of one

year beginning in February 1946 , any rate agreements concluded

through this machinery during this period and involving any United

Filing of proposed new rates.

States airline will be subject to approval by the Board. (D ) Any new rate proposed by the designated airline of either
Contracting Party shall be filed with the aeronautical authorities of

both Contracting Parties at least thirty days before the proposed date of introduction ; provided that this period of thirty days may be re-

duced in particular cases if so agreed by the aeronautical authorities

of both Contracting Parties.

(E) The Contracting Parties agree that the procedure described in

paragraphs ( F) , ( G ) , and ( H ) of this section shall apply

( 1 ) if, during the period of the Civil Aeronautics Board's approval of the IATA traffic conference machinery, either any specific

61 STAT. ] NEW ZEALAND-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-DEC. 3, 1946

2461

rate agreement is not approved within a reasonable time by either

Contracting Party or a conference of IATA is unable to agree on a rate, or

(2) at any time no IATA machinery is applicable, or

(3) if either Contracting Party at any time withdraws or fails to renew its approval of that part of the IATA traffic conference

machinery relevant to this provision.
(F) In the event that power is conferred by law upon the aeronautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic rates for

Prevention of unfair or uneconomic rates.

the transport of persons and property by air on international services,

and to suspend proposed rates in a manner comparable to that in which the Civil Aeronautics Board at present is empowered to act

with respect to such rates for the transport of persons and property by air within the United States, each of the Contracting Parties shall thereafter exercise its authority in such manner as to prevent any rate

or rates proposed by its designated airline for services from the

territory of one Contracting Party to a point or points in the territory

of the other Contracting Party from becoming effective, if in the

judgment of the aeronautical authorities of the Contracting Party

whose designated airline is proposing such rate, that rate is unfair

or uneconomic.

If one of the Contracting Parties on receipt of the Notice of dissatisfaction with proposed

notification referred to in paragraph (D) above is dissatisfied with new rate.

the new rate proposed by the designated airline of the other Con-

tracting Party, it shall so notify the other Contracting Party prior to the expiry of the first fifteen of the thirty days referred to, and the Contracting Parties shall endeavor to reach agreement on the ap-

propriate rate.

In the event that such agreement is reached, each Contracting Party

will exercise its statutory powers to give effect to such agreement. If agreement has not been reached at the end of the thirty-day
period referred to in paragraph ( D) above, the proposed rate may,

pePnrdoivnigssieotntlaelmenrtatoef dispute.

unless the aeronautical authorities of the country of the airline con-

cerned see fit to suspend its application, go into effect provisionally

pending the settlement of any dispute in accordance with the procedure outlined in paragraph ( H ) below.
(G) Prior to the time when such power may be conferred by law upon the aeronautical authorities of the United States, if one of the Contracting Parties is dissatisfied with any new rate proposed by the designated airline of either Contracting Party for services from the territory of one Contracting Party to a point or points in the territory of the other Contracting Party, it shall so notify the other prior to the expiry of the first fifteen of the thirty-day period referred to in paragraph (D) above, and the Contracting Parties shall endeavor to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.
In the event that such agreement is reached , each Contracting Party will use its best efforts to cause such agreed rate to be put into effect by its designated airline.
It is recognized that if no such agreement can be reached prior to the expiry of such thirty days, the Contracting Party raising the objection

2462

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Advisory report. Round-trip rates.

to the rate may take such steps as it may consider necessary to prevent the inauguration or continuation of the service in question at the rate complained of.
( H) When in any case under paragraphs ( F) and ( G ) above the aeronautical authorities of the two Contracting Parties cannot agree within a reasonable time upon the appropriate rate after consultation initiated by the complaint of one Contracting Party concerning the proposed rate or an existing rate of the designated airline of the other Contracting Party, upon the request of either, both Contracting Parties shall submit the question to the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or its successor for an advisory report , and the executive authorities of each Contracting Party will use their best efforts under the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in such report.
(I) The Executive Branch of the Government of the United States agrees to use its best efforts to secure legislation empowering the aeronautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic
rates for the transport of persons and property by air on international services, and to suspend proposed rates in a manner comparable to that in which the Civil Aeronautics Board at present is empowered to act with respect to such rates for the transport of persons and property by air within the United States.
(J) In this Annex references to rates between a point in the territory of one Contracting Party and a point in the territory of the other Contracting Party shall be deemed to include round-trip rates for a journey from the territory of the first mentioned Contracting Party to the territory of the second mentioned Contracting Party and back to the territory of the first mentioned Contracting Party.

SECTION V

Determination of
rates over segment of It is recognized that the determination of rates to be charged by an route.
airline of one Contracting Party over a segment of the specified route,

which segment lies between the territories of the other Contracting

Party and a third country, is a complex question the overall solution of which cannot be sought through consultation between only the two

Contracting Parties. Pending the acceptance by both Contracting

Parties of any multilateral agreement or recommendations with re-

spect to such rates, the rates to be charged by the designated airlines

of the two Contracting Parties over the route segment involved shall

be set in the first instance by agreement between such airlines operating over such route segment, subject to the approval of the aeronautical

authorities of the two Contracting Parties. In case such designated

airlines can not reach agreement or in case the aeronautical authorities

of both Contracting Parties do not approve any rates set by such air-

lines, the question shall become the subject of consultation between the

aeronautical authorities of the two Contracting Parties. In consider-

Ante, p. 2459.

ing such rates the aeronautical authorities shall have regard particularly to subparagraph ( C ) of Section III of this Annex and to the

desire of both Contracting Parties to foster and encourage the develop-

61 STAT. ] NEW ZEALAND--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- DEC. 3, 1946

2463

ment of efficient and economically sound trunk air services by the designated airlines over the specified routes and the development of efficient and economically sound regional air services along and in areas adjacent to the specified routes. If the aeronautical authorities can not reach agreement the matter shall be referred for an advisory report to the Interim Council of the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or its successor, and the executive authorities of each Contracting Party shall use their best efforts under the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in such report. Pending determination of the rates in the manner herein provided , the rates to be charged over the particular route segment or segments involved shall be as fixed by the aeronautical authorities of the Contracting Party whose territory is on the segment or segments involved , provided that no discrimination is made between the rates to be charged by the designated airlines of the two Contracting Parties. After any rate has been agreed to in accordance with the procedure described in this Section, such rate shall remain in effect until changed in accordance with this procedure.

SECTION VI

After the present Agreement comes into force the aeronautical authorities of both Contracting Parties will exchange information as promptly as possible concerning the authorizations extended to their

Exchange of information concerning authorizations .

respective designated airline to render service to, through, and from

the territory of the other Contracting Party. This will include copies of current certificates and authorizations for service on the routes

which are the subject of this Agreement and, for the future, such new

certificates and authorizations as may be issued together with amend-

ments, exemption orders, and authorized service patterns.

2464

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

December 3, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1574]

Agreement between the United States of America and Australia respecting air transport services . Signed at Washington December 3, 1946; effective December 3, 1946.

AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia,
Desiring to conclude an Agreement for the purpose of promoting direct air services as rapidly as possible between their respective territories ,
Have accordingly appointed authorized representatives for this purpose, who have agreed as follows :-

ARTICLE I

Post, p. 2470.

For the purpose of this Agreement and its Annex unless the context otherwise requires :

"Territory" .

(A) The term "territory" shall have the meaning assigned to it

by Article 2 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation signed

at Chicago on December 7, 1944. [ ¹ ]

"Aeronautical authorities" .

(B) The term "aeronautical authorities" shall mean in the case of

Australia the Director- General of Civil Aviation, and in the case of

the United States the Civil Aeronautics Board , and in both cases any

person or body authorized by the respective Contracting Parties to

"Designated airline" .

perform the functions presently exercised by the above-mentioned authorities.
(C) The term "designated airline" shall mean the air transport enterprise or enterprises which the aeronautical authorities of one of the

"Airline"; "route".

Contracting Parties have notified in writing to the aeronautical authorities of the other Contracting Party as the airline designated by the first Contracting Party in accordance with Article III of this Agreement for the route specified in such notification.
(D) The terms "airline" and " route" shall be deemed to include "airlines" and "routes" respectively.

( E) The definitions contained in paragraphs ( a) , ( b) , and ( d ) of Article 96 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944 [ 2 ] shall apply.

¹ [International Civil Aviation Conference, Chicago, Illinois, November 1 to December 7, 1944 , Final Act and Related Documents , Department of State publication 2282, p. 59. ]
[Ibid., p. 85. ]

61 STAT. ] AUSTRALIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-DEC. 3, 1946 (F ) The term "National of Australia" shall mean

2465
"National of Australia" .

(i ) The Government of Australia or a British subject who is ordinarily resident in Australia or
(ii) A partnership comprised entirely of a number of such subjects or of one or more of such subjects and the Government of Australia or

(iii) A corporation or association created or organized under

the laws of Australia or of any State or Territory thereof

and which is substantially owned and effectively con-

trolled by the Government of Australia or by such subjects

or by both such Government and one or more of such

subjects . (G ) The term "National of New Zealand " shall mean

"National of New Zealand".

(i) The Government of New Zealand or a British subject who is ordinarily resident in New Zealand or
(ii) A partnership comprised entirely of a number of such subjects or of one or more of such subjects and the Government of New Zealand or

(iii ) A corporation or association created or organized under

the laws of New Zealand or of any Territory thereof and

which is substantially owned and effectively controlled

by the Government of New Zealand or by such subjects or

by both such Government and one or more of such subjects.

citizen "National of the

(H ) The term "National of the United States" shall mean a

United States".

of the United States within the meaning of the Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938 , as amended.
ARTICLE II

52 Stat. 973.
49 U. S. C. § 401 et seq.

Each Contracting Party grants to the other Contracting Party rights to the extent described in the Annex to this Agreement for the purpose of the establishment of the international air services set forth in that Annex, or as amended in accordance with Article XI of the present Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the "agreed services ") .

Post, p. 2470. Post, p. 2468.

ARTICLE III

(A) The agreed services may be inaugurated immediately or at a later date at the option of the Contracting Party to whom the rights are granted, but not before :

Inauguration of agreed services.

(1 ) The Contracting Party to whom the rights have been granted shall have designated an airline for the specified route ;
(2) The Contracting Party which grants the rights shall have given the appropriate operating permission to the airline concerned which (subject to the provisions of paragraph ( B ) of this Article and of Article VII ) it shall do with the least possible delay.

Post, p. 2467.

(B) The designated airline may be required to satisfy the aeronautical authorities of the Contracting Party granting the rights that it is qualified to fulfill the conditions prescribed by or under the laws

2466

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

and regulations normally applied by those authorities to the operations of international commercial air services.

ARTICLE IV

Charges.

(A) The charges which either of the Contracting Parties may impose or permit to be imposed on the designated airline of the other Contracting Party for the use of airports and other facilities shall not
be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services.
(B) Subject to paragraph ( C ) of this Article, aircraft of the designated airline of one Contracting Party operating on the agreed services, as well as fuel, lubricating oils, and spare parts introduced into or taken on board aircraft in the territory of the second Contracting Party by or on behalf of the designated airline of the other Contracting Party and intended solely for use by the aircraft of such airline, shall be accorded with respect to customs duties , inspection fees, or other charges imposed in the territory of the second Contracting Party treatment not less favorable than that granted to national airlines engaged in international air transport or the airlines of the most favored nation.

( C ) Aircraft of the designated airline of one Contracting Party operating on the agreed services on a flight to, from, or across the territory of the other Contracting Party shall be admitted temporarily free from customs duties, subject otherwise to the customs regulations of such other Contracting Party. Supplies of fuel , lubricating oils, spare parts, regular equipment, and aircraft stores retained on board aircraft of the designated airline of one Contracting

Party shall be exempt in the territory of the other Contracting Party

from customs duties, inspection fees, or similar duties or charges, even

though such supplies be used by such aircraft on flights in that

Right of designated airlines to use airports, etc.

territory. (D ) Each of the designated airlines shall have the right to use all
airports, airways, and other facilities provided by the Contracting

Equal treatment in administration of cus-
toms regulations, etc.

Parties for use by international air services on the specified routes. ( E) Each Contracting Party shall grant equal treatment to its own
designated airline and that of the other Contracting Party in the

administration of its customs, immigration , quarantine, and similar

regulations .

ARTICLE V

Certificates of airworthiness, etc.

Certificates of airworthiness , certificates of competency, and licenses issued or rendered valid by one Contracting Party and still in force shall be recognized as valid by the other Contracting Party for the

purpose of operation of the agreed services. Each Contracting Party reserves the right, however, to refuse to recognize for the purpose of flight above its own territory certificates of competency and licenses granted to its own nationals by the other Contracting Party or by another State.

61 STAT.] AUSTRALIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- DEC. 3, 1946

2467

ARTICLE VI Laws and regula-
(A ) The laws and regulations of one Contracting Party relating tions. to entry into or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged in international air navigation or to the operation and navigation of such aircraft while within its territory shall apply to aircraft of the designated airline of the other Contracting Party.
(B) The laws and regulations of one Contracting Party relating to the entry into, sojourn in, and departure from its territory of passengers, crew, or cargo of aircraft ( such as regulations relating to entry, clearance, immigration , passports, customs, and quarantine ) shall be applicable to the passengers, crew, or cargo of the aircraft of the designated airline of the other Contracting Party while in the territory of the first Contracting Party.

ARTICLE VII

(A) Each Contracting Party reserves the right to itself to withhold or revoke the certificate or permit of an airline designated by the other Contracting Party if it is not satisfied that substantial ownership and effective control of such airline are vested in nationals of the other Contracting Party, or in nationals of Australia and of New Zealand with respect to an airline designated by Australia . Each Contracting Party also reserves the right to itself to withhold or

Right to withhold or revoke certificates,
etc.

revoke, or impose such appropriate conditions as it may deem necessary with respect to, any certificate or permit in case of failure by the

designated airline of the other Contracting Party to comply with the laws and regulations of the first Contracting Party or in case, in the judgment of the first Contracting Party, there is failure to fulfill the conditions under which the rights are granted pursuant to this

Agreement . In the event of action by one Contracting Party under this Article the rights of the other Contracting Party under Article IX shall not be prejudiced.
(B ) Prior to exercising the right conferred in paragraph ( A ) of this Article to withhold or revoke, or to impose conditions with respect

Notice.

to , any certificate or permit issued to the designated airline of the other

Contracting Party, the Contracting Party desiring to exercise such right shall give notice thereof to the other Contracting Party and

simultaneously to the designated airline concerned . Such notice shall

state the basis of the proposed action and shall afford opportunity to

the other Contracting Party to consult in regard thereto. Any revo-

cation or imposition of conditions shall become effective on the date

specified in such notice (which shall not be less than one calendar month after the date on which the notice would in the ordinary course

of transmission be received by the Contracting Party to whom it is

addressed ) unless the notice is withdrawn before such date.

ARTICLE VIII
Collaboration of au(A ) In a spirit of close collaboration the aeronautical authorities of thorities. the two Contracting Parties will consult regularly with a view to

2468

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Post, p. 2470.
Failure to publish information, etc.

assuring the observance of the principles and the implementation of the provisions outlined in this Agreement and its Annex.
(B ) In the event of the aeronautical authorities of either Contracting Party failing or ceasing to publish information in relation to the agreed services on lines similar to that included in the Airline Traffic Sur-

veys ( Station to Station and Origination and Destination ) now published by the Civil Aeronautics Board and failing or ceasing to supply such data of this character as may be required by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or its successor, the aeronautical authorities of such Contracting Party shall supply, on the

request of the aeronautical authorities of the other Contracting Party, such information of that nature as may be requested.

Disputes. 59 Stat. 1521.

ARTICLE IX
Any dispute between the Contracting Parties relating to the interpretation or application of this Agreement or its Annex which cannot be settled through consultation shall be referred for an advisory report to the Interim Council of the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization (in accordance with the provisions of Article III , Section 6 ( 8) of the Interim Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944) or its successor, and the executive authorities of each Contracting Party will use their best efforts under the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in such report.

ARTICLE X

Registration of agreement and con- This Agreement and all relative contracts shall be registered by
tracts. both Contracting Parties with the Provisional International Civil Avi-

59 Stat. 1516.

ation Organization set up by the Interim Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago December 7, 1944 or its successor.

Amendments.

ARTICLE XI
(A) If a general multilateral air transport convention enters into force in relation to both Contracting Parties, the present Agreement shall be amended so as to conform with the provisions of such convention.
(B ) Either Contracting Party may at any time request consultation with the other with a view to initiating any amendments of this Agreement or its Annex which may be desirable in the light of experience.
(C) If either of the Contracting Parties considers it desirable to modify the terms of the Annex to this Agreement, it may request consultation between the aeronautical authorities of both Contracting Parties, and such consultation shall begin within a period of sixty days from the date of the request. When these authorities agree on modifications to the Annex, these modifications will come into effect when they have been confirmed by the Contracting Parties by an exchange of notes through the diplomatic channel.

61 STAT. ] AUSTRALIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- DEC. 3, 1946

2469

ARTICLE XII

It shall be open to either Contracting Party at any time to give notice to the other of its desire to terminate this Agreement. Such notice shall be simultaneously communicated to the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or its successor. If such notice is given, this Agreement shall terminate twelve calendar months after the date of receipt of the notice by the other Contracting Party unless the notice to terminate is withdrawn by agreement before the expiry of this period. In the absence of acknowledgment by the other Contracting Party specifying an earlier date of receipt, notice shall be deemed to have been received fourteen days after the receipt of the notice by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or its successor.
ARTICLE XIII
This Agreement, including the provisions of the Annex thereof, will come into force on the day it is signed.

Termination . Entry into force.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned , being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present Agreement.
DONE in duplicate at Washington , this third day of December, 1946.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : DEAN ACHESON

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA : NORMAN J. O. MAKIN EDGAR C JOHNSTON

95347-49- PT. III- -13

2470

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ANNEX

SECTION I
U. S. rights oftransit The airline of the United States of America designated pursuant and stop in Australia.
to the present Agreement is accorded rights of transit and of stop for non-traffic purposes in the territory of Australia , as well as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers, cargo, and
mail at Sydney, on the following route :

The United States via Honolulu , Canton Island , the Fiji Islands, New Caledonia ( optional) , to Sydney ; in both directions.

It is agreed that, if and so long as the airport at Melbourne is used as a terminal of an international air service operated by an airline other than the designated airline of the United States of America , the designated airline of the United States of America may proceed beyond Sydney to Melbourne and may in addition enjoy at Melbourne the rights conveyed herein in respect to Sydney.

SECTION II

Australian rights of transit and stop in

The airline of Australia designated pursuant to the present Agree-

U.S.

ment is accorded rights of transit and of stop for non-traffic purposes

in the territory of the United States of America, as well as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers , cargo, and

mail at Honolulu and San Francisco, on the following route :

Australia via New Caledonia (optional) , the Fiji Islands, Canton Island, Honolulu, to San Francisco, and (optional ) beyond to Vancouver ; in both directions.

SECTION III

General objectives. It is agreed between the Contracting Parties :

Encouragement of

air travel.

(A) That the two Governments desire to foster and encourage the

widest possible distribution of the benefits of air travel for the general good of mankind at the cheapest rates consistent with sound economic

principles, and desire to stimulate international air travel as a means

of promoting friendly understanding and good will among peoples

Equal opportunity
for operation of serv ices.

and insuring as well the many indirect benefits of this new form of transportation to the common welfare of both countries.
(B) The designated airlines of the two Contracting Parties operating on the routes described in this Annex shall enjoy fair and

equal opportunity for the operation of the agreed services. If the

designated airline of one Contracting Party is temporarily unable, as a result of the war or for reasons within the control of the other

Contracting Party, to take advantage of such opportunity, the Contracting Parties shall review the situation with the object of assisting the said airline to take full advantage of the fair and equal opportunity to participate in the agreed services.
(C) That in the operation by the designated airline of either

61 STAT. ] AUSTRALIA--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-- DEC. 3, 1946

2471

Contracting Party of the trunk services described in the present

Annex, the interests of any airline of the other Contracting Party

shall be taken into consideration so as not to affect unduly the services

which the latter provides on all or part of the same route.

(D ) That the total air transport services offered by the designated

airlines of the two Contracting Parties over the routes specified in this

Annex shall bear a close relationship to the requirements of the public for such services.
( E) That the services provided by each designated airline under this Agreement and its Annex shall retain as their primary objective the provision of capacity adequate to the traffic demands between the

Provision of adequate capacity.

country which designates such airline and the country of ultimate

destination of the traffic. The right to embark or disembark on such

services international traffic destined for and coming from third

countries at a point or points on the route specified in the Annex to

this Agreement shall be applied in accordance with the general principles of orderly development to which both Governments subscribe

and shall be subject to the general principle that capacity should be related :

(a) to traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination ;

(b) to the requirements of through airline operation ; and (c) to the traffic requirements of the area through which the
airline passes after taking account of local and regional services.

SECTION IV

Determination of (A) The determination of rates in accordance with the following rates.

paragraphs shall be made at reasonable levels , due regard being paid

to all relevant factors , such as cost of operation, reasonable profit, and

the rates charged by any other airline, as well as the characteristics of each service.
(B) The rates to be charged by the designated airline of either

Approval of rates

Contracting Party between points in the territory of the United States

and points in Australian territory referred to in this Annex, shall ,

consistent with the provisions of the present Agreement and its Annex,

be subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of the Con-

tracting Parties, who shall act in accordance with their obligations under the present Agreement and its Annex, within their respective constitutional powers and obligations.
(C ) The Civil Aeronautics Board of the United States having approved the traffic conference machinery of the International Air

'IATA" .

Transport Association ( hereinafter called "IATA" ) , for a period of
one year beginning in February 1946, any rate agreements concluded
through this machinery during this period and involving any United States airline will be subject to approval by the Board.
Filing of proposed (D ) Any new rate proposed by the designated airline of either new rates.
Contracting Party shall be filed with the aeronautical authorities of
both Contracting Parties at least thirty days before the proposed date

2472

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

of introduction ; provided that this period of thirty days may be reduced in particular cases if so agreed by the aeronautical authorities of both Contracting Parties.
(E) The Contracting Parties agree that the procedure described in paragraphs ( F) , ( G) , and ( H) of this section shall apply

( 1 ) if, during the period of the Civil Aeronautics Board's ap-

proval of the IATA traffic conference machinery, either any specific rate agreement is not approved within a reasonable time by either

Contracting Party or a conference of IATA is unable to agree on a rate, or

( 2) at any time no IATA machinery is applicable, or

( 3 ) if either Contracting Party at any time withdraws or fails to renew its approval of that part of the IATA traffic conference

Prevention of unfair or uneconomic rates.

machinery relevant to this provision .
(F) In the event that power is conferred by law upon the aeronautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic rates

for the transport of persons and property by air on international

services, and to suspend proposed rates in a manner comparable to that in which the Civil Aeronautics Board at present is empowered

to act with respect to such rates for the transport of persons and prop-

erty by air within the United States, each of the Contracting Parties shall thereafter exercise its authority in such manner as to prevent any

rate or rates proposed by its designated airline for services from the

territory of one Contracting Party to a point or points in the territory

of the other Contracting Party from becoming effective, if in the

judgment of the aeronautical authorities of the Contracting Party

tiNonotiwcietohf dispsraotpiosfsaecd new rate.

whose designated airline is proposing such rate, that rate is unfair or uneconomic. If one of the Contracting Parties on receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph (D) above is dissatisfied with the new rate proposed by the designated airline of the other Contract-

ing Party, it shall so notify the other Contracting Party prior to the

expiry of the first fifteen of the thirty days referred to, and the Con-

tracting Parties shall endeavor to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.

In the event that such agreement is reached, each Contracting Party

Provisional rate pending settlement of dispute.

will exercise its statutory powers to give effect to such agreement. If agreement has not been reached at the end of the thirty- day
period referred to in paragraph ( D ) above, the proposed rate may,

unless the aeronautical authorities of the country of the airline con-

cerned see fit to suspend its application, go into effect provisionally

pending the settlement of any dispute in accordance with the pro-

cedure outlined in paragraph ( H ) below.

(G) Prior to the time when such power may be conferred by law

upon the aeronautical authorities of the United States, if one of the

Contracting Parties is dissatisfied with any new rate proposed by the designated airline of either Contracting Party for services from

the territory of one Contracting Party to a point or points in the

territory of the other Contracting Party, it shall so notify the other

prior to the expiry of the first fifteen of the thirty -day period referred

61 STAT. ] AUSTRALIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES - DEC. 3, 1946

2473

to in paragraph ( D) above, and the Contracting Parties shall endeavor to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.
In the event that such agreement is reached , each Contracting Party will use its best efforts to cause such agreed rate to be put into effect by its designated airline.
It is recognized that if no such agreement can be reached prior to the expiry of such thirty days, the Contracting Party raising the objection to the rate may take such steps as it may consider necessary to prevent the inauguration or continuation of the service in question at the rate complained of.
( H) When in any case under paragraphs ( F ) and ( G) above the aeronautical authorities of the two Contracting Parties cannot agree within a reasonable time upon the appropriate rate after consultation initiated by the complaint of one Contracting Party concerning the proposed rate or an existing rate of the designated airline of the other

Advisory report.

Contracting Party, upon the request of either, both Contracting Parties shall submit the question to the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or its successor for an advisory report, and the executive authorities of each Contracting Party will use their best efforts under the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in such report.
(I) The Executive Branch of the Government of the United States agrees to use its best efforts to secure legislation empowering the aeronautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic

rates for the transport of persons and property by air on international services, and to suspend proposed rates in a manner comparable to that in which the Civil Aeronautics Board at present is empowered to act with respect to such rates for the transport of persons and property by air within the United States.
(J) In this Annex references to rates between a point in the territory of one Contracting Party and a point in the territory of the other Contracting Party shall be deemed to include round-trip rates for journey from the territory of the first mentioned Contracting Party to the territory of the second mentioned Contracting Party and back to the territory of the first mentioned Contracting Party.
SECTION V

Round-trip rates.

It is recognized that the determination of rates to be charged by an airline of one Contracting Party over a segment of the specified route, which segment lies between the territories of the other Con-

Determination of rates over segment of
route.

tracting Party and a third country, is a complex question the overall solution of which cannot be sought through consultation between only the two Contracting Parties. Pending the acceptance by both Contracting Parties of any multilateral agreement or recommendations with respect to such rates, the rates to be charged by the designated airlines of the two Contracting Parties over the route segment involved shall be set in the first instance by agreement between such airlines operating over such route segment, subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of the two Contracting Parties. In

2474

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Ante, p. 2470.

case such designated airlines can not reach agreement or in case the aeronautical authorities of both Contracting Parties do not approve any rates set by such airlines, the question shall become the subject of consultation between the aeronautical authorities of the two Contracting Parties. In considering such rates the aeronautical authorities shall have regard particularly to subparagraph (C ) of Section III of this Annex and to the desire of both Contracting Parties to foster and encourage the development of efficient and economically sound trunk air services by the designated airlines over the specified routes and the development of efficient and economically sound regional air services along and in areas adjacent to the specified routes. If the aeronautical authorities can not reach agreement the matter shall be referred for an advisory report to the Interim Council of the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or its successor, and the executive authorities of each Contracting Party shall use their best efforts under the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in such report. Pending determination of the rates in the manner herein provided , the rates to be charged over the particular route segment or segments involved shall be as fixed by the aeronautical authorities of the Contracting Party whose territory is on the segment or segments involved, provided that no discrimination is made between the rates to be charged by the designated airlines of the two Contracting Parties. After any rate has been agreed to in accordance with the procedure described in this Section, such rate shall remain in effect until changed in accordance with this procedure.

SECTION VI

Exchange of information concerning authorizations .

After the present Agreement comes into force the aeronautical authorities of both Contracting Parties will exchange information as promptly as possible concerning the authorizations extended to their respective designated airline to render service to, through, and from the territory of the other Contracting Party. This will include copies of current certificates and authorizations for service on the routes which are the subject of this Agreement and, for the future, such new certificates and authorizations as may be issued together with amendments, exemption orders, and authorized service patterns.

61 STAT. ]

UNITED KINGDOM- GERMANY- DEC. 2, 1946

2475

Memorandum of agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom respecting the economic fusion of American and British zones of occupation in Germany. Signed December 2, 1946.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

December 2, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1575]

Representatives of the two Governments have met at Washington to discuss the questions arising out of the economic fusion of their zones of occupation in Germany. They have taken as the basis of their discussion the fact that the aim of the two Governments is to achieve the economic unity of Germany as a whole , in accordance with the agreement reached at Potsdam on 2nd August, 1945. The arrangements set out hereunder, for the United States and United Kingdom Zones, should be regarded as the first step towards the achievement of the economic unity of Germany as a whole in accordance with that agreement . The two Governments are ready at any time to enter into discussions with either of the other occupying powers with a view to the extension of these arrangements to their zones of occupation.
On this basis, agreement has been reached on the following paragraphs :-
1. Date of inception . This agreement for the economic fusion of the two zones shall take effect on 1st January, 1947 . 2. Pooling of resources. The two zones shall be treated as a single area for all economic purposes . The indigenous resources of the area and all imports into the area, including food , shall be pooled in order to produce a common standard of living. 3. German administrative agencies. The United States and United Kingdom Commanders-in-Chief are responsible for setting up under their joint control the German administrative agencies necessary to the economic unification of the two zones.
4. Agency for foreign trade. Responsibility for foreign trade will rest initially with the Joint Export-Import Agency (United States-United Kingdom ) or such other agency as may be established by the two Commanders-in-Chief. This responsibility shall be transferred to the German administrative agency for foreign trade under joint supervision to the maximum extent permitted by the restrictions existing in foreign countries at any given period . (All references in this agreement to the Joint Export-Import Agency shall apply to this agency or to any agency established by the two Commanders-in-Chief to succeed it. )
5. Basis of economic planning. The aim of the two Governments is the achievement by the end of 1949 of a self-sustaining economy for the area.

2476

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

6. Sharing offinancial responsibility. Subject to the provision of the necessary appropriations, the Governments of the United States and

the United Kingdom will become responsible on an equal basis for

costs of approved imports brought into account after 31st December,

1946 (including stocks on hand financed by the respective Govern-

ments) , insofar as those cannot be paid for from other sources, in accordance with the following provisions :-

Division of imports.

(a) For this purpose the imports of the area shall be divided into

two categories : those imports required to prevent disease and unrest (Category A) , which are financed in decreasing amounts by appropriated funds ; and those further imports (including raw materials) , however financed, which will be

Defrayal of cost of Category A imports.

required if the economic state of the area is to recover to an extent sufficient to achieve the aim laid down in paragraph 5 of this Agreement (Category B) . (b) It is the intention of the two Governments that the full cost of Category A imports shall be defrayed as soon as possible,

subject to sub- paragraph (c) below, from the proceeds of

exports. Any portion of the cost of Category A imports

which is not met by export proceeds will be defrayed by the

Use of proceeds of exports for Category B imports, etc.

two Governments in equal shares from appropriated funds. (c) The proceeds of exports from the area shall be collected by
the Joint Export-Import Agency and shall be used primarily

for the provision of Category B imports until there is a surplus

of export proceeds over the cost of these imports .

(d) In order to provide funds to procure Category B imports :-

(i) The Government of the United Kingdom will make available to the Joint Export-Import Agency the sum of $29,300,000 in settlement of the understanding reached in September, 1945, for the pooling of the proceeds of exports from the two zones in proportion to import expenditures, which shall be credited to the United States contribution.

(ii) In addition to this sum the accumulated proceeds of exports from the United States Zone (estimated at $ 14,500,000) , will be made available to the Joint ExportImport Agency for the purchase of Category B imports.
(iii) The Government of the United Kingdom will provide Category B goods at the request of the Joint ExportImport Agency to a value equal to that of the United

Post, p. 3191.

States contribution under sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) above. (iv) The Governments of the United States and the United
Kingdom will make available to the Joint Export- Import Agency in like amounts their respective shares of the sum to be used for financing purchases of essential commodities for the German economy under the provisions , and upon ratification by the Government of Sweden, of the accord dated 18th July, 1946, between the Governments of the United States, the United Kingdom and France on the one hand and of Sweden on the other.

61 STAT. ]

UNITED KINGDOM GERMANY- DEC. 2, 1946

2477

(v) Any further sums which are agreed by the Joint ExportImport Agency to be required for the purchase of Category

B imports shall be provided by the two Governments on

an equal basis in such manner as they may agree. To the extent that either Government advances sums for the

purchase of raw materials for processing and re-export on

special terms as regards security and repayment, the other

Government may advance equal sums on similar terms .

(e)

The costs incurred by the two Governments for their two

Recovery of costs from future German

zones before 1st January, 1947 , and for the area thereafter, exports.

shall be recovered from future German exports in the shortest practicable time consistent with the rebuilding of the German economy on healthy non-aggressive lines .

7. Relaxation of barriers to trade. With a view to facilitating the expansion of German exports, barriers in the way of trade with Germany should be removed as rapidly as world conditions permit . To the same end the establishment of an exchange value for the mark should be undertaken as soon as this is practicable ; financial reform should be effected in Germany at an early date ; and the exchange of full technical and business communications between Germany and other countries should be facilitated as soon as possible. Potential buyers of German goods should be provided access to both zones to the full extent that facilities permit, and normal business channels should be restored as soon as possible.
8. Procurement. The determination of import requirements shall be the responsibility of the Joint Export-Import Agency. The procurement of these requirements shall be dealt with as follows:-

(i) Procurement of Category A imports to the extent that they are financed from appropriated funds of either Government shall be the responsibility of that Government.
(ii) Procurement of Category B imports and of Category A imports to the extent that they are not financed by appropriated funds shall be the responsibility of the Joint Export-Import Agency, with such assistance from the two Governments as may be desired .
Unless otherwise agreed, subject to the provisions of this paragraph, procurement shall be from the most economical source of supply. However, the sources shall be selected to the fullest extent practicable so as to minimise the drain on the dollar resources of the United Kingdom .
Establishment of The two Governments will establish a joint committee in Wash- joint committee. ington with the following responsibilities : -
(a) In the case of commodities in short supply, to support the requirements of the Joint Export-Import Agency before the appropriate authorities.
(b) To determine, where necessary, sources of supply and to designate procurement agencies having regard to the financial

2478

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

responsibilities and exchange resources of the two Governments .

With respect to sub-paragraph (a) above, the two Governments agree to assist the committee in obtaining the requirements of the Joint Export-Import Agency having regard to all other legitimate claims on available world supply.

With respect to sub-paragraph (b) above, where the financial responsibility rests with one Government, and the designated source of supply is the territory under the authority of the other Government, the latter, if so requested , will accept responsibility for procuring those supplies as agent for the former.

9. Currency and banking arrangements. The Bipartite Finance Committee (United States-United Kingdom ) will be authorized to open accounts with approved banks of the countries in which the Joint Export-Import Agency is operating, provided that agreements are negotiated with those countries for credit balances to be transferred on demand into dollars or sterling . The Bipartite Finance Committee will be authorised to accept payment of balances in either dollars or sterling, whichever, in the judgment of the Joint ExportImport Agency, may be better utilized in financing essential imports. 10. Food. The two Governments will support, to the full extent that appropriated and other funds will permit, an increase in the present ration standard to 1800 calories for the normal consumer as soon as

the world food supply permits. This standard is accepted as the minimum which will support a reasonable economic recovery in Germany. However, in view of the current world food supply, a ration standard of 1550 calories for the normal consumer must be accepted at present.

11. Imports for displaced persons . Subject to any international arrangements which may subsequently be made for the maintenance of displaced persons, the maintenance of displaced persons within both zones from the German economy shall not exceed the maintenance of German citizens from this economy. Supplementary rations and other benefits which may be provided for displaced persons in excess of those available to German citizens must be brought in to Germany without cost to the German economy . 12. Duration. It is the intention of the two Governments that this

agreement shall govern their mutual arrangements for the economic

administration of the area pending agreement for the treatment of

Germany as an economic unit or until amended by mutual agreement.

It shall be reviewed at yearly intervals.

JAMES F BYRNES

ERNEST BEVIN

2nd December, 1946.

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- NOV. 16, 1946

2479

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines respecting air transport services. Signed at Manila November 16, 1946; effective November 16, 1946.

November 16, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1577]

AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

Having in mind the resolution signed under date of December 7, 1944 , at the International Civil Aviation Conference in Chicago, [ ] for the adoption of a standard form of agreement for air routes and services, and the desirability of mutually stimulating and promoting the further development of air transportation between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines, the two Governments parties to this arrangement agree that the establishment and development of air transport services between their respective territories shall be governed by the following provisions :

ARTICLE I

Each contracting party grants to the other contracting party the rights as specified in the Annex hereto necessary for establishing the international civil air routes and services therein described , whether such services be inaugurated immediately or at a later date at the option of the contracting party to whom the rights are granted.

Rights. Post, p. 2483.

ARTICLE II

Each of the air services so described shall be placed in operation

Inauguration of air services.

as soon as the contracting party to whom the rights have been granted

by Article I to designate an airline or airlines for the route concerned has authorized an airline for such route, and the contracting party granting the rights shall, subject to Article VII hereof, be bound to

Post, p. 2481.

give the appropriate operating permission to the airline or airlines

concerned ; provided that any airline so designated may be required. to qualify before the competent aeronautical authorities of the con-

tracting party granting the rights under the laws and regulations

normally applied by these authorities before being permitted to

engage in the operations contemplated by this Agreement ; and provided that in areas of hostilities or of military occupation, or in areas

¹ [International Civil Aviation Conference, Chicago, Illinois, November 1 to December 7, 1944, Final Act and Related Documents, Department of State publication 2282. ]

2480

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

affected thereby, such inauguration shall be subject to the approval of the competent military authorities.

ARTICLE III

Continuance of previously granted operating rights.

Operating rights which the Philippine Government may have heretofore granted to any United States air transport enterprise shall continue in force in accordance with their terms, except for any provisions included in such operating rights which would prevent any airline designated under Article II above from operating under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV

Prevention of discriminatory practices, In order to prevent discriminatory practices and to assure equality
etc. of treatment, both contracting parties agree that :

Post, p. 2483.

(a) Each of the contracting parties may impose or permit to be imposed just and reasonable charges for the use of public airports and other facilities under its control. Each of the contracting parties agrees, however, that these charges shall not be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services.
(b) Fuel, lubricating oils and spare parts introduced into the territory of one contracting party by the other contracting party or its nationals, and intended solely for use by aircraft of such other contracting party shall, with respect to the imposition of customs duties, inspection fees or other national duties or charges by the contracting party whose territory is entered, be accorded the same treatment as that applying to national airlines and to airlines of the most-favorednation.
( c ) The fuel, lubricating oils, spare parts, regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board civil aircraft of the airlines of one
contracting party authorized to operate the routes and services described in the Annex shall, upon arriving in or leaving the territory of the other contracting party, be exempt from customs, inspection fees or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used or consumed by such aircraft on flights in that territory.

ARTICLE V

Certificates of airworthiness, etc.

Certificates of airworthiness, certificates of competency and licenses

issued or rendered valid by one contracting party shall be recognized

as valid by the other contracting party for the purpose of operating

the routes and services described in the Annex. Each contracting

party reserves the right, however, to refuse to recognize, for the pur-

pose of flight above its own territory, certificates of competency and

licenses granted to its own nationals by another State.

ARTICLE VI

Laws and regulations.

(a) The laws and regulations of one contracting party relating to

the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-NOV. 16, 1946

2481

in international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of such aircraft while within its territory, shall be applied to the aircraft of the other contracting party, and shall be complied with by such aircraft upon entering or departing from or while within. the territory of the first party.
(b) The laws and regulations of one contracting party as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers, crew, or cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance, immigration, passports, customs, and quarantine shall be complied with by or on behalf of such passengers , crew or cargo of the other contracting party upon entrance into or departure from, or while within the territory of the first party.

ARTICLE VII

Each contracting party reserves the right to withhold or revoke the

Withholding or revocation of certificate

certificate or permit of any airline of the other party in case it is not or permit.

satisfied that substantial ownership and effective control of airlines of

the first party are vested in nationals of that party, or in case of

failure of such airline to comply with the laws of the State over which

it operates, as described in Article VI hereof, or otherwise to fulfill

the conditions under which the rights are granted in accordance with

this Agreement and its Annexes.

ARTICLE VIII

This Agreement and all contracts connected therewith shall be registered with the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization.
ARTICLE IX

Registration of agreement and contracts.

This Agreement or any of the rights for air transport services granted thereunder may be terminated by either contracting party upon giving one year's written notice to the other contracting party.

Termination.

ARTICLE X

In the event either of the contracting parties considers it desirable to modify the routes or conditions set forth in the attached Annex, it may request consultation between the competent authorities of both

Modification of Annex.

contracting parties, such consultation to begin within a period of

sixty days from the date of the request. When these authorities mutually agree on new or revised conditions affecting the Annex, their

recommendations on the matter will come into effect after they have

been confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes.

ARTICLE XI This Agreement, including the provisions of the Annex thereto, will come into force on the day it is signed. In witness whereof, the undersigned , being duly authorized by their respective Governments, have signed the present Agreement.

Entry into force.

2482

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Done in duplicate this 16th day of November, 1946 at Manila.

For the Government of the United States of America :

[SEAL]

PAUL V. MCNUTT

For the Government of the Republic of the Philippines :

[ SEAL]

ELPIDIO QUIRINO.

61 STAT.] PHILIPPINES-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- NOV. 16, 1946
ANNEX TO AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
A. Airlines of the United States of America authorized under the present Agreement are accorded the rights of transit and non-traffic stop in Philippine territory, as well as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers , cargo and mail at Manila , on the route or routes indicated below :
From the United States, via intermediate points to Manila and thence to points beyond in both directions.
B. Airlines of the Republic of the Philippines authorized under the present Agreement are accorded the rights of transit and nontraffic stop in United States territory, as well as the right to pick up and discharge international commercial traffic in passengers, cargo, and mail at Honolulu and San Francisco, on the route indicated below :
From the Philippines to San Francisco and thence to points beyond over a reasonably direct route via intermediate points in the Pacific which are United States territory, including Honolulu, in both directions.
C. In the operation of the air services authorized under this Agreement, both contracting parties agree to the following principles and objectives :
1. Fair and equal opportunity for the airlines of each contracting party to operate air services on international routes, and the creation of machinery to obviate unfair competition by unjustifiable increases of frequencies or capacity.
2. The adjustment of fifth freedom traffic with regard to :
(a) Traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination.
(b) The requirements of through airline operation , and (c ) The traffic requirements of the area through which the air-
line passes after taking account of local and regional services.

2483

2484

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

March 2 and April 3, 1944 [T. I. A. S. 1578]

Agreement between the United States of America and Peru respecting a health and sanitation program. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Lima March 2 and April 3, 1944 ; effective July 1, 1944.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs EMBASSY OF THE

No. 1707

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Lima, March 2, 1944.

EXCELLENCY :

58 Stat. 1543, 1544.

I have the honor to refer to notes exchanged between His Excellency David Dasso, Minister of Finance and Commerce of Peru, and His Excellency Sumner Welles, Under Secretary of State of the United States of America, on May 9 and May 11, 1942, relative to the cooperative program of Health and Sanitation provided for by Resolution XXX , approved at the third meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American Republics held in Rio de Janeiro in January, 1942. [ 1 ] In accordance with the notes under reference, the United States of America has contributed the sum of One Million Three

Contribution of ad-
ditional sums by U.S. and Peru.

Hundred and Fifty Thousand U. S. Dollars ( $ 1,350,000.00 ) to the cooperative health and sanitation program now being carried out in Peru.
If desired by the Government of Peru, the Government of the United States of America through the Institute of Inter- American Affairs, an agency of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American

Affairs, is prepared to contribute an additional sum of Five Hundred Thousand U. S. Dollars ($500,000.00) for the purpose of cooperating with the Government of Peru in extending the cooperative program

of health and sanitation and providing for the termination of this program within a three-year period beginning July 1 , 1944, in so far as the funds contributed by the United States of America are concerned.
It is understood that the Government of Peru will contribute a sum of soles equivalent to Five Hundred Thousand U. S. Dollars ($500,000.00) to be combined with the funds contributed by the United States of America and expended over the same three-year period for the cooperative program of health and sanitation in Peru.

The kind of work and specific projects to be undertaken and the cost thereof are to be mutually agreed to by the appropriate official of the Government of Peru and appropriate official of the Institute

1 ¹ [Department of State Bulletin , Feb. 7, 1942, p. 137. ]

61 STAT. ] PERU- HEALTH AND SANITATION PROGRAM- Mar. 2, 1944 Apr. 3, 1944

2485

of Inter-American Affairs for the Government of the United States of America.
It is understood that the funds contributed by both Governments will be expended through the special agency created within the Min-

Expenditure through special
agency.

istry of Public Health and Social Welfare by your Government, which special agency is known as the Servicio Cooperativo InterAmericano de Salud Publica. Detailed arrangements for the con-

tinuation of this special agency and the fulfillment of the program will

be effected by agreement between the appropriate official of the Gov-

ernment of Peru and the appropriate official of the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs of the United States of America.
All projects completed and property acquired in connection with the health and sanitation program shall be the property of the Government of Peru.

Ownership of projects, etc.

No project will be undertaken that will require supplies or materials the procurement of which would handicap any phase of the war effort.

I should appreciate it if Your Excellency would be so kind as to confirm to me your approval of this general proposal, with the understanding that the details of the program will be the subject of further discussion and agreement as provided for herein .
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration.
J. P. JEFFERSON PATTERSON His Excellency Doctor ALFREDO SOLF Y MURO,

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lima.

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

N° (D) . 6-3/70

LIMA, 3 de abril de 1944.

SEÑOR ENCARGADO DE NEGOCIOS :

En respuesta a la atenta nota de Vuestra Señoria N° 1707 de 2 de

marzo último, referente a la prórroga del contrato celebrado por el

Gobierno peruano en relación con el programa cooperativo de salubridad acordado en la resolución XXX de la Tercera Reunión de Can-

cilleres de las Repúblicas Americanas celebrada en Río de Janeiro en 1942, tengo a honra remitirle copia de la Resolución Suprema expedida por el Ministerio de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social, en la que se aprueba el referido contrato.
Al llevar este hecho a conocimiento de Vuestra Señoria aprovecho 95347°-49-PT. III- 14

2486

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
la oportunidad , para reiterarle las seguridades de mi mas distinguida consideración.
ALFREDO SOLF Y MURO Honorable señor
JEFFERSON PATTERSON,
Encargado de Negocios a.i. de los Estados Unidos de América. Ciudad.
COPIA
"Visto el adjunto contrato adicional celebrado entre el Gobierno peruano, representado por el Ministro de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social y el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Interamericanos, representado por el General George C. Dunham, para la prosecución de los trabajos que se efectúan de conformidad con la resolución suprema nº 1895a, de 14 de julio de 1942 ; y Estando a lo acordado ; Se resuelve : Aprobar el referido contrato adicional que consta de 9 claúsulas refrendado el 16 del mes en curso ; y en consecuencia : 1 ) - El Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos, contribuirá con cantidad no mayor de quinientos mil dollares, para continuar el trabajo en ejecución relacionado con obras de salubridad, por un periodo de tres años que se contará desde el 1º de julio del presente año. El Gobierno Peruano contribuirá para el mismo propósito, con suma equivalente a quinientos mil dollares.-Tanto el Instituto citado como el Gobierno Peruano, transferirán a la cuenta del "Servicio" las cantidades precitadas , en armadas mensuales, según se puntualiza en el contrato adicional referido ; transferencias que se anticiparán por períodos trimestrales, previa presentación al Ministerio de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social, por parte del "Servicio", de los informes mensuales de los gastos efectuados en el período trimestral anterior.2 ) - Desde el 1º de enero de 1947, el Ministerio de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social asumirá el control directo e inmediato del funcionamiento y sostenimiento del programa de salubridad de la Selva ; - pero el "Servicio" continuará hasta la terminación del contrato de 30 de junio de 1947, en la ejecución de su programa, en zonas distintas de la Selva y en las obras de los nuevos programas que pudieran ser acordados entre el Ministerio del Ramo y el Director del " Servicio ".-El mismo Instituto y el Ministerio de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social se ratifican en el contenido de las notas intercambiadas, de 7 y 11 de julio de 1942 , que constituyen el convenio original del programa cooperativo de salubrida, asi como en las notas de 10 y 31 de octubre de 1942, referentes a las obras de saneamiento de Chimbote. - 4 ) - Todo saldo de fondos transferidos a la cuenta del "Servicio" ; pero, del saldo que exista a la expiración del contrato , es decir , el 30 de junio de 1947, se podrá disponer en la forma y en el modo , que acuerden el Ministro de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social y el Director del "Servicio". - 5 ) El Director del "Servicio" y el co-Director del mismo , prepararán presupuestos administrativos previos para todas las obras del programa del "Servicio", a fin de que dichos presupuestos sean aprobados por

61 STAT. ] PERU-HEALTH AND SANITATION PROGRAM- Mar. 2, 1944 Apr. 3, 1944
resolución suprema ; debiendo rendir el "Servicio" cuenta mensual de los gastos efectuados, que se acreditarán con los comprobantes originales respectivos. - Regístrese y comuníquese. - Rúbrica del Presidente de la República. - CARVALLO" .

2487

Translation

MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND WORSHIP

N° (D) . 6-3/70

LIMA, April 3, 1944

MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES : In response to your Excellency's courteous note No. 1707 of the 2d

of last March referring to the extension of the agreement made by the Peruvian Government with relation to the cooperative sanitary program agreed upon in Resolution XXX of the Third Meeting of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American Republics, held at Rio de Janeiro in 1942 , I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the Supreme Resolution issued by the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare, in which the aforementioned agreement is approved.

Upon bringing this matter to Your Excellency's attention I avail myself of the opportunity to renew the assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
ALFREDO SOLF Y MURO

The Honorable JEFFERSON PATTERSON, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America. City.

COPY

"Having seen the attached additional agreement concluded between the Peruvian Government, represented by the Minister of Public Health and Social Welfare, and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, repre-

sented by General George C. Dunham, for the continuation of the work

that is being carried out in conformity with supreme resolution N° 1895a of July 14, 1942 ; and it being agreed upon : It is resolved : To approve the additional agreement referred to, which consists of 9

Resolution of approval.

clauses, countersigned on the 16th of the present month ; and consequently: 1 ) The Institute of Inter-American Affairs will contribute an amount not larger than five hundred thousand dollars to continue

the work in progress connected with sanitary work, for a period of three years to begin as of July 1 of the present year. The Peruvian Government will contribute for the same purpose a sum equivalent to five hundred thousand dollars. The aforementioned Institute as well as the Peruvian Government will transfer to the account of the

'Service' the aforementioned amounts, in monthly payments, as is

specified in the additional agreement referred to ; transfers will be made in advance for quarterly periods, after presentation to the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare, on the part of the ' Service',

2488

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
of the monthly reports of the expenses incurred in the preceding quarterly period.- 2 ) - Beginning on January 1 , 1947, the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare will assume direct and immediate control of the functioning and maintenance of the sanitary program of the Selva ; - but the ' Service' shall continue until the termination of the contract of June 30, 1947, the execution of its program in different zones of the Selva and in the work of the new programs which may be arranged between the Ministry in question and the Director of the 'Service'. The same Institute and the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare agree to the contents of the notes exchanged , of July 7 and 11 of 1942, which constitute the original agreement of the cooperative sanitary program, as well as the notes of October 10 and 31 , 1942 , with reference to the plan for drainage in Chimbote.- 4) - Any balance of funds will be transferred to the account of the ' Service' ; but the balance which may exist at the expiration of the contract, that is to say, on June 30, 1947 , may be disposed of in the form and manner upon which the Minister of Public Health and Social Welfare and the Director of the 'Service' may agree.-5 ) - The Director of the ' Service' and the co-Director of the same will prepare in advance administrative budgets for all the works of the program of the ' Service', in order that the said budgets may be approved by supreme resolution ; the ' Service' being required to render a monthly account of the expenses incurred which shall be corroborated by the respective original vouchers. Let it be registered and communicated. Seal of the President of the Republic.
CARVALLO"

The Executive Vice-President, The Institute of Inter- American Affairs, to the Peruvian Minister of Public Health and Social Welfare

His Excellency Dr CONSTANTINO J CARVALLO

LIMA March 11 1944

Minister of Public Health & Social Welfare Lima Peru

YOUR EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the notes exchanged between His Ex-

cellency, David Dasso, Minister of Finance and Commerce of Peru and

58 Stat. 1543, 1544.

His Excellency, Sumner Welles, Under Secretary of State of the United States of America on May 9th and May 11th, 1942 and to

the subsequent correspondence exchanged between the Institute of

Inter-American Affairs and the Ministry of Public Health and Social

Welfare on July 7th , 1942 and July 11th, 1942 and on October 10th

and October 31st, 1942 establishing in Peru a cooperative health and

sanitation program as provided for by Resolution XXX approved

at the third meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American

Proposals for additional cooperative health work.
Post, p. 2965. 61 Stat., Pt. 4, p. 3361 .

Republics held in Rio de Janeiro in January, 1942. I now have the following proposals for additional cooperative
health work to submit to your Excellency for your consideration :

61 STAT. ] PERU- HEALTH AND SANITATION PROGRAM- Mar. 2, 1944 Apr. 3, 1944
1. If desired by the Government of Peru, the Government of the United States of America, through the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, an agency of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter- American Affairs, is prepared to allocate a sum of not to exceed U.S. $ 500,000.00 for the purpose of extending the cooperative health and sanitation program being carried out by the Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Salud Pública ( hereafter referred to as the Servicio ) for a period of three years beginning July 1st , 1944 , provided the Government of Peru appropriates a like sum equivalent in Soles of U.S. $500,000.00 for the same purpose . These funds are to be employed for maintaining projects in operation, or to be placed in operation under the terms of the existing agreement ; and , insofar as funds may be available, for any such new projects as may be mutually agreed upon between the Minister of Public Health and Social Welfare, or his representative, and the Director of the Servicio .

2489
Allocation of sums by U. S. and Peru.

2. For the purpose of effectuating the objectives of this agreement, the Institute of Inter-American Affairs agrees to transfer to the account of the Servicio, the sum of U.S. $500,000.00 on the following basis :

During July 1944 During October 1944 During January 1945 During April 1945 During July 1945 During October 1945 During January 1946 During April 1946 During July 1946 During October 1946 During January 1947 During April 1947

U.S. $58,000 U.S. 58,000 U.S. 40,000 U.S. 40,000 U.S. 40,000 U.S. 40,000 U.S. 50,000 U.S. 50,000 U.S. 50,000 U.S. 50,000 U.S. 12,000 U.S. 12,000

The government of Peru will agree to transfer to the account of the Servicio the equivalent in Soles of U.S. $500 ,000.00 on the following basis :

During July During October During January During April During July During October During January During April During July During October During January During April

1944 the equivalent in

1944

19

1945

99

1945

1945

"

1945

99

1946

99

1946

99

1946

"

1946

99

1947

99

1947

99

Soles of U.S.

""

"

99

"9

99

99

19

"

99

99

"

99

99

99

99

19

19

"9

99

99

"9

"9

$ 19,275 19,275 60,000 60,000 60,000 60,000 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000 10,725 10,725

The transfer of funds according to this schedule will be made in advance of expenditures and for three months periods. Transfer of each three months allotment by the Government of Peru will be made during the month stipulated above, and on the presentation by the

2490

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Use of funds.
Amazon program . Post, p. 2965.

Servicio to the Ministry of Public Health of monthly expenditure summaries for the preceding three months period. 3. The above funds are to be used for the maintenance of the health program being carried out by the Servicio under the terms of the original agreement from the period of July 1, 1944 to December 31 , 1946. At this date the Servicio will turn over to the Ministry of Public Health for operation and maintenance, all of its Amazon program, continuing thereafter until the expiration of this extended agreement on June 30, 1947 to operate only that part of its program which is outside of the Amazon area, and such new projects that may have been mutually agreed upon under the terms of this extended agreement.

anOdblPiegrauti. ons of U. S.

4. It is understood that the Institute of Inter-American Affairs recognizes its obligation to make available a sum of not to exceed U.S. $1,000,000 and the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare will

likewise recognize its obligation to contribute such funds, personnel,

facilities and equipment as might be considered necessary for the cooperative health and sanitation program in Peru in accordance with

the terms of the letters exchanged between the Institute of Inter-

American Affairs and the Ministry of Public Health and Social Wel-

fare dated July 7th and July 11th, 1942 respectively, which constitute the original agreement for the cooperative health and sanitation

program .

In the event that any part of the funds referred to in this section

has not been expended at the termination of the original agreement

date of June 30, 1944, such funds will be transferred in their entirety

to the account of the Servicio and used for the completion of the

projects agreed upon under the terms of the original agreement . Any

of these funds remaining unexpended after the completion of the

original program will be available for use in the extended program of the Servicio.

Chimbote project. 5. It is also understood that the Institute of Inter-American Affairs

recognizes its obligation to make available for the Chimbote project a sum of not to exceed U.S. $ 350,000 which constitutes 67 percent of the total amount made available for this purpose and that the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare likewise recognizes its obligation to make available for the Chimbote project the equivalent in Soles of U.S. $172,388.00 which is 33 percent of the total made available for this project, in accordance with the terms of the letters exchanged October 10th and October 31st, 1942 , extending the original agreement referred to above.

In the event that any part of the total sum made available for the Chimbote project by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare remains unexpended when the Chimbote project is completed, such unexpended funds will

Mar. 2, 1944 61 STAT. ] PERU HEALTH AND SANITATION PROGRAM- Apr. 3, 1944

2491

be transferred to the account of the Servicio and expended for the com-

pletion of its program formulated under the original agreement. Any of these funds remaining unexpended at the completion of the original

program will be available for use in the extended program of the Servicio.

Nonreversion of 6. Any part of the funds transferred to the account of the Servicio funds.

according to the schedule outlined above, which may be unexpended at the termination of the period in which they were transferred shall continue to be available for the purpose of the general health program of the Servicio and shall not revert to either the Institute of Inter-

American Affairs or the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare.

7. The Minister of Public Health and Social Welfare or his representative of the Division of Health and Sanitation of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs in Peru, shall determine by mutual agree-

Disposition of unexpended funds.

ment, the disposition of any unexpended funds, which may remain to the credit of the Servicio on June 30th , 1947.

8. The agreements effectuated by the letters exchanged between the

Applicability of provisions of designated

Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the Ministry of Public Health agreements.

on July 7th and July 11th, 1942 and on October 10th and 31st, 1942 will remain in full force and effect for the purpose of extending the

cooperative health and sanitation program to June 30th, 1947 and

the provisions contained therein will apply during the continuation of the program. The procedures and methods established and in use

for the operation of the Servicio, under the terms of the agreements

referred to above, will continue to apply to the operation of the Servicio until the termination of this extended agreement on June

30th, 1947.

9. The Director of the Servicio and the Representative of the Minister of Public Health will prepare budgets outlining the expenditure of funds in mutually agreed upon Servicio projects for each fiscal year, and the Servicio will submit monthly summaries of expenditures to the Ministry of Public Health along with the original receipts for all

Budgets.
Submission of monthly summaries.

expenditures.

If this proposal is acceptable to Your Excellency, this letter and Your Excellency's acceptance will constitute a binding and effective agreement between the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare of Peru in accordance with the terms contained therein.
Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration. GEORGE C DUNHAM
Executive Vice-President The Institute of Inter- American Affairs

2492

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

The Peruvian Minister of Public Health and Social Welfare to the Executive Vice-President, The Institute of Inter- American Affairs

MINISTERIO DE SALUD PUBLICA Y ASISTENCIA SOCIAL

Of. No. 14

LIMA, 15 de Marzo de 1944.

Señor

GEORGE C. DUNHAM

Vice-President del Instituto

de Asuntos Inter- Americanos.

En mi poder su oficio de 11 del mes en curso en el que, en su calidad de Vice-Presidente del Instituto de Asuntos Inter- Americanos , pro-

pone un contrato adicional del celebrado con este Ministerio , aprobado por Resolución Suprema de 13 de Julio de 1942 , en ejecución del programa cooperativo de salubridad previsto en la Resolución N° XXX sancionada en la Tercera Conferencia de Ministros de Rela-

ciones Exteriores de las Repúblicas Americanas, celebrada en Rio de Janeiro en enero de 1942.

Este Ministerio ha estudiado su propuesta constante de 10 clausulas y expresa su completa conformidad con su contenido conviniendo en

continuar el Servicio Cooperativo en materia de sanidad con ese Insti-

tuto por un período de 3 años que comenzará a contarse a partir del 1°

de julio del año en curso y de acuerdo con los términos de su propuesta .

Para la debida ejecución de este convenio se expedirá en breve la

correspondiente Resolución aprobatoria.

Sírvase aceptar las expresiones de reconocimiento de este Despacho

así como las seguridades de mi consideración mas distinguida.

Dios guarde a Ud.

CONSTANTINO J. CARVALLO

Ministro de Salud Publica

y Asistencia Social.

Translation

MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL WELFARE Of. No. 14
Mr. GEORGE C. DUNHAM

LIMA, March 15, 1944.

Vice President of the Institute

of Inter-American Affairs.

I have your communication of the 11th of the current month in which, in your capacity as Vice President of the Institute of Inter-

American Affairs, you propose an agreement additional to that concluded with this Ministry, which was approved by the Supreme Reso-

lution of July 13, 1942, for the execution of the cooperative sanitary program provided for in Resolution XXX approved at the Third

Meeting of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American Repub-

lics, held at Rio de Janeiro in January 1942.

Mar. 2 , 1944 61 STAT. ] PERU-HEALTH AND SANITATION PROGRAM- Apr. 3, 1944

This Ministry has studied your proposal, consisting of 10 clauses,

and expresses its complete agreement with its contents, agreeing upon

the continuation of the Cooperative Service in the matter of sanitary conditions with your Institute for a period of 3 years, to begin as of

July 1 of the present year, and in accordance with the terms of your

proposal .

For the proper execution of this agreement there will be sent shortly

the corresponding Resolution of Approval.

Please accept the expressions of appreciation of this Office as well as the assurances of my most distinguished consideration.

May God keep you.

CONSTANTINO J. CARVALLO

Minister of Public Health and Social Welfare.

2493

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL- UNESCO- SEPT. 30, 1946

2495

Constitution of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization adopted by the United States of America and other governments. Concluded at London November 16, 1945 ; instrument of acceptance deposited by the United States of America September 30, 1946; effective November 4 , 1946.

September 30, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1580]

CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL
ORGANISATION

2496

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 Stat.

Preamble.

THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE STATES PARTIES TO THIS CONSTITUTION ON BEHALF OF THEIR PEOPLES DECLARE
that since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed ; that ignorance of each other's ways and lives has been a common cause, throughout the history of mankind , of that suspicion and mistrust between the peoples of the world through which their differences have all too often broken into war ; that the great and terrible war which has now ended was a war made possible by the denial of the democratic principles of the dignity, equality and mutual respect of men, and by the propagation , in their place, through ignorance and prejudice, of the doctrine of the inequality of men and races; that the wide diffusion of culture, and the education of humanity for justice and liberty and peace are indispensable to the dignity of man and constitute a sacred duty which all the nations must fulfill in a spirit of mutual assistance and concern ; that a peace based exclusively upon the political and economic arrangements of governments would not be a peace which could secure the unanimous , lasting and sincere support of the peoples of the world, and that the peace must therefore be founded , if it is not to fail, upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind .
FOR THESE REASONS,

the States parties to this Constitution, believing in full and equal opportunities for education for all, in the unrestricted pursuit of objective truth, and in the free exchange of ideas and knowledge, are agreed and determined to develop and to increase the means of communication between their peoples and to employ these means for the purposes of mutual understanding and a truer and more perfect knowledge of each other's lives ;
IN CONSEQUENCE WHEREOF

NaCtrieoantsioEnduocfatUinointaeld, they do hereby create the United Nations Educational, Scientific and SOcrigeanntiisfaitciaonnd.Cultural Cultural Organisation for the purpose of advancing, through the
educational and scientific and cultural relations of the peoples of the

world, the objectives of international peace and of the common wel-

59 Stat. 1031.

fare of mankind for which the United Nations Organisation was established and which its Charter proclaims.

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL-UNESCO-SEPT. 30, 1946 ARTICLE I.

2497

Purposes and Functions

1. The purpose of the Organisation is to contribute to peace and security by promoting collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture in order to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the human rights and fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world, without distinction of race, sex, language or religion, by the Charter of the United Nations.

59 Stat. 1031.

2. To realise this purpose the Organisation will:

(a) collaborate in the work of advancing the mutual knowledge and understanding of peoples, through all means of mass communication and to that end recommend such international agreements as may be necessary to promote the free flow of ideas by word and image;

(b) give fresh impulse to popular education and to the spread of culture ;

by collaborating with Members, at their request , in the development of educational activities ;

by instituting collaboration among the nations to advance the ideal of equality of educational opportunity without regard to race, sex or any distinctions, economic or social ;
by suggesting educational methods best suited to prepare the children of the world for the responsibilities of freedom ;

(c) maintain, increase and diffuse knowledge ;
by assuring the conservation and protection of the world's inheritance of books, works of art and monuments of history and science, and recommending to the nations concerned the necessary international conventions ; by encouraging cooperation among the nations in all branches of intellectual activity, including the international exchange of persons active in the fields of education, science and culture and the exchange of publications, objects of artistic and scientific interest and other materials of information ;

by initiating methods of international cooperation

calculated to give the people of all countries access to the

printed and published materials produced by any of them .
3. With a view to preserving the independence, integrity and fruitful

Nonintervention in matters within domes-

diversity of the cultures and educational systems of the States Mem- tic jurisdiction.

bers of this Organisation, the Organisation is prohibited from

intervening in matters which are essentially within their domestic

jurisdiction .

2498 Post, p. 2502.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ARTICLE II.

Membership

1. Membership of the United Nations Organisation shall carry with it the right to membership of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation.

2. Subject to the conditions of the agreement between this Organisation and the United Nations Organisation, approved pursuant to Article X of this Constitution, States not members of the United Nations Organisation may be admitted to membership of the Organisation, upon recommendation of the Executive Board, by a twothirds majority vote of the General Conference.

3. Members of the Organisation which are suspended from the

exercise of the rights and privileges of membership of the United Nations Organisation shall , upon the request of the latter, be sus-

pended from the rights and privileges of this Organisation.

4. Members of the Organisation which are expelled from the United

Nations Organisation shall automatically cease to be members of this

Organisation .

ARTICLE III.

Organs
The Organisation shall include a General Conference, an Executive Board and a Secretariat.
ARTICLE IV .

A. Composition

The General Conference

1. The General Conference shall consist of the representatives of the States Members of the Organisation . The Government of each Member State shall appoint not more than five delegates, who shall be selected after consultation with the National Commission, if established, or with educational, scientific and cultural bodies .

B. Functions

2. The General Conference shall determine the policies and the main lines of work of the Organisation . It shall take decisions on programmes drawn up by the Executive Board.
3. The General Conference shall, when it deems it desirable, summon international conferences on education, the sciences and humanities and the dissemination of knowledge.
4. The General Conference shall, in adopting proposals for submission to the Member States, distinguish between recommendations and international conventions submitted for their approval . In the former case a majority vote shall suffice ; in the latter case a two-thirds majority shall be required . Each of the Member States shall submit recommendations or conventions to its competent authorities within a period of one year from the close of the session of the General Conference at which they were adopted.

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL- UNESCO- SEPT. 30, 1946

2499

5. The General Conference shall advise the United Nations Organisation on the educational, scientific and cultural aspects of matters of concern to the latter, in accordance with the terms and procedure agreed upon between the appropriate authorities of the two Organisations .
6. The General Conference shall receive and consider the reports submitted periodically by Member States as provided by Article VIII . 7. The General Conference shall elect the members of the Executive Board and, on the recommendation of the Board, shall appoint the Director-General.

Post, p. 2501.

C. Voting
8. Each Member State shall have one vote in the General Conference. Decisions shall be made by a simple majority except in cases in which
two-thirds majority is required by the provisions of this Constitution. A majority shall be a majority of the Members present and voting.
D. Procedure
9. The General Conference shall meet annually in ordinary session ; it may meet in extraordinary session on the call of the Executive Board. At each session the location of its next session shall be designated by the General Conference and shall vary from year to year. 10. The General Conference shall , at each session , elect a President and other officers and adopt rules of procedure. 11. The General Conference shall set up special and technical committees and such other subordinate bodies as may be necessary for its purposes. 12. The General Conference shall cause arrangements to be made for public access to meetings, subject to such regulations as it shall prescribe .

E. Observers

13. The General Conference , on the recommendation of the Executive Board and by a two-thirds majority may, subject to its rules of procedure, invite as observers at specified sessions of the Conference or of its commissions representatives of international organisations , such as those referred to in Article XI, paragraph 4 .

Post, p. 2503.

A. Composition

ARTICLE V. Executive Board

1. The Executive Board shall consist of eighteen members elected by the General Conference from among the delegates appointed by the Member States, together with the President of the Conference who shall sit ex officio in an advisory capacity . 2. In electing the members of the Executive Board the General Conference shall endeavour to include persons competent in the arts, the humanities, the sciences, education and the diffusion of ideas, and qualified by their experience and capacity to fulfil the administrative

2500

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
and executive duties of the Board . It shall also have regard to the diversity of cultures and a balanced geographical distribution. Not more than one national of any Member State shall serve on the Board at any one time, the President of the Conference excepted . 3. The elected members of the Executive Board shall serve for a term of three years, and shall be immediately eligible for a second term , but shall not serve consecutively for more than two terms. At the first election eighteen members shall be elected of whom one third shall retire at the end of the first year and one third at the end of the second year, the order of retirement being determined immediately after the election by the drawing of lots . Thereafter six members shall be elected each year. 4. In the event of the death or resignation of one of its members, the Executive Board shall appoint , from among the delegates of the Member State concerned, a substitute, who shall serve until the next session of the General Conference which shall elect a member for the remainder of the term.
B. Functions
5. The Executive Board, acting under the authority of the General Conference , shall be responsible for the execution of the programme adopted by the Conference and shall prepare its agenda and programme of work. 6. The Executive Board shall recommend to the General Conference the admission of new Members to the Organisation. 7. Subject to decisions of the General Conference, the Executive Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure . It shall elect its officers from among its members. 8. The Executive Board shall meet in regular session at least twice a year and may meet in special session if convoked by the Chairman on his own initiative or upon the request of six members of the Board. 9. The Chairman of the Executive Board shall present to the General Conference, with or without comment, the annual report of the Director-General on the activities of the Organisation, which shall have been previously submitted to the Board . 10. The Executive Board shall make all necessary arrangements to consult the representatives of international organisations or qualified persons concerned with questions within its competence. 11. The members of the Executive Board shall exercise the powers delegated to them by the General Conference on behalf of the Conference as a whole and not as representatives of their respective Governments .
ARTICLE VI .
Secretariat
1. The Secretariat shall consist of a Director-General and such staff as may be required . 2. The Director-General shall be nominated by the Executive Board and appointed by the General Conference for a period of six years,

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL- UNESCO-SEPT. 30, 1946

under such conditions as the Conference may approve, and shall be eligible for re-appointment. He shall be the chief administrative officer of the Organisation . 3. The Director-General, or a deputy designated by him, shall participate, without the right to vote, in all meetings of the General Conference, of the Executive Board, and of the committees of the Organisation . He shall formulate proposals for appropriate action by the Conference and the Board.
4. The Director-General shall appoint the staff of the Secretariat in accordance with staff regulations to be approved by the General Conference . Subject to the paramount consideration of securing the highest standards of integrity, efficiency and technical competence, appointment to the staff shall be on as wide a geographical basis as possible. 5. The responsibilities of the Director-General and of the staff shall be exclusively international in character . In the discharge of their duties they shall not seek or receive instructions from any government or from any authority external to the Organisation . They shall refrain from any action which might prejudice their position as international officials. Each State Member of the Organisation undertakes to respect the international character of the responsibilities of the Director-General and the staff, and not to seek to influence them in the discharge of their duties. 6. Nothing in this Article shall preclude the Organisation from entering into special arrangements within the United Nations Organisation for common services and staff and for the interchange of personnel .

ARTICLE VII .

National Co-operating Bodies 1. Each Member State shall make such arrangements as suit its particular conditions for the purpose of associating its principal bodies interested in educational, scientific and cultural matters with the work of the Organisation , preferably by the formation of a National Commission broadly representative of the Government and such bodies ,
2. National Commissions or national co-operating bodies , where they exist, shall act in an advisory capacity to their respective delegations to the General Conference and to their Governments in matters relating to the Organisation and shall function as agencies of liaison in all matters of interest to it.
3. The Organisation may, on the request of a Member State , delegate, either temporarily or permanently, a member of its Secretariat to serve on the National Commission of that State , in order to assist in the development of its work.

ARTICLE VIII .
Reports by Member States
Each Member State shall report periodically to the Organisation, in a manner to be determined by the General Conference, on its laws,
95347-49 -PT. III-- 15

2501

2502 Ante, p. 2498.
59 Stat. 1046. 59 Stat. 1047.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
regulations and statistics relating to educational, scientific and cultural life and institutions, and on the action taken upon the recommendations and conventions referred to in Article IV, paragraph 4 .
ARTICLE IX .
Budget
1. The budget shall be administered by the Organisation . 2. The General Conference shall approve and give final effect to the budget and to the apportionment of financial responsibility among the States Members of the Organisation subject to such arrangement with the United Nations as may be provided in the agreement to be entered into pursuant to Article X. 3. The Director-General, with the approval of the Executive Board, may receive gifts, bequests, and subventions directly from governments, public and private institutions, associations and private persons .
ARTICLE X.
Relations with the United Nations Organisation
This Organisation shall be brought into relation with the United Nations Organisation, as soon as practicable, as one of the specialised agencies referred to in Article 57 of the Charter of the United Nations. This relationship shall be effected through an agreement with the United Nations Organisation under Article 63 of the Charter, which agreement shall be subject to the approval of the General Conference of this Organisation . The agreement shall provide for effective cooperation between the two Organisations in the pursuit of their common purposes, and at the same time shall recognise the autonomy of this Organisation , within the fields of its competence as defined in this Constitution. Such agreement may, among other matters, provide for the approval and financing of the budget of the Organisation by the General Assembly of the United Nations .
ARTICLE XI .
Relations with other specialized international Organisations and agencies 1. This Organisation may co-operate with other specialised intergovernmental organisations and agencies whose interests and activities are related to its purposes. To this end the Director- General , acting under the general authority of the Executive Board, may establish effective working relationships with such organisations and agencies and establish such joint committees as may be necessary to assure effective co-operation. Any formal arrangements entered into with such organisations or agencies shall be subject to the approval of the Executive Board. 2. Whenever the General Conference of this Organisation and the competent authorities of any other specialised inter-governmental organisations or agencies whose purposes and functions lie within the competence of this Organisation , deem it desirable to effect a transfer

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL-UNESCO- SEPT. 30, 1946

2503

of their resources and activities to this Organisation, the DirectorGeneral, subject to the approval of the Conference, may enter into mutually acceptable arrangements for this purpose. 3. This Organisation may make appropriate arrangements with other intergovernmental organisations for reciprocal representation at meetings . 4. The United Nations Educational , Scientific and Cultural Organisation may make suitable arrangements for consultation and co-operation with nongovernmental international organisations concerned with matters within its competence, and may invite them to undertake specific tasks . Such co-operation may also include appropriate participation by representatives of such organisations on advisory committees set up by the General Conference.

ARTICLE XII.

Legal status of the Organisation

The provisions of Articles 104 and 105 of the Charter of the United

Nations Organisation concerning the legal status of that Organisation,

its privileges and immunities shall apply in the same way to this

Organisation.

ARTICLE XIII .

59 Stat. 1053.

Amendments

1. Proposals for amendments to this Constitution shall become effective upon receiving the approval of the General Conference by a two-thirds majority ; provided , however, that those amendments which involve fundamental alterations in the aims of the Organisation or new obligations for the Member States shall require subsequent acceptance on the part of two-thirds of the Member States before they come into force . The draft texts of proposed amendments shall be communicated by the Director-General to the Member States at least six months in advance of their consideration by the General Conference .
2. The General Conference shall have power to adopt by a two-thirds majority rules of procedure for carrying out the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE XIV.

Interpretation
1. The English and French texts of this Constitution shall be regarded as equally authoritative. 2. Any question or dispute concerning the interpretation of this Constitution shall be referred for determination to the International Court of Justice or to an arbitral tribunal, as the General Conference may determine under its rules of procedure.

Authoritative texts.

2504 Post, p. 2519.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
ARTICLE XV.
Entry into force 1. This Constitution shall be subject to acceptance . The instruments of acceptance shall be deposited with the Government of the United Kingdom . 2. This Constitution shall remain open for signature in the archives of the Government of the United Kingdom. Signature may take place either before or after the deposit of the instrument of acceptance. No acceptance shall be valid unless preceded or followed by signature. 3. This Constitution shall come into force when it has been accepted by twenty of its signatories . Subsequent acceptances shall take effect immediately. 4. The Government of the United Kingdom will inform all members of the United Nations of the receipt of all instruments of acceptance and of the date on which the Constitution comes into force in accordance with the preceding paragraph.
In faith whereof, the undersigned, duly authorised to that effect, have signed this Constitution in the English and French languages , both texts being equally authentic .
Done in London the sixteenth day of November, 1945 in a single copy, in the English and French languages, of which certified copies will be communicated by the Government of the United Kingdom to the Governments of all the Members of the United Nations.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC CONRADO TRAVERSO
AUSTRALIA
BELGIUM A. BUISSERET
BOLIVIA C. SALAMANCA
BRAZIL MONIZ DE ARAGAO
THE BYELORUSSIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
CANADA VINCENT MASSEY
CHILE FRANCISCO WALKER LINARES
CHINA HU SHIH
COLOMBIA J. J. ARANGO
COSTA RICA

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL- UNESCO-SEPT. 30, 1946

CUBA LUIS MARINO PEREZ CZECHOSLOVAKIA
JAN OPOCENSKY
DENMARK ALB . MICHELSEN
THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC A. PASTORIZA

ECUADOR ALB. PUIG
EGYPT A. FATTAH . AMR
EL SALVADOR

ETHIOPIA

FRANCE

GREECE TH. AGHNIDES
GUATEMALA M. GALICH
HAITI LEON LALEAU HONDURAS

INDIA JOHN SARGENT IRAN A. A. HEKMAT
IRAQ NAJI AL ASIL LEBANON
CAMILLE CHAMOUN LIBERIA
J. W. PEARSON LUXEMBOURG
A. ALS MEXICO
J. T. BODET THE NETHERLANDS
V. D. LEEUW NEW ZEALAND

2505

2506

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
NICARAGUA ERNESTO SELVA
NORWAY NILS HJELMTVEIT
PANAMA E. A. MORALES
PARAGUAY
PERU E. LETTS THE PHILIPPINES
MAXIMO M. KALAW POLAND
BERNARD DRZEWIESKI SAUDI ARABIA
HAFIZ WAHBA SYRIA
N. ARMANAZI TURKEY
YÜCEL THE UKRAINIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

THE UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA G. HEATON NICHOLLS
THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS

THE UNITED KINGDOM OF IRELAND ELLEN WILKINSON

GREAT

BRITAIN

AND

NORTHERN

THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

URUGUAY R. E. MACEACHEN
VENEZUELA A. RODRIGUEZ ASPURUA
YUGOSLAVIA DR. LJUBO LEONTIC

Certified a true copy:

[SEAL]

D. A. BIGBY

LONDON.

Acting Librarian and Keeper ofthe

Papers at the Foreign Office.

31 Jan 1946

61 STAT.]

MULTILATERAL- UNESCO- SEPT. 30, 1946

2507

CONVENTION CREANT UNE ORGANISATION DES NATIONS
UNIES POUR L'EDUCATION, LA SCIENCE ET LA CULTURE

2508

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

LES GOUVERNEMENTS DES ETATS PARTIES A LA PRESENTE CONVENTION
AU NOM DE LEURS PEUPLES DECLARENT
que, les guerres prenant naissance dans l'esprit des hommes, c'est dans l'esprit des hommes que doivent être élevées les défenses de la paix ;
que l'incompréhension mutuelle des peuples a toujours été, au cours de l'histoire, à l'origine de la suspicion et de la méfiance entre nations par où leurs désaccords ont trop souvent dégénéré en guerre ;
que la grande et terrible guerre qui vient de finir a été rendue possible par le reniement de l'idéal démocratique de dignité, d'égalité et de respect de la personne humaine et par la volonté de lui substituer, en exploitant l'ignorance et le préjugé, le dogme de l'inégalité des races et des hommes ;
que, la dignité de l'homme exigeant la diffusion de la culture et l'éducation de tous en vue de la justice, de la liberté et de la paix, il y a là, pour toutes les nations, des devoirs sacrés à remplir dans un esprit de mutuelle assistance ;
qu'une paix fondée sur les seuls accords économiques et politiques des Gouvernements ne saurait entraîner l'adhésion unanime, durable et sincère des peuples et que , par conséquent , cette paix doit être établie sur le fondement de la solidarité intellectuelle et morale de l'humanité.
POUR CES MOTIFS
les Etats signataires de cette Convention , résolus à assurer à tous le plein et égal accès à l'éducation , la libre poursuite de la vérité objective et le libre échange des idées et des connaissances , décident de développer et de multiplier les relations entre leurs peuples , en vue de se mieux comprendre et d'acquérir une connaissance plus précise et plus vraie de leurs coutumes respectives.
EN CONSEQUENCE
ils créent par les présentes l'Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'Education , la Science et la Culture afin d'atteindre graduellement, par la coopération des Nations du monde dans les domaines de l'éducation , de la science et de la culture , les buts de paix internationale et de prospérité commune de l'humanité en vue desquels l'Organisation des Nations Unies a été constituée , et que sa Charte proclame.
ARTICLE I
Buts et Fonctions
1. L'Organisation se propose de contribuer au maintien de la paix et de la sécurité en resserrant , par l'éducation , la science et la culture, la

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL-UNESCO- SEPT. 30, 1946

collaboration entre nations, afin d'assurer le respect universel de la justice, de la loi , des droits de l'homme et des libertés fondamentales pour tous, sans distinction de race, de sexe , de langue ou de religion, que la Charte des Nations Unies reconnaît à tous les peuples .
2. A ces fins , l'Organisation :
a) favorise la connaissance et la compréhension mutuelle des nations en prêtant son concours aux organes d'information des masses ; elle recommande à cet effet tels accords internationaux qu'elle juge utiles pour faciliter la libre circulation des idées , par le mot et par l'image ;
b) imprime une impulsion vigoureuse à l'éducation populaire et à la diffusion de la culture:
en collaborant avec les Etats Membres qui le désirent pour les aider à développer leur action éducatrice ; en instituant la collaboration des nations afin de réaliser graduellement l'idéal d'une chance égale d'éducation pour tous, sans distinction de race , de sexe ni d'aucune condition économique ou sociale ; en suggérant des méthodes d'éducation convenables pour préparer les enfants du monde entier aux responsabilités de l'homme libre ; c) aide au maintien, à l'avancement et à la diffusion du savoir:
en veillant à la conservation et protection du patrimoine universel de livres , d'oeuvres d'art et d'autres monuments d'intérêt historique ou scientifique, et en recommandant aux peuples intéressés des conventions internationales à cet effet ; en encourageant la coopération entre nations dans toutes les branches de l'activité intellectuelle, l'échange international de représentants de l'éducation , de la science et de la culture ainsi que celui de publications, d'oeuvres d'art , de matériel de laboratoire et de toute documentation utile ; en facilitant par des méthodes de coopération internationale appropriées l'accès de tous les peuples à ce que chacun d'eux publie. 3. Soucieuse d'assurer aux Etats Membres de la présente Organisation l'indépendance , l'intégrité et la féconde diversité de leurs cultures et de leurs systèmes d'éducation , l'Organisation s'interdit d'intervenir en aucune matière relevant essentiellement de leur juridiction intérieure.
ARTICLE II
Membres.
1. Les Etats membres de l'Organisation des Nations Unies possèdent le droit de faire partie de l'Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'Education , la Science et la Culture. 2. Sous réserve des termes de l'accord à intervenir entre la présente Organisation et l'Organisation des Nations Unies, approuvé conformément à l'Article X de la présente Convention , les Etats non

2509

2510

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

membres de l'Organisation des Nations Unies peuvent être admis comme membres de l'Organisation sur recommandation du Conseil Exécutif, par la Conférence Générale votant à la majorité des deux tiers .
3. Les Etats membres de l'Organisation suspendus de l'exercice de leurs droits et privilèges de membres de l'Organisation des Nations Unies , seront sur la demande de cette dernière suspendus des droits et privilèges inhérents à la qualité de membre. 4. Les Etats membres de l'Organisation cessent ipso facto d'en être membres s'ils sont exclus de l'Organisation des Nations Unies .

ARTICLE III Organes .
L'Organisation comprend une Conférence générale, un Conseil exécutif et un Secrétariat .
ARTICLE IV.

A. Composition.

La Conférence générale.

1.- La Conférence générale se compose des représentants des Etats membres de l'Organisation . Le Gouvernement de chaque Etat Membre nomme au plus cinq représentants choisis après consultation avec le Comité National, s'il en existe, ou avec les institutions et corps éducatifs , scientifiques et culturels .
B. Fonctions.

2.- La Conférence générale détermine l'orientation et la ligne de conduite générale de l'Organisation . Elle se prononce sur les programmes établis par le Conseil exécutif.

3.- La Conférence générale convoque, s'il y a lieu, des conférences internationales sur l'éducation, les sciences , les humanités et la diffusion du savoir.

4.- Quand elle se prononce pour l'adoption de projets à soumettre aux Etats Membres, la Conférence générale doit distinguer entre les recommandations aux Etats Membres et les conventions interna-

tionales à ratifier par les Etats Membres . Dans le premier cas , la majorité simple suffit ; dans le second, une majorité des deux tiers est

requise. Chacun des Etats Membres soumettra les recommandations ou conventions aux autorités nationales compétentes dans le délai d'un an à partir de la clôture de la session de la Conférence générale au cours de laquelle elles auront été adoptées .
5.- La Conférence générale conseille l'Organisation des Nations Unies sur les aspects éducatifs, scientifiques et culturels des questions intéressant les Nations Unies, dans les conditions et suivant la procèdure qui auront été adoptées par les autorités compétentes des deux Organisations .

6.- La Conférence générale reçoit et examine les rapports qui lui sont soumis périodiquement par les Etats Membres , conformément à l'Article VIII.

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL- UNESCO- SEPT. 30, 1946

7.- La Conférence générale élit les membres du Conseil exécutif ; elle nomme le Directeur Général sur présentation du Conseil exécutif.
C. Vote. 8. Chaque Etat Membre dispose d'une voix à la Conférence générale . Les décisions sont prises à la majorité simple, sauf dans les cas où les dispositions de la présente Convention exigent une majorité des deux tiers . Par majorité, il faut entendre la majorité des membres présents et votant . D. Procédure.

9.- La Conférence générale se réunit chaque année en session ordinaire ; elle peut se réunir en session extraordinaire sur convocation du Conseil exécutif. Au cours de chaque session la Conférence fixe le siège de la session suivante ; ce siège change chaque année.
10. - La Conférence générale, à chaque session , élit son président et son bureau et adopte son règlement intérieur.
11. - La Conférence générale crée les commissions tant spéciales que techniques et autres organismes subsidiaires qui peuvent être nécessaires à l'exécution de sa tâche.
12. - Des dispositions seront prises pour que le public puisse assister aux délibérations, sous réserve des dispositions du règlement intérieur.
E. Observateurs .

13. - La Conférence générale, votant à la majorité des deux tiers, sur la recommandation du Conseil exécutif, et sous réserve du règlement intérieur, peut inviter comme observateurs à des sessions déterminées de la Conférence ou de ses commissions, des représentants d'organisations internationales, notamment de celles qui sont visées à l'article XI, paragraphe 4.
ARTICLE V

A. Composition.

Conseil exécutif.

1.- Le Conseil exécutif est composé de dix huit membres élus par

la Conférence générale parmi les délégués nommés par les Etats

Membres ainsi que du Président de la Conférence qui siège ès-qualité avec voix consultative.

2.- En procédant à l'élection des membres du Conseil exécutif, la Conférence générale s'efforcera d'y faire figurer des personnalités compétentes dans le domaine des arts, des lettres , des sciences , de l'éducation et de la diffusion de la pensée, et ayant l'expérience et la compétence nécessaires pour remplir les fonctions administratives et exécutives qui incombent au Conseil . Elle tiendra compte également de la diversité des cultures et d'une répartition géographique équitable. Il ne pourra jamais y avoir en même temps au Conseil exécutif plus d'un ressortissant d'un même Etat Membre, le Président de la Conférence n'entrant pas en compte.
3.- Les membres élus du Conseil exécutif conservent leurs fonctions pendant une durée de trois ans ; ils sont immédiatement rééligibles pour un second mandat, mais ils ne peuvent siéger plus de deux termes consécutifs. A la première élection , dix huit membres seront élus parmi lesquels un tiers se retirera à l'expiration de la première année

2511

2512

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

de mandat et un tiers à l'expiration de la deuxième, l'ordre de sortie étant déterminé par tirage au sort immédiatement après l'élection. Par la suite, six membres seront élus chaque année.
4.- En cas de décès ou de démission d'un des membres , le Conseil exécutif désigne parmi les délégués de l'Etat Membre intéressé , un suppléant qui siègera jusqu'à la plus prochaine session de la Conférence générale, laquelle élira un titulaire pour la portion du mandat restant à courir.
B. Fonctions.

5. Le Conseil exécutif, agissant sous l'autorité de la Conférence

générale, est responsable devant elle de l'exécution du programme adopté par la Conférence. Il prépare l'ordre du jour des réunions de

la Conférence et le programme de travail qui est soumis à celle-ci . 6. Le Conseil exécutif recommande à la Conférence générale
l'admission de nouveaux Membres dans l'Organisation .

7. - Sous réserve des décisions de la Conférence générale, le Conseil

exécutif établit son règlement intérieur. Il élit, parmi ses membres , son bureau.
8. - Le Conseil exécutif se réunit en session ordinaire au moins deux

fois par an ; il peut se réunir en session extraordinaire sur convocation

de son Président à l'initiative de celui-ci , ou à la demande de six membres du Conseil.
9. Le Président du Conseil exécutif présente à la Conférence
générale, avec ou sans commentaires, le rapport annuel du Directeur

Général sur l'activité de l'Organisation , préalablement soumis au Conseil .
10.  Le Conseil exécutif prend toutes dispositions utiles pour consulter les représentants des organismes internationaux ou les personnalités qualifiées qui s'occupent de questions relevant de sa compétence.

11. - Les membres du Conseil exécutif exercent les pouvoirs qui leur sont délégués par la Conférence générale, au nom de la Conférence tout entière et non comme représentants de leurs gouvernements

respectifs .

ARTICLE VI

Secrétariat.

1. - Le Secrétariat se compose d'un Directeur Général et du personnel reconnu nécessaire .
2. Le Directeur Général est proposé par le Conseil exécutif et nommé par la Conférence générale pour une période de six ans , aux conditions qui seront approuvées par la Conférence . Sa nomination est renouvelable. Le Directeur Général est le plus haut fonctionnaire de l'Organisation.
3. - Le Directeur Général ou , à son défaut, le remplaçant qu'il aura désigné, prend part, sans droit de vote, à toutes les réunions de la Conférence générale , du Conseil exécutif et des commissions de l'Organisation. Il formule des propositions en vue des mesures à prendre par la Conférence et le Conseil.

61 STAT.]

MULTILATERAL - UNESCO- SEPT. 30, 1946

4.- Le Directeur Général nomme le personnel du Secrétariat conformément au statut du personnel qui devra être soumis à l'approbation de la Conférence générale. Sous réserve de réunir les plus hautes qualités d'intégrité, d'efficacité et de compétence technique, le personnel devra être recruté sur une base géographique aussi large que possible.
5. -- Les responsabilités du Directeur Général et du personnel ont un caractère exclusivement international. Dans l'accomplissement de leurs devoirs , ils ne demanderont ni ne recevront d'instructions d'aucun Gouvernement ni d'aucune autorité étrangère à l'Organisation. Ils s'abstiendront de tout acte de nature à compromettre leur situation de fonctionnaires internationaux. Tous les Etats membres de l'Organisation s'engagent à respecter le caractère international des fonctions du Directeur Général et du personnel et à ne pas chercher à les influencer dans l'accomplissement de leur tâche.
6. - Aucune des dispositions de cet article ne saurait empêcher l'Organisation de passer, dans le cadre de l'Organisation des Nations Unies, des accords spéciaux pour la constitution de services communs et le recrutement de personnel commun ainsi que pour l'échange de personnel .
ARTICLE VII
Comités nationaux de coopération.
1.- Chaque Etat Membre prendra les dispositions appropriées à sa situation particulière pour associer aux travaux de l'Organisation les principaux groupes nationaux qui s'intéressent aux problèmes d'éducation, de recherche scientifique et de culture, de préférence en constituant une Commission nationale où seront représentés le Gouvernement et ces différents groupes.
2. Dans les pays où il en existe les Commissions nationales ou les organismes nationaux de coopération remplissent un rôle consultatif auprès de leur Délégation nationale à la Conférence générale et auprès de leur Gouvernement pour tous les problèmes se rapportant à l'Organisation . Ils jouent le rôle d'organe de liaison pour toutes les questions qui intéressent l'Organisation .
3. -Sur la demande d'un Etat Membre, l'Organisation peut déléguer, à titre temporaire ou permanent, auprès de la Commission nationale de cet Etat, un membre de son Secrétariat pour collaborer aux travaux de cette Commission .
ARTICLE VIII
Présentation de rapports par les Etats Membres.
Chaque Etat Membre adresse à l'Organisation un rapport périodique, sous la forme que déterminera la Conférence générale, sur les lois, règlements et statistiques relatifs à ses institutions et à son activité dans l'ordre de l'éducation , de la science et de la culture ainsi que sur la suite donnée aux recommandations et conventions visées à l'Article IV, paragraphe 4 .

2513

2514

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
ARTICLE IX
Budget.
1.- Le budget est administré par l'Organisation . 2.- La Conférence générale approuve définitivement le budget et fixe la participation financière de chacun des Etats Membres, sous réserve des dispositions qui pourront être prévues en cette matière par la convention conclue avec l'Organisation des Nations Unies conformément à l'article X de la présente Convention.
3. Le Directeur Général peut, avec l'approbation du Conseil exécutif, recevoir directement tous dons, legs et subventions provenant de Gouvernements , d'institutions publiques ou privées, d'associations ou de particuliers .
ARTICLE X
Relations avec l'Organisation des Nations Unies.
L'Organisation sera reliée, dès que possible, à l'Organisation des Nations Unies . Elle en constituera l'une des institutions spécialisées prévues à l'article 57 de la Charte des Nations Unies. Ces relations feront l'objet d'un accord avec l'Organisation des Nations Unies conformément aux dispositions de l'article 63 de la Charte . Cet accord sera soumis, pour approbation, à la Conférence Générale de la présente Organisation . Il devra fournir les moyens d'établir une coopération effective entre les deux organisations, dans la poursuite de leurs fins communes . Il consacrera, en même temps , l'autonomie de l'Organisation dans le domaine de sa compétence particulière, tel qu'il est défini dans la présente Convention. Cet accord pourra notamment contenir toutes dispositions concernant l'approbation du budget et le financement de l'Organisation par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies.
ARTICLE XI
Relations avec d'autres organisations et institutions internationales spécialisées.
1.- L'Organisation peut coopérer avec d'autres organisations et institutions intergouvernementales spécialisées, dont les tâches et activités sont en harmonie avec les siennes. A cet effet, le Directeur Général peut, sous la haute autorité du Conseil exécutif, établir des relations effectives avec ces organisations et institutions et constituer les commissions mixtes jugées nécessaires pour assurer une coopération efficace. Tout accord passé avec ces organisations ou institutions spécialisées sera soumis à l'approbation du Conseil exécutif.
2. Toutes les fois que la Conférence générale et les autorités compétentes de toute autre organisation ou institution intergouvernementale spécialisée poursuivant des activités et des objectifs analogues , jugeront souhaitable de transférer à l'Organisation les ressources et fonctions de ladite organisation ou institution , le Directeur Général pourra, sous réserve de l'approbation de la Conférence, conclure, à la satisfaction des deux parties , les accords nécessaires.

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL- UNESCO- SEPT. 30, 1946

3. - L'Organisation peut, d'un commun accord avec d'autres organisations intergouvernementales , prendre des dispositions appropriées pour s'assurer une représentation à leurs réunions respectives.
4. - L'Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'Education, la Science et la Culture peut prendre toutes dispositions utiles pour faciliter les consultations et assurer la coopération avec les organisations internationales privées s'occupant de questions qui entrent dans son domaine. Elle peut les inviter à entreprendre certaines tâches déterminées rentrant dans leur compétence . Cette coopération peut également prendre la forme d'une participation appropriée de représentants desdites organisations aux travaux de comités consultatifs créés par la Conférence générale.

ARTICLE XII
Statut juridique de l'Organisation. Les dispositions des Articles 104 et 105 de la Charte de l'Organisation des Nations Unies relatives au statut juridique de cette Organisation, à ses privilèges et immunités , s'appliquent également à la présente organisation.
ARTICLE XIII
Amendements.
1.- Les projets d'amendements à la présente Convention prendront effet lorsqu'ils auront été adoptés par la Conférence générale à la majorité des deux tiers ; néanmoins , les amendements entraînant des modifications fondamentales dans les buts de l'Organisation ou des obligations nouvelles pour les Etats Membres , devront être ensuite acceptés par les deux tiers des Etats Membres avant d'entrer en vigueur. Le texte des projets d'amendements sera communiqué aux Etats Membres par le Directeur Général six mois au moins avant d'être soumis à l'examen de la Conférence générale .
2.- La Conférence générale aura pouvoir d'adopter à la majorité des deux tiers un règlement en vue de l'application des dispositions du présent article.
ARTICLE XIV
Interprétation. 1.- Les textes anglais et français de la présente Convention font également foi. 2. Toutes questions et tous différends relatifs à l'interprétation de la présente Convention seront soumis pour décision à la Cour Internationale de Justice ou à un tribunal arbitral , selon ce que décidera la Conférence générale conformément à son règlement intérieur.
ARTICLE XV
Entrée en vigueur.
1.- La présente Convention sera soumise à acceptation. Les instruments d'acceptation seront déposés auprès du Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni .

2515

2516

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
2.- La présente Convention sera déposée dans les archives du Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni où elle restera ouverte à la signature. Les signatures pourront être apposées avant ou après le dépôt des instruments d'acceptation . L'acceptation ne sera valable que si elle est précédée ou suivie d'une signature.
3. La présente Convention entrera en vigueur lorsqu'elle aura été acceptée par vingt de ses signataires . Les acceptations ultérieures prendront effet immédiatement.
4.- Le Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni notifiera à tous les Membres de l'Organisation des Nations Unies la réception de tous les instruments d'acceptation et la date à laquelle la Convention entrera en vigueur conformément au paragraphe précédent.
En foi de quoi les soussignés , dûment autorisés à cet effet, ont signé la présente Convention dans les langues anglaise et française , les deux textes faisant également foi.
Fait à Londres, le seize Novembre 1945, en un seul exemplaire dans les langues anglaise et française . Des copies dûment certifiées conformes seront remises par le Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni aux Gouvernements de tous les Etats membres des Nations Unies .
REPUBLIQUE ARGENTINE CONRADO TRAVERSO
AUSTRALIE
BELGIQUE A. BUISSERET
BOLIVIE C. SALAMANCA
BRESIL MONIZ DE ARAGAO
REPUBLIQUE SOVIETIQUE SOCIALISTE DE BIELORUSSIE
CANADA VINCENT MASSEY
CHILI FRANCISCO WALKER LINARES CHINE
HU SHIH
COLOMBIE J. J. ARANGO
COSTA RICA
CUBA LUIS MARINO PEREZ TCHECOSLOVAQUIE
JAN OPOCENSKY

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL-UNESCO- SEPT. 30, 1946

DANEMARK ALB. MICHELSEN
REPUBLIQUE DOMINICAINE A. PASTORIZA

EQUATEUR ALB. PUIG

EGYPTE A. FATTAH . AMR
SALVADOR

ETHIOPIE

FRANCE

GRECE TH. AGHNIDES
GUATEMALA M. GALICH
HAITI LEON LALEAU HONDURAS

INDE JOHN SARGENT IRAN A. A. HEKMAT IRAK NAJI AL ASIL LIBAN
CAMILLE CHAMOUN LIBERIA
J. W. PEARSON LUXEMBOURG
A. ALS MEXIQUE
J. T. BODET PAYS-BAS
V. D. LEEUW NOUVELLE- ZELANDE
NICARAGUA ERNESTO SELVA
NORVEGE NILS HJELMTVEIT
95347-49-PT. III- 16

2517

2518

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
PANAMA E. A. MORALES
PARAGUAY
PEROU E. LETTS
PHILIPPINES MAXIMO M. KALAW
POLOGNE BERNARD DRZEWIESKI
ARABIE SAOUDITE HAFIZ WAHBA
SYRIE N. ARMANAZI TURQUIE
YÜCEL REPUBLIQUE SOVIETIQUE SOCIALISTE D'UKRAINE
UNION SUD AFRICAINE G. HEATON NICHOLLS
UNION DES REPUBLIQUES SOVIETIQUES SOCIALISTES
ROYAUME-UNI DE GRANDE BRETAGNE ET D'IRLANDE DU NORD ELLEN WILKINSON
ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE
URUGUAY R. E. MACEACHEN
VENEZUELA A. RODRIGUEZ Azpurua
YOUGOSLAVIE DR. LJUBO LEONTIC

Certified a true copy :

[ SEAL]

D. A. BIGBY

LONDON . Acting Librarian and Keeper ofthe Papers at the Foreign Office.

31 Jan 1946

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL-UNESCO- SEPT. 30, 1946

2519

No: 670 Ref: 282/98/46

The British Ambassador to the Secretary of State

His Majesty's Ambassador presents his compliments to the Secretary of State and, under instructions from His Majesty's principal Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, has the honour to inform him that Instruments of Acceptance of the Constitution of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation were deposited by the governments of the undermentioned countries in the archives of the Foreign Office on the dates shown:-

Czecholsovakia .

5th October, 1946

Brazil . . ·

· 14th October, 1946

Lebanon . ·

· 28th October, 1946

Greece ·

· 4th November, 1946

Poland ·

6th November , 1946

2. Instruments

of Acceptance

having now been deposited

on behalf

Date of entry into force.

of twenty signatory countries, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 Article XV, the Constitution came into force on 4th

Ante, p. 2504.

November, 1946 , the date of the deposit of the twentieth acceptance .

3. The other countries which have previously accepted the Consti-

tution, with the date upon which the acceptances were deposited,

are as follows: -

United Kingdom · New Zealand . · · Saudi Arabia . Union of South Africa . Commonwealth of Australia India · Mexico France Dominican Republic · Turkey · Egypt . · Norway · · Canada · China . Denmark · United States

20th February, 1946 6th March, 1946 30th April, 1946 3rd June, 1946 · · · 11th June, 1946 12th June, 1946 12th June, 1946 29th June, 1946 2nd July, 1946 · 6th July, 1946 16th July, 1946 8th August , 1946 6th September, 1946 · 13th September, 1946 20th September, 1946 30th September, 1946

BRITISH EMBASSY WASHINGTON, D.C. 10th December, 1946

2520

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

September 28 and
November 13, 15 , 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1582]

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting waiver of certain claims involving government vessels. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington September 28 , November 13 and 15, 1946; effective November 15, 1946.

The Canadian Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

CANADIAN EMBASSY AMBASSADE DU CANADA

57 Stat. 1021.

No. 348 SIR,

WASHINGTON, D. C., September 28, 1946.

With reference to the exchange of notes of May 25 and 26, 1943,

between the Governments of Canada and of the United States of Amer-

ica recording an agreement for the waiver of claims from collisions between vessels of war, I have the honour to inform you that the Gov-

ernment of Canada is prepared to give effect to an agreement in the

following terms :

ARTICLE I

"Government vessel" .

In this Agreement the expression "Government vessel" means a

vessel ( including a vessel of war ) , flying-boat or drydock owned by

or under bareboat charter to , requisitioned by, demised to , or other-

wise operated by, either Government, its servant, agent or instru-

mentality on bareboat terms or chartered to or otherwise operated by

or for such Government on terms which authorize such Government

to make this Agreement effective with respect to such vessel, flyingboat or drydock ; it includes a vessel operated under the supervision of the War Shipping Administration or Park Steamship Company Limited, but does not include (a ) a vessel , flying-boat or drydock on bareboat charter or otherwise on demise by either Government to a Government other than a contracting Government, or to any person,

firm or corporation otherwise than as the servant, agent or instru-

mentality of either contracting Government ; or (b) a vessel owned by

Canadian National (West Indies) Steamships Limited, Canadian Na-

tional Steamship Company Limited or associated or subsidiary com-

panies.

ARTICLE 2

Waiver of designated claims.

The Government of Canada and the Government of the United

States of America agree that each shall waive all those legal maritime

claims by either Government against the other Government or any

servant, agent or instrumentality of the other Government or any Government vessel in respect of collision , salvage, general average,

negligent navigation or negligent management of the said Government vessel or in respect of the loss or salvage of, damage to, or general

61 STAT.]

CANADA- MARITIME CLAIMS- Sept. 28, 1946 Nov. 13 , 15, 1946

average in connection with, cargoes carried in the said Government vessel ; subject however to the provisions of Articles 3 and 4.

2521

ARTICLE 3

Where in any case claims arise which are not required to be waived by this Agreement in addition to or in conjunction with claims which are so required to be waived and it is necessary in any proceedings including proceedings for the limitation of liability that claims be marshalled or for the proper assessment of any salvage or general average that values should be estimated , the provisions of this Agree ment shall not apply but claims which would otherwise be requirea to be waived under this Agreement shall be asserted . Any recoveries , however, shall be waived by the Government entitled to such recoveries or at the option of such Government shall be dealt with in such other way as will give effect to the purpose of this Agreement.

Inapplicability.

ARTICLE 4
Bareboat charters, 1. In order to carry out the full intention of this Agreement each etc. Government will so arrange in connection with bareboat charters or demises to it or requisitions by it that neither the owners , nor the persons , firms or corporations interested through such owners , shall have or assert any claims of the character specified herein.
Claims arising un2. Each Government represents that in no case in which a legal der insurance. maritime claim arises under any insurance that has been or will be effected on or in respect of any Government vessel or cargo carried therein shall any rights that can be exercised against the other Government be subrogated to the insurers concerned insofar as the insurers' liability relates to a claim which is required to be waived by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5
Each Government shall facilitate the assertion by the other Govern- eigAnssiemrtmiuonnitofy. soverment of sovereign immunity in relation to any Government vessel.

ARTICLE 6
This Agreement terminates the agreement contained in the exchange of notes of May 25 and 26 , 1943, and it shall apply to legal maritime claims arising since December 7, 1941, but remaining unsettled on the day this Agreement enters into force, as well as in respect of claims arising on or after such day and during the period in which the Agreement shall remain in force.

Applicability. 57 Stat. 1021.

ARTICLE 7
This Agreement shall remain in force until the expiration of six months from the day on which either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other Government of an intention to terminate the Agreement.

Duration.

I have the honour to inform you that if an Agreement in accordance

2522

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
with the above terms is acceptable to the Government of the United States of America , it shall be considered by the Government of Canada to have been concluded and to be in effect as of the date of a corresponding note from you indicating that the Government of the United States of America is prepared to give effect to the Agreement.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration. LB PEARSON
The Honourable WILLIAM L. CLAYTON, Acting Secretary of State for the United States, Washington, D.C.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Canadian Ambassador

SIR :

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON Nov 13 1946

Reference is made to the Ambassador's note No. 348 of September 28, 1946 containing the text of a proposed agreement between the Governments of Canada and of the United States of America for the

waiver of certain claims involving vessels of the two Governments. The terms of the proposed agreement are acceptable to this Govern-
ment, but after the words "War Shipping Administration " in Article I of the text of the agreement there should be added the words "and United States Maritime Commission". If this addition is satisfac-

tory, the agreement will be regarded as effective from the date of your note so advising.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. DEAN ACHESON

Acting Secretary of State

His Excellency HUMPHREY HUME WRONG,

Ambassador of Canada.

Ante, p. 2520.

The Canadian Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

No. 428

November 15, 1946.

SIR, I have the honour to refer to your note of November 13, 1946, re-
garding the proposed agreement between the Governments of Canada and the United States of America for the waiver of certain claims involving vessels of the two governments and to Mr. Pearson's note No. 348 of September 28, 1946, containing the text of said proposed agreement .
I also note that your government wishes an addition to be made to the text of Article I of the said proposed agreement, namely, that after

61 STAT. ]

Sept. 28, 1946 CANADA-MARITIME CLAIMS- Nov. 13, 15, 1946

the words, "War Shipping Administration ", there should be added the words "and United States Maritime Commission".
This addition to the text of Article I is acceptable to the Canadian Government. It is understood , therefore, that the agreement is in force from the date of this note.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. HH WRONG

DEAN ACHESON, Esq., Acting Secretary of State, Washington, D.C.

2523 Effective date.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

2525

Agreement between the United States of America and other powers
respecting the Preparatory Commission of the International Refugee Organization . Opened for signature at New York December 15, 1946; signed for the United States of America December 16, 1946 ; effective December 31 , 1946.

December 16, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1583]

AGREEMENT ON INTERIM MEASURES TO BE TAKEN IN RESPECT OF REFUGEES
AND DISPLACED PERSONS

UNITED NATIONS Lake Success, New York
1946

2526

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

AGREEMENT ON INTERIM MEASURES TO BE TAKEN IN RESPECT OF REFUGEES AND DISPLACED PERSONS

THE GOVERNMENTS which have signed the Constitution of the International Refugee Organization,
having determined that they will take all measures possible to accomplish expeditiously the entry into effective operation of that Organization, and to provide for an orderly transfer to it of the functions and assets of existing organizations ;
having decided that, pending the entry into force of the Constitution of the Organization, a Preparatory Commission for the International Refugee Organization should be established for the performance of certain functions and duties ;
AGREE to the following measures:
1. There is hereby established a Preparatory Commission for the International Refugee Organization, which shall consist of one representative from each Government signatory to the Constitution. The Director of the Inter-governmental Committee on Refugees, the Director-General of UNRRA and the Director of the International Labour Organization, or their representatives, shall be invited to sit with the Commission in a consultative capacity.
2. The Commission shall:
(a) take all necessary and practicable measures for the purpose of bringing the Organization into effective operation as soon as possible;
(b) arrange for the convening of the General Council in its first session at the earliest practicable date following the entry into force of the Constitution of the Organization;
(c) prepare the provisional agenda for this first session as well as documents and recommendations relating thereto;
(d) suggest plans, in consultation with existing organizations and the control authori-

ties, for the programme for the first year of the Organization;
(e) prepare draft financial and staff regu lations, and draft rules of procedure for the General Council and the Executive Committee.
3. The Commission may, in its discretion and after agreement with existing organizations dealing with refugees and displaced persons, take over any of the functions, activities, assets and
personnel of such organizations, provided that the Commission is satisfied that this is essential in order to accomplish the orderly transfer to the International Refugee Organization of such functions or activities.
4. The Commission shall be governed by the rules of procedure of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations so far as these are
applicable. 5. The Commission shall appoint an Executive
Secretary, who shall serve the Commission in that capacity and perform such duties as the Commission may determine. He shall be responsible for the appointment and direction of such staff as may be required for the work of the Commission.
6. The expenses of the Commission may be met by advances from such Governments as choose to make advance contributions, which shall be deductible from their first contributions to the Organization ; and from such funds and assets as may be transferred from existing organizations to meet the cases provided for in paragraph 3 of this Agreement.
7. The first meeting of the Commission shall be convened as soon as practicable by the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
8. The Commission shall cease to exist upon the election ofthe Director-General of the Organization, at which time its property, assets and records shall be transferred to the Organization.

2

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946

2527

9. This Agreement shall come into force as soon as it has been signed by the representatives of eight Governments signatories to the Constitution of the International Refugee Organization and shall remain open for signature by Members ofthe United Nations which sign the Constitution of the International Refugee Organization until the Commission is dissolved in accordance with paragraph 8 of this Agreement.

IN FAITH WHEREOF, the undersigned representatives, having been duly authorized for that purpose, sign this Agreement in the Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish languages, all five texts being equally authentic.
DONE at Flushing Meadow, New York, this fifteenth day of December, one thousand nine hundred and forty-six.

3

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

2529

ACCORD RELATIF AUX DISPOSITIONS PROVISOIRES DEVANT ETRE PRISES A L'EGARD DES REFUGIES ET PERSONNES DEPLACEES

NATIONS UNIES Lake Success, New -York
1946

2530

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ACCORD RELATIF AUX DISPOSITIONS PROVISOIRES DEVANT ETRE PRISES A L'EGARD DES REFUGIES ET PERSONNES DEPLACEES

LES GOUVERNEMENTS qui ont signé la Consti tution de l'Organisation internationale pour les réfugiés,
ayant décidé de prendre toutes les mesures en leur pouvoir pour que le fonctionnement effectif de l'Organisation devienne promptement une réalité, et pour assurer le transfert méthodique à cette Organisation des fonctions qu'exercent les organisations existantes, ainsi que les avoirs de celles-ci ;
ayant décidé que, en attendant l'entrée en vigueur de la Constitution de l'Organisation, une Commission préparatoire de l'Organisation internationale pour les réfugiés devrait être créée pour exercer certaines fonctions et remplir cer taines obligations;
CONVIENNENT des dispositions suivantes:
1. Il est créé, par les présentes, une Commis. sion préparatoire de l'Organisation internatio. nale pour les réfugiés, qui se composera d'un représentant de chacun des Gouvernements signataires de la Constitution. Le Directeur du Comité intergouvernemental pour les réfugiés, le Directeur général de l'UNRRA et le Directeur de l'Organisation internationale du Travail, ou leurs représentants, seront invités à assister, à titre consultatif, aux séances de la Commission.
2. La Commission devra: a) prendre toutes les mesures nécessaires
et possibles pour que l'Organisation puisse commencer à fonctionner effectivement aussi.
tôt que possible; b) prendre les dispositions nécessaires en
vue de convoquer le Conseil général, pour sa première session, à une date aussi rapprochée que possible après l'entrée en vigueur de la Constitution de l'Organisation ;
c) préparer l'ordre du jour provisoire de cette première session, ainsi que les documents et recommandations s'y rapportant ;
2

d) préparer, de concert avec les organisa. tions existantes et les autorités chargées du contrôle, des projets pour le programme des activités de l'Organisation pendant la première année de son existence:
e) préparer un projet de règlement financier, un projet de statut du personnel et des projets de règlement intérieur pour le Conseil général et le Comité exécutif.
3. La Commission peut, si elle le désire, et après accord avec les organisations existantes qui s'occupent des réfugiés et des personnes déplacées, prendre en charge les fonctions, les activités, les avoirs et le personnel de ces organisations, qu'elle juge nécessaires pour assurer le transfert régulier à l'Organisation de ces fonctions ou activités.
4. La Commission sera soumise au règlement intérieur du Conseil économique et social de l'Organisation des Nations Unies, dans la mesure où ce règlement est applicable.
5. La Commission nommera un Secrétaire exécutif, qui l'assistera à ce titre et remplira les fonctions que la Commission pourra déterminer. Le Secrétaire exécutif sera chargé de nommer et de diriger le personnel que le travail de la Commission pourra exiger.
6. Les dépenses de la Commission pourront être payées au moyen d'avances des Gouvernements qui accepteront de faire des avances à déduire de leurs premières contributions à l'Organisation, et au moyen des fonds et des biens qui pourront être transférés des organisations existantes, pour faire face aux cas prévus au paragraphe 3 du présent Accord.
7. La première réunion de la Commission sera convoquée aussitôt que possible par le Secrétaire général des Nations Unies.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

2531

8. La Commission cessera d'exister lorsque le Directeur général de l'Organisation aura été élu, et à ce moment, ses biens et avoirs et ses archives seront transférés à l'Organisation.
9. Le présent accord prendra effet aussitôt qu'il aura été signé par les représentants de huit Gouvernements signataires de la Constitution de l'Organisation internationale pour les réfugiés et restera ouvert à la signature des Membres des Nations Unies qui signeront la Constitution de

l'Organisation jusqu'à ce que la Commission soit dissoute conformément aux dispositions du paragraphe 8 du présent Accord.
EN FOI DE QUO1 les représentants soussignés, dûment autorisés, signent le présent accord rédigé en anglais, en chinois, en espagnol, en français et en russe, les cinq textes faisant également foi.
FAIT à Flushing Meadow, New-York, le quinze décembre, mil neuf cent quarante-six.

3

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL REFUGEE ORGANIZATION DEC. 16, 1946

2533

            

    
  
95347-49---PT. III- -17

2534

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

            

     ,        ,    ,         ,       ,   ,   ,   : ---    ,             ,     ,   ,        :
(  )      ;
(  )    ,      ;
(  )      ;
(  )      ,     ;
(  )  ,               ,      ,    ,  ,   

       E    ,     ,      ,    

*               ,  

          ;        ,      

          (

  

  ,  

    

  

  ,  ;          ,         

        ,      ,  ,  ,  ,      
--        

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

2535

   ,        
I  

   , -
1946

2536

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

   ,           

,       ,
                      ;
                         ;
   :
1.         ,         ,  .       ,                        .
2. : ()     -
         ;
(b)                   ;
()      ,         ;
(d)        , -
2

      ;
(e )      ,           .
3.   ,         ,       ,    ,  ,      ,                     .
4.          ,     .
5.    -
,   ,   ,        .              .
6.    -
  ,    ,         ,           ;     ,        ,     3.
7.           .
8.    

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

2537

  ,   ,     .
9.     
      ,       .         ,       ,         8.

  ,  ,      ,     , , ,    ,       HERE
   ,   ,  ,     .

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC . 16, 1946

2539

ACUERDO PROVISIONAL
ACERCA DE LAS MEDIDAS QUE SE HAN DE ADOPTAR RESPECTO A LOS REFUGIADOS Y PERSONAS DESPLAZADAS

NACIONES UNIDAS Lake Success, Nueva York
1946

2540

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ACUERDO PROVISIONAL ACERCA DE LAS MEDIDAS QUE SE HAN DE ADOPTAR RESPECTO A LOS REFUGIADOS Y PERSONAS DESALOJADAS

LOS GOBIERNOS signatarios de los Estatutos de la Organización Internacional de Refugiados,
habiendo resuelto tomar todas las medidas posibles para poner rápidamente en funcionamiento efectivo a la Organización, y disponer la transferencia ordenada a la misma de las funciones y los haberes de las organizaciones existentes ;
habiendo resuelto que, mientras entran en vigor los estatutos de la Organización, se establezca una Comisión Preparatoria para la Orga nización Internacional de Refugiados, que se haga cargo de ciertas funciones y atribuciones.
CONVIENEN en lo que a continuación se expresa :
1. Se establece por este medio una Comisión Preparatoria para la Organización Internacional de Refugiados, integrada por un representante de cada uno de los países firmantes de los esta. tutos. El Director del Comité Intergubernamen. tal de Refugiados, el Director General de la Administración de Socorro y Rehabilitación de las Naciones Unidas y el Director de la Organización Internacional del Trabajo, o sus respectivos re presentantes, serán invitados a tomar parte en los trabajos de la Comisión a título consultivo.
2. La Comisión : (a) tomará todas las medidas necesarias y
viables para poner en funcionamiento efectivo a la Organización tan pronto como sea posible ;
(b) hará los arreglos necesarios para la convocación de la primera reunión del Con. sejo General en la fecha más próxima posible a partir de la entrada en vigor de los estatu tos de la Organización ;
(c) preparará el orden del día provisional para el primer período de sesiones así como los documentos y recomendaciones relacionados con el mismo;
(d) sugerirá planes, en consulta con las

organizaciones existentes y las autoridades de control, para el programa que se ha de desarrollar durante el primer año de la Organización ;
(e) preparará proyectos de reglamentos financieros y para el personal, así como el proyecto de reglamento interior para el Con. sejo General y el Comité Ejecutivo.
3. La Comisión puede, a su discreción y después de ponerse de acuerdo con las organizacio nes existentes, tratar de todos los asuntos referentes a los refugiados y personas desalojadas, asumir las funciones y actividades y hacerse cargo de haberes y personal de dichas organizaciones, con tal que la Comisión convenga en que ello es indispensable para llevar a cabo la transferencia ordenada de tales funciones y actividades a la Organización Internacional de Refugiados.
4. La Comisión estará regida por el reglamento interior del Consejo Económico y Social de las Naciones Unidas siempre que el mismo fuere aplicable.
5. La Comisión designará un Secretario Eje. cutivo que desempeñará las funciones de tal en el seno de la misma y se hará cargo de las atribuciones que la Comisión determine. El Secre tario Ejecutivo se hará cargo del nombramiento
dirección del personal que requieran los traba jos de la Comisión.
6. Los gastos de la Comisión pueden ser sufragados mediante anticipos de aquellos gobiernos que deseen hacer contribuciones anticipadas que serán deductibles de la primera cuota de los mismos a la Organización ; y recurriendo a fon. dos y haberes que se traspasen de las organiza. ciones existentes para hacer frente a los casos previstos en el párrafo 3 de este acuerdo.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946

2541

7. El Secretario General de las Naciones Unidas convocará, tan pronto como sea posible, la primera reunión de la Comisión.
8. La Comisión dejará de existir tan pronto como se elija al Director General de la Organi zación efectuándose, en ese momento, el traspaso de sus propiedades, haberes y archivos a la Organización.
9. Este arreglo entrará en vigor tan pronto como sea firmado por los representantes de los ocho países signatarios de los estatutos de la Organización Internacional de Refugiados y

podrá ser firmado por los Miembros de las Naciones Unidas que suscriban los estatutos de la Organización Internacional de Refugiados hasta que sea disuelta la Comisión, de acuerdo con el párrafo 8.
EN FE DE LO CUAL, los infrascritos represen. tantes, debidamente autorizados para estos fines, firman el presente acuerdo, en los idiomas chino, español, francés, inglés y ruso, cuyos cinco textos son igualmente auténticos.
HECHO en Flushing Meadow, Nueva York, a los quince días del mes de diciembre de mil novecientos cuarenta y seis.

3

2542

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

FOR AFGHANISTAN : POUR L'AFGHANISTAN :
 :  : POR EL AFGANISTÁN :

FOR ARGENTINA: POUR L'ARGENTINE :  :   : POR LA ARGENTINA :
FOR AUSTRALIA : POUR L'AUSTRALIE :  :  : POR AUSTRALIA :

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

2543

FOR THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM : POUR LE ROYAUME DE BELGIQUE:   :   : POR EL REINO de Bélgica :

FOR BOLIVIA: POUR LA BOLIVIE :  :  : POR BOLIVIA:
FOR BRAZIL : POUR LE BRÉSIL :  :   : POR EL BRASIL :

2544

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

FOR THE BYELORUSSIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC: POUR LA RÉPUBLIQUE SOCIALISTE Soviétique de BIÉLORUSSIE:    :      : POR LA REPÚBLICA SOCIALISTA SOVIÉTICA BIELORUSA :

FOR CANADA: POUR LE CANADA :  :   : POR EL CANADA:
FOR CHILE : POUR LE CHILI:  :   : POR CHILE :

Paul MARTIN Dec. 16, 1946

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

2545

FOR CHINA: POUR LA CHINE :  :  : POR LA CHINA:

FOR COLOMBIA: POUR LA COLOMBIE :  :  : POR COLOMBIA:
FOR COSTA RICA: POUR COSTA-RICA:  :  : POR COSTA RICA:

2546

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

FOR CUBA: POUR CUBA:
 :   : POR CUBA:

FOR CZECHOSLOVAKIA: POUR LA TCHÉCOSLOVAQUIE:  :  : POR CHECOESLOVAQUIA:

FOR DENMARK : POUR LE DANEMARK :
 :   : POR DINAMARCA:

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

2547

FOR THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC : POUR LA RÉPUBLIQUE DominicaINE :  :    : POR LA REPÚBLICA DOMINICANA:

Emilio GARCIA GODOY Diciembre 17, 1946

FOR ECUADOR: POUR L'EQUATEUR :  :   : POR EL ECUADOR:

FOR EGYPT: POUR L'EGYPTE :  : 3a Eraner: POR EGIPTO:

2548

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

FOR EL SALVADOR : POUR LE SALVADOR:  :   : POR EL SALVADOR:

FOR ETHIOPIA: POUR L'ETHIOPIE:  :   : POR ETIOPÍA:

FOR FRANCE : POUR LA FRANCE:  :  : POR FRANCIA:

Alexandre PARODI 17 décembre 1946

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

2549

FOR GREECE : POUR LA GRÈCE:  :  : POR GRECIA:

FOR GUATEMALA: POUR LE GUATEMALA :
 :  : POR GUATEMALA :

Jorge Garcia Granados 16 de Diciembre de 1946

FOR HAITI : POUR HAÏTI :  :  : POR HAITÍ:
95347-49-- PT. III- -18

2550

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

FOR HONDURAS : POUR LE HONDURAS:
 :   : POR HONDURAS:

Tiburcio CARIAS, Jr. Diciembre 18 de 1946

FOR ICELAND : POUR L'ISLANDE :
 :   : POR ISLANDIA:

FOR INDIA: POUR L'INDE:  :   : POR LA INDIA:

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

2551

FOR IRAN: POUR L'IRAN:  :  : POR IRÁN:

FOR IRAQ: POUR L'IRAK :  :   : POR IRAK:

FOR LEBANON: POUR LE LIBAN:  :   : POR EL LÍBANO:

2552

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

FOR LIBERIA: POUR LE LIBÉRIA:  :  : POR LIBERIA:

C. Abayomi CASSELL 31 December 1946

FOR THE GRAND DUCHY OF Luxembourg : POUR LE GRAND- DUCHÉ DE LUXEMBOURG :   :     : POR EL GRAN DUCADO DE LUXEMBURGO:

FOR MEXICO: POUR LE MEXIQUE :  :  : POR MÉXICO :

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

2553

FOR THE KINGdom of the Netherlands: POUR LE ROYAUME DES PAYS-BAS:   :    : POR EL REINO DE HOLANDA:

FOR NEW ZEALAND : POUR LA NOUVELLE-ZÉLANDE :  :   : POR NUEVA ZELANDIA:
FOR NICARAGUA: POUR LE NICARAGUA:  :   : POR NICARAGUA:

2554

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

FOR THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY: POUR LE ROYAUME DE NORVÈGE:
 :    : POR EL REINO DE NORUEGA;

FOR PANAMA: POUR LE PANAMA:  :  : POR PANAMÁ:

FOR PARAGUAY: POUR LE PARAGUAY :  :  : POR EL PARAGUAY :

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

2555

FOR PERU: POUR LE PÉROU:  :  : POR EL PERÚ :

FOR THE PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC : POUR LA RÉPUBLIQUE DES PHILIPPINES:  :    : POR LA REPÚBLICA DE FILIPINAS:

Carlos P. ROMULO December 18, 1946

FOR POLAND: POUR LA POLOGNE:  :  : POR POLONIA:

2556

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

FOR SAUDI ARABIA: POUR L'ARABIE SAOUDITE :  :    : POR ARABIA SAUDITA:

FOR SWEDEN : POUR LA SUÈDE :  :  : POR SUECIA:
FOR SYRIA: POUR LA SYRIE :  :  : POR SIRIA:

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

2557

FOR TURKEY : POUR LA TURQUIE :  :  : POR TURQUÍA :

FOR THE UKRAINIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC : POUR LA RÉPUBLIQUE SOCIALISTE SOVIÉTIQUE D'UKRAINE :    :     : POR LA REPÚBLICA SOCIALISTA SOVIÉTICA UCRANIANA:

FOR THE UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA: POUR L'UNION SUD-AFRICAINE :  :    : POR LA UNIÓN Sudafricana:

2558

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

FOR THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS : POUR L'UNION DES RÉPUBLIQUES SOCIALISTES SOVIÉTIQUES:   :      : POR LA UNIÓN de RepúblICAS SOCIALISTAS SOVIÉTICAS:

FOR THE UNITed Kingdom of GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND : POUR LE ROYAUME-UNI DE GRANDE-BRETAGNE ET D'IRLANDE DU NORD :  :       : POR EL REINO UNIDO de La Gran Bretaña e Irlanda del Norte :

FOR THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: POUR LES ETATS-UNIS D'AMÉRIQUE :   :     : POR LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMÉRICA:

Warren R. AUSTIN December 16, 1946

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946

2559

FOR URUGUAY: POUR L'URUGUAY:  :  : POR EL URUGUAY:

FOR VENEZUELA! POUR LE VENEZUELA :  :   : POR VENEZUELA:

FOR YUGOSLAVIA: POUR LA YOUGOSLAVIE :  :  : POR YUGOSLAVIA:

2560

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Certified true copy. Forthe Secretary-General:

Copie certifiée conforme. Pour le Secrétaire général:

[1 ] fr know Kernor
Assistant Secretary-General in charge of the LegalDepartment. Secrétaire général adjoint chargé du Département juridique.
'Dr Ivan Kerno

61 STAT.] PHILIPPINES-PUBLIC ROADS PROGRAM-FEB. 14, 1947

2561

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic ofthe Philippines respecting a public roads program in the Philippines Signed at Manila February 14, 1947; effective February 14 , 1947.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES REGARDING A ROAD, STREET AND BRIDGE PROGRAM

February 14, 1947 [T. I. A. 8. 1584]

WHEREAS, the Government of the Republic of the Philippines is

desirous of improving its public roads, streets, and bridges ; and WHEREAS, the Government of the United States of America has
enacted Public Law No. 370, 79th Congress, approved April 30 , 1946, providing, among other things, that its Public Roads Administration

60 Stat. 128. 50 U. S. C. app.
$ 1751-1806.

is authorized to plan, design, restore and build in accordance with its

usual contract procedures, in cooperation with the Philippine Government, certain roads, streets, and bridges as may be determined necessary from the standpoint of the national defense and economic

rehabilitation of the Republic of the Philippines and to the extent that the President of the United States approves the findings in a

report on Philippine Highway Requirements as prepared by the Public Roads Administration ; and, in accordance with such regulations as may be adopted by the Commissioner of the said Public

Roads Administration, to provide training for not to exceed ten

Filipino engineers from the regularly employed staff of the Philip-

pine Public Works Department, to be designated by the President of the Philippines ;

The Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines have decided to conclude an agreement for those purposes and have agreed as follows :

ARTICLE I

The responsible agent of the Government of the United States for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement shall be the Commissioner of the United States Public Roads Administration who may delegate to a duly authorized representative all or any part of his authority and responsibility for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement. The duties, functions and powers exercised under the terms of this Agreement by the representative of the Commissioner of the United States Public Roads Administration in the Philippines shall be carried out under the general supervision of the Ambassador of the United States accredited to the Government of the Philippines.

U. S. agent.

ARTICLE II

The Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines agree that the road, street and bridge program in the Republic of the Philippines is to be advanced progressively

Advancement of program .

2562

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT,

as may be determined by the duly authorized representative of the Philippine Department of Public Works and Communications and the authorized representative of the United States Public Roads Administration subject to such regulations as may be issued by the Commissioner of the United States Public Roads Administration and

subject to the availability of such funds as may be allotted by the ad-

ministrative agency of the Government of the United States of Amer-

ica which is or may be authorized and empowered to administer the

60 Stat. 128.

provisions of the Act of the Congress of the United States of America

50 U. S. C. app.

§§ 1751-1806.

approved April 30, 1946, referred to above.

ARTICLE III

Studies of highway transportation.

The United States Public Roads Administration personnel assigned to this work will aid and assist the Philippine Department of Public Works and Communications in making appropriate studies of highway transportation in order that the latter shall be enabled to submit a comprehensive program of work to be undertaken with funds under the Act for each fiscal year as well as the over-all program. These programs will be supported by Project Statements and Project Agreements which are to be determined and negotiated between the Philippine Department of Public Works and Communications and the United States Public Roads Administration.

ARTICLE IV

Filipino trainees.

The United States Public Roads Administration , subject to the availability of appropriated funds, shall provide training during the period of this Agreement for not to exceed ten engineers, citizens of the Republic of the Philippines, in the construction, maintenance, and highway traffic engineering and control necessary for the continued maintenance and for the efficient and safe operation of highway transport facilities.
The President of the Republic of the Philippines shall designate trainees selected in accordance with procedures and standards established by the Commissioner of Public Roads of the United States. The Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall furnish to the United States Embassy at Manila the names of trainees so designated .
ARTICLE V

Reimbursement.

The United States Public Roads Administration will reimburse the Philippine Department of Public Works and Communications monthly (or as otherwise agreed between these two governmental agencies) in United States dollars for the United States Government's share of the value of the work found to have been satisfactorily performed under any or all active Project Agreements in accordance with the pro rata and other conditions provided in said Project Agreements.
ARTICLE VI

Accounts and rec- The United States Public Roads Administration personnel will conords.
fer with the Philippine Department of Public Works and Communi-

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES PUBLIC ROADS PROGRAM-FEB. 14, 1947

2563

cations accounting and audit staff with respect to maintaining appropriate project cost accounts, and adequate basic field records to be

kept by contractors or other constructing agency for jobs handled under force account or direct labor construction methods ; the suffi-

ciency of these accounts and records being subject at all times to approval of the United States Public Roads Administration. The United States Public Roads Administration shall have the right of access to all such records and accounts for the purpose of conducting detailed audits and cost analyses as may be found requisite to support the disbursements of the funds made available by the United States Government under this Agreement. The United States Public Roads Administration also shall have access to records and all other

data and documents of the Philippine Department of Public Works and Communications pertaining to the financial ability and other qualifications of contractors bidding on work embraced in this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
The Republic of the Philippines agrees to provide all lands, easements, and rights-of-way necessary for the execution of the projects

Provision of lands, etc.

under the programs to which this Agreement relates ; and the Public Roads Administration is authorized in the prosecution of these programs to accept and utilize thereon contributions of labor, materials , equipment, and money from the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and its political subdivisions.

ARTICLE VIII

On projects financed jointly by the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines, agreement will be reached between the representatives of the United States Public Roads Administration

Standards of construction.

and the Philippine Department of Public Works and Communica-

tions as to standards of construction . Frequent inspections will be made by representatives of the United States Public Roads Adminis-

tration to determine whether these standards are being met . The Philippine Department of Public Works and Communications will be

advised of the results of such inspections. Payment of funds for work so determined as satisfactory will be made as outlined in Article

V hereof. Unsatisfactory work will be corrected before payment is made therefor.

ARTICLE IX
Maintenance and The Republic of the Philippines shall maintain and operate to the operation. satisfaction of the United States Public Roads Administration on the

projects and facilities provided for in this Agreement during the period of this Agreement. Representatives of the United States Pub-

lic Roads Administration shall make frequent inspections to determine whether maintenance and operation are satisfactory. The Philippine Department of Public Works and Communications will be advised of the results of such inspections.

2564

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

Office space, etc.

ARTICLE X
The Government of the Republic of the Philippines will cooperate with the United States Public Roads Administration in providing necessary office space and facilities, and adequate housing accommodations for its personnel and their families at reasonable rental rates.

ARTICLE XI

Damage suits, etc.

The Government of the Republic of the Philippines will save harmless all officers and employees of the United States Public Roads Administration who are citizens of the United States from damage suits or other civil actions arising out of their performance of their duties under this Agreement.
ARTICLE XII

Availability of surplus property received

It is agreed that the Philippine Governmental body authorized to

from U.S.

receive surplus property from the United States shall transfer or make

the use thereof available without charge to the Department of Public

Works and Communications such construction and maintenance

60 Stat. 134. 50 U. S. C. app. §§ 1771-1776.

equipment, shop tools, machinery spare parts and supplies as are necessary to the economic and efficient fulfillment of the purposes of this Agreement, all such disposals to be in accordance with Title II of the Philippine Rehabilitation Act of 1946.

Free passage.

ARTICLE XIII
Employees and agents of the Government of the United States of America on duty or assigned to duty in the Republic of the Philippines under the provisions of the present Agreement shall be permitted to move freely into and out of the Republic of the Philippines subject to existing Visa and Passport Regulations. Free passage shall also be afforded over all bridges, ferries, roads and other facilities of the highways where tolls are collected for passage of vehicles or occupants.

ARTICLE XIV

Nontaxability of

funds, etc.

Pending the conclusion of negotiations now being considered by

the United States and the Republic of the Philippines, no import,

excise, consumption, or other tax, duty or impost shall be levied on

funds or property in the Republic of the Philippines which is owned by the Public Roads Administration and used for purposes under the present Agreement or on funds, materials, supplies and equipment imported into the Republic of the Philippines for use in connection with such purposes ; neither shall any such tax, duty or impost be levied on personal funds or property, not intended for resale, imported into the Republic of the Philippines for the use or consumption of the Public Roads Administration personnel who are United States citizens ; nor shall export or other tax be placed on any such property in the event of its removal from the Philippines.

ARTICLE XV

Right to remove personnel.

Each Government reserves the right to remove any personnel paid

by it and involved in carrying out the provisions of this Agreement

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES PUBLIC ROADS PROGRAM-FEB. 14, 1947

2565

with the understanding that each Government shall maintain an adequate force to carry out the provisions and requirements of this Agreement so long as the Agreement is in effect.

ARTICLE XVI

This Memorandum of Agreement shall become effective on the date

Effective date; duration.

of its signature and continue in effect until June 30 , 1950 ; however,

this Agreement may be revised , amended , or changed in whole or in

part with the approval of both parties as indicated and effected by

an exchange of notes between the two contracting parties ; and further, either party may terminate this Agreement by giving to the other party

Termination.

ninety days notice in writing through diplomatic channels.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Undersigned , duly authorized thereto, have signed the present Agreement in duplicate at Manila this fourteenth day of February , 1947.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : PAUL V. MCNUTT PAUL V. MCNUTT
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES :
R NEPOMUCENO R. NEPOMUCENO
Secretary of Public Works and Communications

95347°-49-PT. III- -19

2566

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

April 25, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1585]

Agreement between the United States of America and the Kingdom of Nepal respecting friendship and commerce. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Kathmandu April 25, 1947 ; entered into force April 25, 1947.

The Chief of the United States Special Diplomatic Mission to the Prime Minister and Supreme Commander-in-Chief of Nepal

UNITED STATES SPECIAL DIPLOMATIC MISSION TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL

YOUR HIGHNESS :

Kathmandu, April 25, 1947

I have the honor to make the following statement of my Government's understanding of the agreement reached through recent conversations held at Kathmandu by representatives of the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Kingdom

of Nepal with reference to diplomatic and consular representation , juridical protection, commerce and navigation. These two Govern-

ments, desiring to strengthen the friendly relations happily existing between the two countries, to further mutually advantageous com-

mercial relations between their peoples, and to maintain the mostfavored-nation principle in its unconditional and unlimited form as the basis of their commercial relations, agree to the following provisions :

Establishment of diplomatic relations.

1. The United States of America and the Kingdom of Nepal will

establish diplomatic and consular relations at a date which shall be

fixed by mutual agreement between the two Governments.

Rights, privileges, 2. The diplomatic representatives of each Party accredited to the

etc., ofdiplomatic rep-

resentatives.

Government of the other Party shall enjoy in the territories of such

other Party the rights, privileges , exemptions and immunities ac-

Consular officers.

corded under generally recognized principles of international law. The consular officers of each Party who are assigned to the Govern-

ment of the other Party, and are duly provided with exequaturs, shall

be permitted to reside in the territories of such other Party at the

places where consular officers are permitted by the applicable laws

to reside ; they shall enjoy the honorary privileges and the immunities accorded to officers of their rank by general international usage ;

Free entry of furniture, supplies, etc.

and they shall not , in any event , be treated in a manner less favorable than similar officers of any third country.
3. All furniture, equipment and supplies intended for official use in a consular or diplomatic office of the sending state shall be per-

mitted entry into the territory of the receiving state free of all customs duties and internal revenue or other taxes whether imposed upon or by reason of importation.

61 STAT. ] NEPAL- FRIENDSHIP AND COMMERCE-APR. 25, 1947

2567

4. The baggage and effects and other articles imported exclusively

for the personal use of consular and diplomatic officers and employees and the members of their respective families and suites, who are

nationals of the sending state and are not nationals of the receiving

state and are not engaged in any private occupation for gain in territory of the receiving state, shall be exempt from all customs duties and internal revenue or other taxes whether imposed upon or by

reason of importation . Such exemption shall be granted with respect

to property accompanying any person entitled to claim an exemption under this paragraph on first arrival or on any subsequent arrival and

with respect to property consigned to any such person during the
period the consular or diplomatic officer or employee , for or through
whom the exemption is claimed , is assigned to or is employed in the
receiving state by the sending state. Notification of
5. It is understood, however, (a ) that the exemptions provided by names of consular emparagraph 4 of this Agreement shall be accorded in respect of employees, etc.

ployees in a consular office only when the names of such employees have been duly communicated to the appropriate authorities of the receiving state ; ( b ) that in the case of the consignments to which

paragraph 4 of this Agreement refers, either state may, as a condition to the granting of the exemption provided , require that a

notification of any such consignment be given in such manner as it may prescribe ; and ( c ) that nothing herein shall be construed to

permit the entry into the territory of either state of any article the

importation of which is specifically prohibited by law. Rights and privi.
6. Nationals of the Kingdom of Nepal in the United States of leges of nationals.
America and nationals of the United States of America in the King-

dom of Nepal shall be received and treated in accordance with the requirements and practices of generally recognized international law. In respect of their persons, possessions and rights, such nationals shall

enjoy the fullest protection of the laws and authorities of the country, and shall not be treated in any manner less favorable than the nationals of any third country.
7. In all matters relating to customs duties and charges of any kind imposed on or in connection with importation or exportation or otherwise affecting commerce and navigation , to the method of levying such duties and charges, to all rules and formalities in con-

Customs duties, etc.

nection with importation or exportation , and to transit, warehousing and other facilities, each Party shall accord unconditional and unrestricted most- favored-nation treatment to articles the growth , prod-

uce or manufacture of the other Party, from whatever place ar-

riving, or to articles destined for exportation to the territories of such other Party, by whatever route . Any advantage, favor, privilege or immunity with respect to any duty, charge or regulation affecting

commerce or navigation now or hereafter accorded by the United States of America or by the Kingdom of Nepal to any third country shall be accorded immediately and unconditionally to the commerce

and navigation of the Kingdom of Nepal and of the United States of America, respectively.

2568

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Exceptions to provisions of paragraph 7.

8. There shall be excepted from the provisions of paragraph 7 of

this Agreement advantages now or hereafter accorded : (a ) by virtue

of a customs union of which either Party may become a member ; ( b) to adjacent countries in order to facilitate frontier traffic ; ( c ) to third countries which are parties to a multilateral economic agreement of general applicability, including a trade area of substantial

size, having as its objective the liberalization and promotion of international trade or other international economic intercourse and open to adoption by all the United Nations ; and ( d ) by the United States of America or its territories or possessions to one another, to the Republic of Cuba, to the Republic of the Philippines, or to the Panama Canal Zone. Clause (d ) shall continue to apply in respect of any advantages now or hereafter accorded by the United States of America

or its territories or possessions to one another irrespective of any

Adoption of certain measures and statutes.

change in the political status of any such territories or possessions. 9. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent the adoption or enforce-
ment by either Party : (a ) of measures relating to fissionable materials,

to the importation or exportation of gold and silver, to the traffic in

arms, ammunition and implements of war, or to such traffic in other

goods and materials as is carried on for the purpose of supplying a

military establishment ; (b) of measures necessary in pursuance of

obligations for the maintenance of international peace and security

or necessary for the protection of the essential interests of such Party

in time of national emergency ; or ( c) of statutes in relation to

Nonextension to designated prohibitions, etc.

immigration. 10. Subject to the requirement that, under like circumstances and
conditions, there shall be no arbitrary discrimination by either Party

against the nationals, commerce or navigation of the other Party in

favor of the nationals, commerce or navigation of any third country,

the provisions of this Agreement shall not extend to prohibitions or

restrictions : (a ) imposed on moral or humanitarian grounds ; (b)

designed to protect human, animal , or plant life or health ; ( c) relat-

ing to prison-made goods ; or (d) relating to the enforcement of

Applicability .

police or revenue laws. 11. The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all territory

under the sovereignty or authority of either of the parties, except

the Panama Canal Zone.

Continuance in

force; termination.

12. This Agreement shall continue in force until superseded by a

more comprehensive commercial agreement, or until thirty days from

the date of a written notice of termination given by either Party to the

other Party, whichever is the earlier. Moreover either Party may

terminate paragraphs 7 and 8 on thirty days' written notice.

Post, p. 2571.

If the above provisions are acceptable to the Government of the Kingdom of Nepal this note and the reply signifying assent thereto shall, if agreeable to that Government, be regarded as constituting an agreement between the two Governments which shall become effective on the date of such acceptance.

61 STAT. ] NEPAL- FRIENDSHIP AND COMMERCE-APR. 25, 1947
Please accept, Your Highness, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
JOSEPH C. SATTERTHWAITE
His Highness The Maharaja PADMA SHUM SHERE JUNG BAHADUR RANA Prime Minister and Supreme Commander-in- Chief Nepal
The Prime Minister and Supreme Commander-in-Chief of Nepal to the Chief of the United States Special Diplomatic Mission
YOUR EXCELLENCY, I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your note dated
25th April 1947 , in which there is set forth the understanding of your Government of the agreement reached through recent conversations held at Kathmandu between the representatives of the Government of the United States of America and the representatives of the Government of the Kingdom of Nepal, in the following terms :
The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Kingdom of Nepal, desiring to strengthen the friendly relations happily existing between the two countries, to further mutually advantageous commercial relations between their peoples , and to maintain the most-favored-nation principle in its unconditional and unlimited form as the basis of their commercial relations, agree to the following provisions :
1. The United States of America and the Kingdom of Nepal will establish diplomatic and consular relations at a date which shall be fixed by mutual agreement between the two Governments.
2. The diplomatic representatives of each Party accredited to the Government of the other Party shall enjoy in the territories of such other Party the rights, privileges, exemptions and immunities accorded under generally recognised principles of international law. The consular officers of each Party who are assigned to the Government of the other Party, and are duly provided with exequaturs, shall be permitted to reside in the territories of such other Party at the places where consular officers are permitted by the applicable laws to reside ; they shall enjoy the honorary privileges and the immunities accorded to officers of their rank by general international usage ; and they shall not, in any event, be treated in a manner less favorable than similar officers of any third country.
3. All furniture, equipment and supplies intended for official use in a consular or diplomatic office of the sending state shall be permitted entry into the territory of the receiving state free of all customs duties and internal revenue or other taxes whether imposed upon or by reason of importation.

2569

2570

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
4. The baggage and effects and other articles imported exclusively for the personal use of consular and diplomatic officers and employees and the members of their respective families and suites, who are nationals of the sending state and are not nationals of the receiving state and are not engaged in any private occupation for gain in territory of the receiving state, shall be exempt from all customs duties and internal revenue or other taxes whether imposed upon or by reason of importation. Such exemption shall be granted with respect to property accompanying any person entitled to claim an exemption under this paragraph on first arrival or on any subsequent arrival and with respect to property consigned to any such person during the period the consular or diplomatic officer or employee, for or through whom the exemption is claimed , is assigned to or is employed in the receiving state by the sending state.
5. It is understood, however, ( a) that the exemptions provided by paragraph 4 of this Agreement shall be accorded in respect of employees in a consular office only when the names of such employees have been duly communicated to the appropriate authorities of the receiving state ; (b) that in the case of the consignments to which paragraph 4 of this Agreement refers , either state may, as a condition to the granting of the exemption provided , require that a notification of any such consignment be given in such manner as it may prescribe ; and (c) that nothing herein shall be construed to permit the entry into the territory of either state of any article the importation of which is specifically prohibited by law.
6. Nationals of the Kingdom of Nepal in the United States of America and nationals of the United States of America in the Kingdom of Nepal shall be received and treated in accordance with the requirements and practices of generally recognised international law. In respect of their persons, possessions and rights, such nationals shall enjoy the fullest protection of the laws and authorities of the country, and shall not be treated in any manner less favorable than the nationals of any third country.
7. In all matters relating to customs duties and charges of any kind imposed on or in connection with importation or exportation or otherwise affecting commerce and navigation, to the method of levying such duties and charges, to all rules and formalities in connection with importation or exportation , and to transit, warehousing and other facilities, each Party shall accord unconditional and unrestricted mostfavored-nation treatment to articles the growth , produce or manufacture of the other Party, from whatever place arriving, or to articles destined for exportation to the territories of such other Party, by whatever route. Any advantage, favor, privilege or immunity with respect to any duty, charge or regulation affecting commerce or navigation now or hereafter accorded by the United States of America or by the Kingdom of Nepal to any third country shall be accorded immediately and unconditionally to the commerce and navigation of the

61 STAT. ] NEPAL- FRIENDSHIP AND COMMERCE-APR. 25, 1947

2571

Kingdom of Nepal and of the United States of America , respectively. 8. There shall be excepted from the provisions of paragraph 7 of
this Agreement advantages now or hereafter accorded ; ( a ) by virtue of a customs union of which either Party may become a member ; (b) to adjacent countries in order to facilitate frontier traffic ; ( c) to third countries which are parties to a multilateral economic agreement of general applicability, including a trade area of substantial size , having as its objective the liberalization and promotion of international trade or other international economic intercourse and open to adoption by all the United Nations ; and ( d ) by the United States of America or its territories or possessions to one another, to the Republic of Cuba, to the Republic of the Philippines, or to the Panama Canal Zone. Clause ( d ) shall continue to apply in respect of any advantages now or hereafter accorded by the United States of America or its territories or possessions to one another irrespective of any change in the political status of any such territories or possessions.
9. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent the adoption or enforcement by either Party : (a ) of measures relating to fissionable materials, to the importation or exportation of gold and silver, to the traffic in arms, ammunition and implements of war, or to such traffic in other goods and materials as is carried on for the purpose of supplying a military establishment ; ( b) of measures necessary in pursuance of obligations for the maintenance of international peace and security or necessary for the protection of the essential interests of such Party in time of national emergency ; or (c) of statutes in relation to immigration.
10. Subject to the requirement that, under like circumstances and conditions, there shall be no arbitrary discrimination by either Party against the nationals , commerce or navigation of the other Party in favor of the nationals, commerce or navigation of any third country, the provisions of this agreement shall not extend to prohibitions or restrictions : (a ) imposed on moral or humanitarian grounds ; (b) designed to protect human, animal, or plant life or health ; ( c ) relating to prison-made goods ; or ( d ) relating to the enforcement of police or revenue laws.
11. The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all territory under the sovereignty or authority of either of the parties, except the Panama Canal Zone.
12. This Agreement shall continue in force until superseded by a more comprehensive commercial agreement, or until thirty days from the date of a written notice of termination given by either Party to the other Party, whichever is the earlier. Moreover either Party may terminate paragraphs 7 and 8 on 30 days' written notice.
The Government of the Kingdom of Nepal approves the above provisions and is prepared to give effect thereto beginning with the date of this reply note.

Effective date.

2572

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

Please accept Your Excellency the renewed assurance of high con-

sideration with which I remain,

Your Excellency's sincerely,

PADMA SHUM SHERE

JUNG R. B.

Dated KATHMANDU

the 25th April 1947.

To , His Excellency The Hon'ble Mr. JOSEPH C. SATTERTHWAITE
Chief, United States Special Diplomatic Mission to the Kingdom ofNepal Kathmandu.

61 STAT.] INDIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- NOV. 14, 1946

2573

Agreement between the United States of America and India respecting air transport services. Signed at New Delhi November 14, 1946;
effective November 14 , 1946. And exchange of notes signed at New Delhi November 14, 1946.

N[oTv.eIm. bAe.rS.141, 518964]6

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES RELATING TO AIR SERVICES.

The Government of India and the Government of the United States of America, hereinafter described as the Contracting Parties, being parties to the Interim Agreement on International Civil Aviation and the International Air Services Transit Agreement, both signed at Chicago on the seventh day of December, 1944, the terms of which agreements are binding on both parties,
Considering That it is desirable to organise international air services in a safe and orderly manner and to further as much as possible the development of international cooperation in this field, and That it is desirable to stimulate international air travel, at the lowest rates consistent with sound economic principles, as a means of promoting friendly understanding and good will among peoples and securing the many indirect benefits of this new form of transportation to the common welfare of both countries, and That it is desirable to establish direct air communications between the United States of America and India, have accordingly appointed plenipotentiaries , who, being duly authorised to this effect, have agreed as follows :
ARTICLE I.
(A) Each Contracting Party grants to the other Contracting Party the right to operate the air services specified in the Annex to this Agreement ( hereinafter referred to as the "specified air services") and to carry traffic to, from and in transit over the territory of the other Party as provided in this Agreement.
(B) The air lines designated as provided in Article II hereof shall have the right to use

59 Stat. 1516. 59 Stat. 1693.
Right of operation. Post, p. 2582.

(i ) for traffic purposes, airports provided for public use at the points specified in the Annex to this Agreement and ancillary services provided for public use on the air routes specified in the said Annex (hereinafter referred to as the "specified air routes") and
(ii) for non-traffic purposes, all airports and ancillary services provided for public use on the specified air routes,

2574

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

subject in either case to such conditions as may normally be applicable thereto.
ARTICLE II .

Inauguration ofspecified air services.

(A) Each of the specified air services may be inaugurated imme-

diately or at a later date at the option of the Contracting Party to

whom the rights are granted, on condition that :

(1) The Contracting Party to whom the rights have been granted shall have designated an air line (hereinafter referred to as a "designated air line ") for the specified air route.

(2 ) The Contracting Party which grants the rights shall have given the appropriate operating permission to the air line pursuant to Paragraph (C) of this Article which it shall do with the least possible delay.

( B ) Substantial ownership and effective control of the designated air lines of each Contracting Party shall be vested in that Party or its nationals.
(C ) The designated air line may be required to satisfy the aeronautical authorities of the Contracting Party granting the rights that it is qualified to fulfil the conditions prescribed by or under the laws and regulations normally applied by those authorities to the operation of commercial air carriers .
(D) The operation of each of the specified air services shall be subject to the agreement of the Contracting Party concerned that the route organisation available for civil aviation on the specified air route is adequate for the safe operation of air services.
ARTICLE III.

Traffic rights in In- (A ) The air lines designated by the United States Government dian territory.
shall, subject to the provisions of Article IV, be entitled in Indian
territory to carry, set down or pick up traffic as detailed below :

(1) Traffic embarked in or destined for the United States. (2 ) Traffic between any two countries other than the United
States and India carried in transit across Indian territory and not embarked or disembarked in India.
( 3 ) Subject to the consent of the other State concerned, traffic embarked in the territory of a third country and destined for India, and traffic embarked in India and destined for a third country.

Traffic rights in U. S. territory.

(B ) The air lines designated by the Government of India, shall, subject to the provisions of Article IV, be entitled in United States territory to carry, set down or pick up traffic as detailed below :

(1 ) Traffic embarked in or destined for India. (2 ) Traffic between any two countries other than India and
the United States carried in transit across United States
territory and not embarked or disembarked in the United States.

61 STAT. ] INDIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- NOV. 14, 1946

2575

(3) Subject to the consent of the other State concerned , traffic embarked in the territory of a third country and destined for the United States, and traffic embarked in the United States and destined for a third country.

ARTICLE IV.

In order to maintain equilibrium between the capacity of the specified air services and the requirements of the public for air transport on the specified air routes and in order to maintain proper relationship between the specified air services and other air services operating on the specified air routes or sections thereof, the Contracting Parties agree as follows :

(A ) The air lines of each Contracting Party shall enjoy equal opportunity for the operation of air services between the territories of the two Parties.

Equal opportunity for operation of serv-
ices.

(B) To the extent that the air lines of one of the Contracting Parties are temporarily unable to take advantage of such opportunities as a result of the war , the situation will be mutually examined by the two Parties for the purpose of aiding as soon as possible the air lines concerned increasingly to make their proper contribution to the services contemplated.

(C) In the operation by the air lines of either Contracting Party

of the specified air services the interests of the air lines of the other

Party shall be taken into consideration so as not to affect unduly the

services which the latter provide on all or part of the same route.

(D ) The air transport offered by the air lines of both countries

should bear a close relationship to the requirements of the public for such air transport.
(E) The services provided by a designated air line under this Agreement shall retain as their primary objective the provision of

Provision of adequate capacity.

capacity adequate to the traffic demands between the country of which such air line is a national and the country of ultimate destination of

the traffic, and the right of the air lines of either Party to embark and

to disembark at points in the territory of the other Party international

traffic destined for or coming from third countries shall be applied in accordance with the general principles of orderly development to which both Parties subscribe and shall be subject to the general prin-

ciple that capacity shall be related :

(1) to traffic requirements between the country of origin of the air service and destinations on the specified air routes,
(2 ) to the requirements of through air line operation for fill-up traffic , and
(3) to the traffic requirements of the area through which the air line passes after taking account of other air transport services established by air lines of the States concerned between their respective territories.

2576

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ARTICLE V.

Connecting service.

When, for the purpose of economy of onward carriage of through traffic, different aircraft are used on different sections of a specified air route, with the point of change in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties, such change of aircraft shall not affect the provisions of this Agreement relating to the capacity of the air service and the carriage of traffic. In such cases the second aircraft shall be scheduled to provide a connecting service with the first aircraft, and shall normally await its arrival.
ARTICLE VI.

Determination of rates.
Approval ofrates.

(A) The determination of rates in accordance with the following paragraphs shall be made at reasonable levels, due regard being paid to all relevant factors, such as cost of operation, reasonable profit, and the rates charged by any other air lines, as well as the characteristics of each service.
(B) The rates to be charged by the air lines of either Contracting

Party between points in the territory of the United States and points

in Indian territory on the specified air routes shall be subject to the

approval of the aeronautical authorities of the Contracting Parties, who shall act in accordance with their obligations under this Agree-

ment, within the limits of their legal powers.

(C ) The Civil Aeronautics Board of the United States has ap-

proved the traffic conference machinery of the International Air

Transport Association for a period of one year beginning in Feb-

ruary 1946. Any rate agreements concluded through this machinery

during this period and involving United States air lines will be sub-

ject to approval by the Board . While neither Contracting Party desires in this Agreement to commit itself to any continued approval

of the traffic conference machinery of the International Air Transport

Association, both Parties express their desire to facilitate rate agree-

ments by means of machinery of this type, it being understood, how-

ever, that rates agreed upon through such machinery must be subject

Filing of proposed rates.

to the approval of the Contracting Parties of this Agreement. (D ) Any rate proposed by the air line or air lines of either Con-
tracting Party for carriage from the territory of one Contracting

Party to a point or points in the territory of the other Contracting Party shall be filed with the aeronautical authorities of both Contracting Parties at least thirty days before the proposed date of introduction ; provided that this period of thirty days may be reduced in particular cases if so agreed by the aeronautical authorities of both

Procedure if U. S. authorities are em-
eptocw.ered to fix rates,

Contracting Parties. (E) In the event that power is conferred by law upon the aeronau-
tical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic rates for the transport of persons and property by air on international

services and to suspend proposed rates in a manner comparable to that in which the Civil Aeronautics Board at present is empowered

to act with respect to such rates for the transport of persons and

property by air within the United States, the following procedure shall apply :

61 STAT.] INDIA- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- NOV. 14, 1946

2577

Notice of dissatis (1 ) If one of the Contracting Parties on receipt of the noti- faction with proposed
fication referred to in Paragraph ( D) above is dissatisfied rate.
with the rate proposed by the air line or air lines of the
other Contracting Party, it shall so notify the other Con-
tracting Party prior to the expiration of the first fifteen

of the thirty days referred to , and the Contracting Parties shall endeavour to reach agreement on the proposed rate.

(2 ) In the event that such agreement is reached, each Con-

tracting Party will exercise its statutory powers to give effect to such agreement.
(3 ) If agreement has not been reached at the end of the thirty-

Provisional rate pending settlement of

day period referred to in Paragraph (D) above, the pro- dispute.

posed rate may, unless the aeronautical authorities of the

country of the air line concerned see fit to suspend its

application, go into effect provisionally pending the settlement of any dispute by submitting the question to the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation , as

provided in Paragraph ( G ) below ; provided , however, that if the Provisional International Civil Aviation Or-

ganisation, or its successor, has not rendered its report on

the matter in dispute within a period of ninety days from the date of the submission to it of the question, the Con-

tracting Party raising the objection to the proposed rate may take such steps as it may consider necessary to pre-
vent the inauguration or continuation of the service in
question at the rate complained of. (F) In the event that the power referred to in Paragraph (E) Procedure if power
to fx rates, etc., is not above has not been conferred by law upon the aeronautical authorities conferred . of the United States, the following procedure shall apply :

(1 ) If one of the Contracting Parties on receipt of the notification referred to in Paragraph (D) above is dissatisfied with the rate proposed by the airline or airlines of the other Contracting Party it shall so notify the other Contracting Party prior to the expiration of the first fifteen of the thirty days referred to and the Contracting Parties shall endeavour to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.
(2) In the event that such agreement is reached , each Contracting Party will use its best efforts to cause such agreed rate to be put into effect by its air line or air lines. It is recognised that if such efforts are not successful the Contracting Party raising the objection to the rate may take such steps as it may consider necessary to prevent the inauguration or continuation of the service in question at the rate complained of.
(3 ) If agreement has not been reached at the end of the thirty days period referred to in Paragraph ( D) above the Contracting Party raising the objection to the rate may, if it so elects, take such steps as it may consider necessary to prevent the inauguration or continuation of the service in

2578

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Advisory report.

question at the rate complained of, pending the submission of the question to the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation as provided in Paragraph (G ) below.
(G) When in any case under Paragraphs ( E ) and ( F ) above the aeronautical authorities of the two Contracting Parties, after consultation as provided therein , cannot agree within a reasonable time upon the appropriate rate, both Contracting Parties shall, upon the request of either, submit the question to the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation for an advisory report, and each Party shall use its best efforts under the powers available to it to put into effect the opinion expressed in such report.
(H ) In order to give effect to the provisions of this section, the executive branch of the United States Government will use its best efforts to secure legislation empowering the aeronautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic rates for international
air services and to suspend proposed rates, in the same manner as the Civil Aeronautics Board is qualified to act with respect to air transportation within the United States.

ARTICLE VII.

Exchange of information concerning

(A) The aeronautical authorities of both Contracting Parties shall

authorizations, etc. exchange information as promptly as possible concerning the author-

isations extended to their respective designated air lines to render

service to, through and from the territory of the other Contracting Party. This will include copies of current certificates and authorisations for service on the specified air routes, together with amendments,

exemption orders and authorised service patterns.

( B ) Each Contracting Party shall cause its designated air lines to

provide to the aeronautical authorities of the other Contracting Party, as long in advance as practicable, copies of time tables , tariff schedules and all other similar relevant information concerning the operation

of the specified air services and of all modifications thereof. (C) Each Contracting Party shall, upon request, cause to be pro-
vided to the aeronautical authorities of the other Contracting Party copies of any reports relating to traffic carried on their air services to ,

59 Stat. 1516.

from or over the territory of the other Contracting Party which are required to be filed with the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944.
ARTICLE VIII .

Customs duties, etc. ( A ) Fuel, lubricating oils and spare parts introduced into or taken
on board aircraft in the territory of one Contracting Party by, or on
behalf of, the other Contracting Party or its designated air lines and
intended solely for use by the latter's aircraft shall be accorded , with respect to customs duty, inspection fees or other charges imposed by the former Contracting Party, treatment not less favourable than that

61 STAT.] INDIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- NOV. 14, 1946

2579

granted to its national air lines engaged in international public transport or to the air lines of the most favoured nation.
(B) Supplies of fuel, lubricating oils, spare parts, regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board aircraft of the designated air lines of one Contracting Party shall be exempt in the territory of the other Contracting Party from customs duties, inspection fees or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used by such aircraft on flights in that territory.

ARTICLE IX .

Each Contracting Party reserves the right to itself to withhold or revoke, or impose such appropriate conditions as it may deem necessary with respect to, an operating permission in case of failure by a

Right to impose ap-
propriate conditions, etc.

designated air line of the other Party to comply with the laws and

regulations of the former Party, or in case, in the judgment of the former Party, there is a failure to fulfil the conditions under which the

rights are granted in accordance with this Agreement. Except in case of a failure to comply with laws and regulations , such action shall be taken only after consultation between the Parties. In the event of

action by one Party under this Article, the rights of the other Party under Article XI shall not be prejudiced.

ARTICLE X.

(A ) In a spirit of close collaboration , the aeronautical authorities of the two Contracting Parties will consult regularly with a view to assuring the observance of the principles and the implementation of the provisions outlined in this Agreement.
(B) Either Contracting Party may at any time request consulta-

Consultations. Amendments.

tion with the other with a view to initiating any amendments of this

Agreement which may be desirable in the light of experience. Such

consultation shall begin within a period of sixty days from the date of

the request. Any modification of this Agreement agreed to as a result of such consultation shall come into effect when it has been

confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes. Notice of desire to
(C) When the procedure for consultation provided for in Para- terminate agreement.
graph (B) of this Article has been initiated, either Contracting Party
may at any time give notice to the other of its desire to terminate this

Agreement as provided in Paragraph ( E) of this Article . Such

notice shall be simultaneously communicated to the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation.
(D) Changes made by either Contracting Party in the specified air routes, except those which change the points served by the designated

Changes in air routes.

air lines in the territory of the other Contracting Party, shall not be

considered as modifications of this Agreement. The aeronautical

authorities of either Contracting Party may therefore proceed unilaterally to make such changes, provided , however, that notice of any

Notice of change.

change shall be given without delay to the aeronautical authorities of

the other Contracting Party. If such latter aeronautical authorities find that, having regard to the principles set forth in Article IV of

Ante, p. 2575.

2580

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Termination.

this Agreement, the interests of any of their air lines are prejudiced by the carriage by a designated air line of the first Contracting Party of traffic between the territory of the second Contracting Party and the new point in the territory of a third country, the latter Party may request consultation in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph (B ) of this Article.
(E ) This Agreement shall terminate one year after the date of receipt by the other Contracting Party of the notice to terminate, unless the notice is withdrawn by agreement before the expiration of this period. In the absence of acknowledgment of receipt by the other Contracting Party notice shall be deemed to have been received fourteen days after the receipt of the notice by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation.

ARTICLE XI.

Disputes. 59 Stat. 1521.

Any dispute between the Contracting Parties relating to the interpretation or application of this Agreement, which cannot be settled
through consultation, shall be referred for an advisory report to the Interim Council of the Provisional International Civil Avia-
tion Organisation , in accordance with the provisions of Article III , Section 6 ( 8 ) , of the Interim Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944, and the executive authorities of each Contracting Party will use their best efforts under the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in such report.
ARTICLE XII.

Entry into force; registration .

This Agreement shall come into force on the day it is signed . The Agreement and all relative contracts shall be registered with the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation set up by the

59 Stat. 1516.

Interim Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944.
ARTICLE XIII.

(A) When the Convention on International Civil Aviation signed 116810. Stat., Pt. 2, P. at Chicago on December 7, 1944, comes into operation in respect of
both the Contracting Parties reference in this Agreement to the Interim Agreement and the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation shall be interpreted as reference to the Convention and the corresponding organisation established pursuant thereto. In

the event of the conclusion of any other multilateral convention con-

cerning air transport to which both Contracting Parties adhere, this

Agreement shall be modified to conform with the provisions of such convention .

"Territory"; "air service"; "interna- (B ) For the purpose of this Agreement the terms "territory", "air
t"iaoinralline"ai.r service"; service", "international air service" and "air line" shall have the

meaning specified in the Interim Agreement on International Civil

59 Stat. 1516.

Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944.

"Aeronautical authorities".

(C) The term "aeronautical authorities" shall mean, in the case of

India, the Director General of Civil Aviation in India and, in the

61 STAT.] INDIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-NOV. 14, 1946

2581

case of the United States, the Civil Aeronautics Board, and in both cases any person or body authorised to perform the functions presently exercised by the above mentioned authorities.
(D) The Annex to this Agreement shall be deemed to be part of the Agreement and all references to the "Agreement" shall include references to the Annex, except where otherwise expressly provided.
In witness whereof the undersigned plenipotentiaries, being duly authorised thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present Agreement.
Done this fourteenth day of November 1946 in duplicate at New Delhi.

Annex.

For the Government of India : [SEAL ]

JAWAHARLAL NEHRU Member for External Affairs.
ABDUR RAB NISHTAR Member for Communications.

These signatures are appended in agreement with His Majesty's Representative for the exercise of the functions of the Crown in its relations with the Indian States.

For the Government of the United States of America : GEORGE R. MERRELL Charge d'Affaires a. i.
Embassy of the United States of America. GEORGE A. BROWNELL
Personal Representative of the President of the United States.

95347-49- PT. III- -20

2582

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
ANNEX
1. An air line designated by the United States Government shall be entitled to operate air services on each of the routes specified and to make scheduled landings in India at the points specified in this paragraph :
Route 1 : The United States through Central Europe and the Near East to Karachi , Delhi and Calcutta, thence to a point in Burma , a point in Siam, a point in Indo China and beyond to the United States over various routes ; via intermediate points in both directions.
Route 2 : The United States through Western Europe, North Africa and the Near East to Bombay and beyond Bombay to : ( a ) Calcutta, a point in Burma , a point in Indo China , points in China, points in Japan and beyond to the United States over Pacific routes ; via intermediate points in both directions ; (b) Ceylon, Singapore and beyond ; via intermediate points in both directions.
2. An air line designated by the Government of India shall be entitled to operate air services on each of the routes to , from and across United States territory to be mutually agreed at a later date. 3. (A) Points on any of the specified routes may, at the option of the designated air line, be omitted on any or all flights.
( B) If, at any time, scheduled flights on any of the specified air services of one Contracting Party are operated so as to terminate in the territory of the other Contracting Party and not as part of a through air service extending beyond such territory, the latter Party shall have the right to nominate the terminal point of such scheduled flights on the specified air route in its territory. The latter Party shall give not less than six months notice to the other Party if it decides to nominate a new terminal point for such scheduled flights.

61 STAT.] INDIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES -NOV. 14, 1946
The Secretary to the Government of India to the American Chargé d'Affaires
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA. DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS.

From

NEW DELHI, the 14th November 1946.

SIR HAROLD SHOOBERT, C.I.E. , E.D. , I.C.S. ,

Secretary to the Government of India,

To

The Chargé d'Affaires of the United States of America, New Delhi. SIR,
I am directed to refer to the Agreement between the Government of India and the Government of the United States of America relating to air services which has been signed on behalf of both Governments today, and to say, with regard to two matters which have been discussed, that the understanding of the Government of India is as follows :

1. Ratification of the Convention on International Civil Aviation.

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of India, having both ratified the Convention on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on the seventh day of December 1944, it is understood to be the intention of both Governments to deposit their instruments of ratification of the Convention on or before the 1st day of March 1947. In the event that either Government should fail to complete the necessary steps whereby they will become bound by the provisions of the Convention when it enters into force, it is agreed that the two Governments will consult together and will enter into a supplementary agreement giving effect to the following articles of the Convention namely Articles 11 , 13 , 15 , 32 and 33 and such other articles as may be mutually agreed to be applicable and necessary .

2. Regulation of rates for Fifth Freedom Traffic.

It is recognised that the determination of rates to be applied by an air line of one Contracting Party between the territory of the other Contracting Party and a third country is a complex question, the overall solution of which cannot be sought through consultation between only two countries. It is noted, furthermore, that the method of determining such rates is now being studied by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation. It is understood under these circumstances :

(1) That, pending the acceptance by both Parties of any recommendations which the Provisional International Civil Aviation Or-
ganization may make after its study of this matter, such rates shall be fixed on the basis of the principles set out in Paragraph ( A) of Article VI of the Agreement and after taking into consideration the interests

2583

2584

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
of the air lines of the other Party and shall not vary unduly in a discriminatory manner from the rates established by the air lines of the other Party operating air services on that part of the specified air routes concerned . Provided , however, that a designated air line under the Agreement shall not be required to charge rates higher than those established by any other air line operating on the specified air routes.
(2 ) That in case the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization fails to establish a means of determining such rates satisfactory to both Contracting Parties within a reasonable time, the consultation provided for in Article X of the Agreement shall be inaugurated.
I am to request that you will be good enough to confirm your understanding on these matters to be as set out in this letter.
I have the honour to be, Sir, Your most obedient servant, W. H. SHOOBERT Secretary to the Government of India.

The American Chargé d'Affaires to the Secretary to the Government of India
EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 174

New Delhi, November 14, 1946

SIR HAROLD SHOOBERT, C.I.E. , E.D. , I.C.S. , Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of Communications (Post and Air) , New Delhi.
SIR :
I have the honor to refer to your note of today's date on the subject of the Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of India relating to air services signed on behalf of both our Governments today, and to state, with regard to two matters which have been under discussion, that the understanding of the Government of the United States of America is as follows :

1. Ratification of the Convention on International Civil Aviation.

The Government of India and the Government of the United States of America, having both ratified the Convention on International Civil 116810. Stat. , Pt. 2, p. Aviation signed at Chicago on the seventh day of December 1944 , it is understood to be the intention of both Governments to deposit their instruments of ratification of the Convention on or before the first day of March 1947. In the event that either Government should fail to complete the necessary steps whereby they will become bound by the provisions of the Convention when it enters into force , it is agreed that the two Governments will consult together and will enter into a supplementary agreement giving effect to the following articles of the

61 STAT. ] INDIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-NOV. 14, 1946

2585

61 Stat. , Pt. 2, pp. Convention, namely Articles 11, 13, 15, 32 and 33 , and such other articles 1183, 1184, 1189. as may be mutually agreed to be applicable and necessary.
2. Regulation of Rates for Fifth Freedom Traffic.

It is recognized that the determination of rates to be applied by an an air line of one Contracting Party between the territory of the other Contracting Party and a third country is a complex question, the overall solution of which cannot be sought through consultation between only two countries. It is noted, furthermore, that the method of determining such rates is now being studied by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization. It is understood under these circumstances :

(1) That, pending the acceptance by both Parties of any recommendations which the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization may make after its study of this matter, such rates shall be fixed on the basis of the principles set out in Paragraph ( a ) of Article VI of the Agreement and after taking into consideration the interests of the air lines of the other Party and shall not vary unduly in a discriminatory manner from the rates established by the air lines of the other Party operating air services on that part of the specified air routes concerned . Provided, however, that a designated air line under the Agreement shall not be required to charge rates higher than those established by any other air line operating on the specified air routes.
(2) That in case the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization fails to establish a means of determining such rates satisfactory to both Contracting Parties within a reasonable time, the consultation provided for in Article X of this Agreement shall be inaugurated.
I have the honor to be, Sir, Your obedient servant, GEORGE R. MERRELL
Charge d'Affaires a.i.

Ante, p. 2576. Ante, p. 2579.

2586

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

December 27, 1946,
May 6, 8, July 21 , 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1587]

Agreement between the United States of America and Peru, and accompanying notes, respecting air transport services . Signed at Lima December 27, 1946; entered into force December 27, 1946. And agreement effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington May 6 and 8, and July 21 , 1947; entered into force July 21 , 1947.

AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT

The Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Peru, desiring to stimulate and promote the development of Air Transportation between both countries, and having in mind the recommendations of Section VIII of the Final Act of the Conference on International Civil Aviation, signed in Chicago on the seventh of December, 1944 , [ ' ] have resolved to sign an Air Transport Agreement and for that purpose have designated their respective Plenipotentiaries to wit:

His Excellency the President of the United States of America, Their Excellencies
Mr. Prentice Cooper, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary before the Government of Peru, and
Mr. William Mitchell, Special Representative and Minister Plenipotentiary specially acredited for this purpose,
His Excellency the President of the Republic of Peru, Their Excellencies Señores
Enrique Garcia Sayán, Minister for Foreign Affairs , and Enrique Góngora, Minister of Aeronautics .

who , after exchanging their full powers which they have found to be in good and proper form, have agreed that the establishment and development of Air Transport Services between their respective territories shall be subject to the provisions of the present Agreement and of its Annex as follows :

ARTICLE 1

Each contracting party grants to the other contracting party the rights as specified in the Annex hereto necessary for establishing the international civil air routes and services therein described , whether such services be inaugurated immediately or at a later date at the option of the contracting party to whom the rights are granted.

ARTICLE 2

Inauguration of air

services.

Each of the air services so described shall be placed in operation as

soon as the contracting party to whom the rights have been granted by article 1 to designate an airline or airlines for the route concerned

1 ¹ [International Civil Aviation Conference, Chicago, Illinois , November 1 to
December 7, 1944, Final Act and Related Documents, Department of State publi-
cation 2282, p. 39.]

Dec. 27, 1946 61 STAT. ] PERU--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- May 6, 8, July 21, 1947

2587

has authorized an airline for such route, and the contracting party granting the rights shall, subject to article 6 hereof, be bound to give the appropriate operating permission to the airline or airlines concerned ; provided that the airlines so designated may be required to qualify before the competent aeronautical authorities of the contracting party granting the rights under the laws and regulations normally applied by these authorities before being permitted to engage in the operations contemplated by this agreement ; and provided that in areas of hostilities or of military occopation , or in areas affected thereby, such operations shall be subject to the approval of the competent military authorities.

ARTICLE 3
Prevention of disIn order to prevent discriminatory practices and to assure equality criminatory practices,
etc. of treatment, both contracting parties agree that :

a) Each of the contracting parties may impose or permit to be imposed just and reasonable charges for the use of public airports and other facilities under its control . Each of the contracting parties agrees, however, that these charges shall not be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services.
b) Fuel, lubricating oils, and spare parts introduced into the territory of one contracting party by the other contracting party or its nationals, and intended solely for use by aircraft of the airlines of such contracting party shall, with respect to the imposition of customs duties, inspection fees or other national duties or charges by the contracting party whose territory is entered, be accorded the same treatment as that applying to national airlines and to airlines of the most-favored nation .

c) The fuel, lubricating oils , spare parts, regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board civil aircraft of the airlines of one contracting party authorized to operate the routes and services described in the Annex shall , upon arriving in or leaving the territory of the other contracting party, be exempt from customs, inspection fees or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used or consumed by such aircraft on flights in that territory.

Post, p. 2590.

ARTICLE 4

Certificates of airworthiness, certificate of competency and licenses

Certificates of airworthiness, etc.

issued or rendered valid by one contracting party and still in force

shall be recognized as valid by the other contracting party for the purpose of operating the routes and services described in the Annex. Post, p. 2590.

Each contracting party reserves the right, however, to refuse to recognize, for the purpose of flight above its own territory, certificates of competency and licenses granted to its own nationals by another state .
ARTICLE 5

a) The laws and regulations of one contracting party relating to Laws and regulations.
the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged in

2588

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of such aircraft while within its territoy, shall be applied to the aircraft of airlines designated by the other contracting party, and shall be complied with by such aircraft upon entering or departing from or while within the territory of the first party.
b) The laws and regulations of one contracting party as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers , crew, or cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance, inmigration, passports , customs and quarantine shall be complied with by or on behalf of such passengers , crew or cargo of the airlines designated by the other contracting party upon entrance into or departure from or while within the territory of the first party.

ARTICLE 6

Withholding or revocation of certificate Each contracting party reserves the right to withhold or revoke

or permit.

the certificate or permit of an airline designated by the other con-

tracting party in the event substantial ownership and effective control of such airlines are not vested in nationals of the other contracting

party, or in case of failure by the airline designated by the other

contracting party to comply with the laws and regulations of the contracting party over whose territory it operates , as described in Article 5 hereof, or otherwise to fulfill the conditions under which the rights are granted in accordance with this agreement and its Annex.

ARTICLE 7

Registry ment.

of agree-

This agreement, its Annex, and all amendments thereof, shall be registered with the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or its successor.

Termination.

ARTICLE 8
This agreement or any of the rights for air transport services granted thereunder may be terminated by either contracting party upon giving one year's notice to the other contracting party.

ARTICLE 9

Request for con-

sultation .

In the event either of the contracting parties considers it desirable

Post, p. 2590.

to modify the routes or conditions set forth in the attached Annex, it

may request consultation between the competent authorities of both

contracting parties, such consultation to begin within a period of

sixty days from the date of the request.

When these authorities mutually agree on new or revised condi-

tions affecting the Annex, their recommendations on the matter will

come into effect after they have been confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes.

ARTICLE 10

Submission of controversy for advisory

Except as otherwise provided in this agreement, or its Annex, any

report.

controversy between the contracting parties relative to the interpre-

tation or application of this agreement , or its Annex, which cannot be

settled through consultation shall be submitted for an advisory report to the Interim Council of the Provisional International Civil

Dec. 27, 1946 61 STAT. ] PERU--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- May 6, 8, July 21 , 1947

2589

Aviation Organization , in accordance with the provisions of Article III, Section six (8) of the Provisional Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7 , 1944 or to its successor, unless the contracting parties agree to submit the contro-

versy to some other person or body designated by mutual agreement between the same contracting parties. The executive authorities of

the contracting parties will use their best efforts under the powers

available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in such

report.

ARTICLE 11

59 Stat. 1521.

For the purpose of the present Agreement, and its Annex, except

where the text provides otherwise : "Aeronautical au
a) The term " aeronautical authorities" shall mean in the case thorities."
of the United States of America the Civil Aeronautics Board and any
person or agency authorized to perform the functions exercised at

the present time by the Civil Aeronautics Board or similar functions , and, in the case of Peru , the Minister of Aeronautics and any person or agency authorized to perform the functions exercised at present by the said Minister.
b) The term " designated airlines" shall mean those airlines that

"Designated airlines."

the aeronautical authorities of one of the contracting parties have

communicated in writing to the aeronautical authorities of the

other contracting party that they are the airlines that it has designated in conformity with Article 1 and 2 of the present Agreement

Ante, p. 2586.

for the routes specified in such designation .

ARTICLE 12

This agreement, including the provisions of the Annex thereof, will come into force on the day it is signed.

Entry into force.

In witness whereof, the undersigned , being duly authorized by
their respective Governments, have signed the present agreement. Authentic lan.
Done at Lima this 27th. day of December, 1946 , in duplicate in guages.
the English and Spanish languages, each of which shall be of equal
authenticity .

For the Government of the United States of America: PRENTICE COOPER WILLIAM MITCHELL

For the Government of the Republic of Peru: E. GARCÍA SAYAN E. GÓNGORA
Attachment : Annex to Air Transport Agreement

2590

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. ANNEX TO AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT

Equal opportunity for operation ofroutes.

It is agreed between the contracting parties : A. That the airlines of the two contracting parties operating on the routes described in this Annex shall enjoy fair and equal oppor-

Capacity.

tunity for the operation of the said routes. B. That the air transport capacity offered by the airlines of both
countries shall bear a close relationship to traffic requirements.

C. That in the operation of common sections of trunk routes the

airlines of the contracting parties shall take into account their recipro-

cal interests so as not to affect unduly their respective services.

D. That the services provided by a designated airline under this

agreement and its Annex shall retain as their primary objetive the provision of capacity adequate to the traffic demands between the

country, or points under its jurisdiction , of which such airline is a

national and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic.

Right to embark,

etc.

E. That the right to embark and to disembark at points under the

jurisdiction of the other country international traffic destined for or

coming from third countries at a point or points hereinafter specified ,

shall be applied in accordance with the general principles of orderly

development to which both Governments subscribe and shall be sub-

ject to the general principle that capacity shall be related :

1. To traffic requirements between the country of origin, or points under its jurisdiction, and the countries of destination .

2. To the requirements of through airline operation , and

3. To the traffic requirements of the area through which the airline

passes after taking account of local and regional services.

Determination of

rates.

F. That the determination of rates to be charged by the airlines

of either contracting party between points under the jurisdiction of

the United States of America and points in the territory of the Re-

public of Peru on the routes specified in this Annex shall be made at

reasonable levels , due regard being paid to all relevant factors , such as

Consultation.

cost of operation , reasonable profit, and the rates charged by any other carriers, as well as the characteristics of each service.
G. That the appropriate aeronautical authorities of each of the con-

tracting parties will consult from time to time, or at the request of

one of the parties, to determine the extent to which the principles

set forth in paragraphs A to F inclusive of this Annex are being follow-

ed by the airlines designated by the contracting parties. When these

authorities agree on further measures necesary to give these principles

practical application , the executive authorities of each of the con-

tracting parties will use their best efforts under the powers available

to them to put such measures into effect.

U. S. rights of transit and stop in Peru.

H. Airlines of the United States of America, designated in conform-

ity with the present agreement, are accorded rights of transit and of

nontraffic stop in and through the territory of the Republic of Peru

as well as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in

passengers , cargo, and mail at Lima, Talara, Chiclayo and Arequipa

on the following route via intermediate points in both directions:

Dec. 27, 1946 61 STAT. ] PERU-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- May 6, 8, July 21 , 1947

2591

The United States and/or the Canal Zone to Talara , Chiclayo , Lima and Arequipa ; and beyond Peru, to points in Chile and Bolivia or beyond.

On the above route the airline or airlines authorized to operate the
route may operate nonstop flights between any of the points enumer-
ated omitting stops at one or more of the other points so enumerated . Peruvian rights of
I. Airlines of the Republic of Peru , designated in conformity with transit and stop in the present agreement, are accorded rights of transit and of nontraffic U.S.and Canal Zone.

stop in and through the territory of the United States of America and in and through the Canal Zone as well as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers , cargo, and mail at Washington D. C. , New York, N. Y. , and the Canal Zone on the following route via intermediate points in both directions :

From Peru via the Canal Zone and Havana , Cuba, to Washington, D. C. , and New York, N. Y ; and beyond the United States to Montreal, Canada.

On the above route the airline or airlines authorized to operate the route may operate nonstop flights between any of the points enumerated omitting stops at one or more of the other points so enumerated .
PRENTICE COOPER

Nonstop flights.

WILLIAM MITCHELL E. GARCÍA SAYAN E. GÓNGORA

2592

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ACUERDO SOBRE TRANSPORTE AEREO
Los Gobiernos de los Estados Unidos de América y del Perú deseosos de estimular y fomentar el adelanto del transporte aéreo entre ambos países ; y teniendo en cuenta la Recomendación VIII de la Conferencia Internacional de Aviación Civil , reunida en Chicago el 7 de diciembre de 1944, han resuelto suscribir un Acuerdo sobre Transporte Aéreo , a cuyo efecto han designado sus respectivos Plenipotenciarios , a saber :
Su Excelencia el señor Presidente de los Estados Unidos de América a los Excelentísimos señores
Prentice Cooper, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario ante el Gobierno del Perú , y
William Mitchell, Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario especialmente acreditado para este efecto ;
Su Excelencia el señor Presidente de la República del Perú a los Excelentísimos señores
Enrique García Sayán, Ministro de Estado en el Despacho de Relaciones Exteriores , y
Enrique Góngora, Ministro de Estado en el Despacho de Aeronáutica ;
quienes, después de cambiar sus Plenos Poderes que encontraron en buena y debida forma, han convenido en que el establecimiento y desarrollo de los servicios de transporte aéreo en sus respectivos territorios se sujeten a las estipulaciones del presente Acuerdo y de su Anexo, que siguen:
ARTICULO I
Cada Parte Contratante concede a la otra Parte Contratante los derechos especificados en el anexo adjunto , necesarios para establecer las rutas aéreas civiles y los servicios internacionales descritos en dicho Anexo, ya sea que tales servicios sean inaugurados inmediatamente o en fecha posterior , a opción de la Parte Contratante a la que se otorgan dichos derechos.
ARTICULO II
Cada uno de los servicios aéreos así descritos , será puesto en operación tan pronto como la Parte Contratante, a la cual se ha concedido por el Artículo I el derecho de designar una línea aérea o líneas aéreas para la ruta respectiva, haya autorizado una línea aérea para tal ruta ; y la Parte Contratante que otorga los derechos estará obligada , conforme al Artículo VI de este Acuerdo , a conceder el permiso de operaciones pertinente a la línea aérea o líneas aéreas respectivas ; teniéndose entendido que las líneas aéreas así designadas , antes de ser autorizadas para iniciar las operaciones contempladas en este Acuerdo, podrán

61 STAT. ] PERU-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES - May Dec. 27, 1946 6, 8, July 21, 1947
ser sometidas a calificación por las autoridades aeronáuticas competentes de la Parte Contratante que otorga los derechos , dentro de las leyes y reglamentos normalmente aplicados por dichas autoridades ; y teniéndose igualmente entendido que tales operaciones estarán sujetas a la aprobación de las autoridades militares competentes, en áreas de hostilidades o de ocupación militar, en areas afectadas por las mismas .
ARTICULO III
Con el fin de impedir prácticas discriminatorias y de asegurar igualdad de tratamiento , ambas Partes Contratantes acuerdan que:
a) .-Cada una de las Partes Contratantes podrá imponer o permitir que se impongan gravámenes justos y razonables por el uso de aeropuertos públicos y de otras facilidades bajo su control . Sin embargo, cada una de las Partes Contratantes conviene en que esos gravámenes no serán mayores que los que afecten a sus aeronaves nacionales empleadas en servicios internacionales similares , por el uso de tales aeropuertos y facilidades .
b) .-El combustible , los aceites lubrificantes y las piezas de repuesto importados al territorio de una Parte Contratante por la otra Parte Contratante o por sus nacionales , para el uso exclusivo de las aeronaves de las líneas aéreas de tal parte contratante, estarán con respecto a la imposición de derechos de aduana , derechos de inspección y otros derechos o gravámenes nacionales aplicados por la Parte Contratante hacia cuyo territorio se importan, sujetos al mismo tratamiento que se aplique a las líneas aéreas nacionales y a las líneas aéreas de la nación más favorecida.
c) .-El combustible , los aceites lubrificantes, las piezas de repuesto , el equipo normal y los artículos almacenados abordo de aeronaves civiles de las líneas aéreas de una Parte Contratante, autorizadas para operar las rutas y servicios descritos en el Anexo , deberán estar exonerados, a su llegada o partida del territorio de la otra Parte Contratante, de derechos de aduana, derechos de inspección , u otros derechos o gravámenes similares, aún cuando tales artículos sean usados o consumidos por dichos aviones en vuelo sobre dicho territorio .
ARTICULO IV
Los certificados de aeronavegabilidad , los certificados de competencia y las licencias, expedidos o reconocidos como válidos por una Parte Contratante, y aún en vigencia, serán reconocidos como válidos por la otra Parte Contratante, con el fín de operar las rutas y servicios descritos en el Anexo . Cada Parte Contratante se reserva el derecho , sin embargo, para los efectos de vuelo sobre su propio territorio, de rehusar el reconocimiento de certificados de competencia y licencias expedidos a favor de sus propios nacionales , por otro Estado.
ARTICULO V
a).-Las leyes y los reglamentos de una Parte Contratante relativos a la admisión en o partida de su territorio de las aeronaves dedicadas a la navegación aérea internacional, o relativos a la operación y

2593

2594

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
navegación de tales aeronaves mientras se hallen en o sobre su propio territo , serán aplicados a las aeronaves de las líneas aéreas designadas por la otra Parte Contratante, y serán cumplidos por tales aeronaves a la entrada al , salida del y permanencia en o sobre el territorio de la primera Parte Contratante .
b) .-Las leyes y los reglamentos de una Parte Contratante , relativos a la admisión en o partida de su propio territorio, de pasajeros , tripulación o carga de aeronaves , tales como los reglamentos relativos. a entrada, despacho , inmigración, pasaportes , aduanas y cuarentenas , serán cumplidos por, en nombre de o por razón de tales pasajeros, tripulaciones o carga, de las líneas aéreas designadas por la otra Parte Contratante, a la entrada al, salida del y permanencia en o sobre el territorio de la primera Parte Contratante .
ARTICULO VI Cada Parte Contratante se reserva el derecho de suspender o revocar el certificado o permiso de operaciones de una línea aérea designada por la otra Parte Contratante , en el caso de que la propiedad sustancial y el control efectivo de tal línea aérea no se halle en manos de nacionales de la otra Parte Contratante, o en caso de falta por parte de la línea aérea designada por la otra Parte Contratante , al no cumplir las leyes y los reglamentos de la Parte Contratante sobre cuyo territorio opera, según se especifica en el Artículo V, o al no cumplir de otra manera las condiciones bajo las cuales se le han otorgado los derechos, de conformidad con este Acuerdo y su Anexo.
ARTICULO VII
Este Acuerdo , su Anexo y todas las modificaciones que pudieran convenirse deberán ser registrados en la Organización Provisional de Aviación Civil Internacional , o en la entidad que la suceda.
ARTICULO VIII
Este Acuerdo o cualquiera de los derechos relativos a servicios de transporte aéreo otorgados en su virtud , podrán darse por terminados por cualquiera de las Partes Contratantes, mediante aviso previo de un año a la otra Parte Contratante .
ARTICULO IX
En el caso de que cualquiera de las Partes Contratantes deseara modificar las rutas o condiciones establecidas en el Anexo , podrá promover consultas entre las autoridades competentes de ambas Partes Contratantes , debiendo iniciarse dichas consultas dentro de un plazo de sesenta días, contado a partir de la fecha de la solicitación. Cuando estas autoridades acuerden condiciones nuevas o revisadas que afecten al Anexo , sus recomendaciones serán puestas en vigencia después de que hayan sido confirmadas por un cambio de notas diplomáticas .

Dec. 27, 1946 61 STAT. ] PERU-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-
May 6, 8, July 21 , 1947
ARTICULO X
Salvo que se especifique de otro modo en este Acuerdo , o su Anexo , cualquier controversia entre las Partes Contratantes relativa a la interpretación o aplicación de este Acuerdo , o de su Anexo , que no pudiera ser resuelta por medio de consultas , deberá ser sometida, para los efectos de un informe consultivo , al Consejo Interino de la Organización Provisional de Aviación Civil Internacional, de acuerdo con lo establecido en el Artículo III , Sección seis, parágrafo 8 del Convenio Provisional sobre Aviación Civil Internacional, suscrito en Chicago en 7 de Diciembre de 1944 , o al Organismo que la suceda , a menos que las Partes Contratantes convengan en someter la controversia a algún otro organismo o persona designado de común acuerdo por las mismas Partes Contratantes. Las autoridades ejecutivas de las Partes Contratantes realizarán sus mejores esfuerzos , dentro de sus facultades, para atenerse a la opinión expresada en tal informe consultivo .
ARTICULO XI
Para los fines de este Acuerdo , y de su Anexo, a menos que se estipule de otro modo :
a).-La expresión "autoridades aeronáuticas" significará, en el caso de los Estados Unidos de América, la "Civil Aeronautics Board" y cualquiera persona o agencia autorizada para ejercer las funciones actualmente ejercidas por la "Civil Aeronautics Board", o para ejercer funciones similares, y, en el caso del Perú , el Ministro de Aeronáutica y cualquiera persona o agencia autorizada para ejercer las funciones actualmente ejercidas por dicho Ministro ;
b) .-La expresión "líneas aéreas designadas " significará aquellas líneas aéreas respecto de las cuales las autoridades aeronáuticas de una de las Partes Contratantes hayan comunicado por escrito a las autoridades aeronáuticas de la otra Parte Contratante, que son las líneas aéreas por ella designadas, de conformidad con los artículos I y II del presente Acuerdo , para las rutas especificadas en tal designación .
ARTICULO XII
Este Acuerdo , incluyendo las disposiciones del anexo , entre en vigencia en la fecha.
En fe de lo cual, los Plenipotenciarios arriba nombrados firman el presente Acuerdo , en idiomas español e inglés, en doble ejemplar, en Lima, a los veintisiete días del mes de diciembre de mil novecientos cuarenta y seis.
PRENTICE COOPER WILLIAM MITCHELL E. GARCÍA SAYAN E GÓNGORA

2595

2596

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
ANEXO AL ACUERDO SOBRE TRANSPORTE AEREO ENTRE EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA Y DE LA REPUBLICA DEL PERU
Ambas Partes Contratantes convienen en :
A.-Que las líneas aéreas de ambas Partes Contratantes, que operen en las rutas descritas en este Anexo , gozarán de justas e iguales oportunidades en la explotación de dichas rutas .
B.-Que la capacidad de transporte aéreo ofrecida por las líneas aéreas de ambos países deberá guardar una estrecha relación con las necesidades del tránsito .
C.-Que en la explotación de las secciones comunes de las rutas troncales las líneas aéreas de las Partes Contratantes deberán tener en cuenta sus intereses recíprocos , a fín de no afectar indebidamente sus respectivos servicios .
D.-Que los servicios proporcionados por una línea aérea designada de conformidad con este Acuerdo , y su Anexo mantendran , como objetivo principal , la provisión de una capacidad adecuada a la demanda del tránsito entre el país al que pertenece tal línea aérea, o lugares bajo su jurisdicción, y aquel país al que está destinado el tránsito .
E. -Que el derecho de embarcar y desembarcar en lugares bajo la jurisdicción del otro país las personas u objetos de tránsito internacional, destinados hacia o provenientes de terceros países , en un lugar o lugares que a continuación se especifican , será ejercido de acuerdo con los principios generales de desarrollo ordenado , a los cuales ambos Gobiernos se someten ; y estará sujeto al principio general de que la capacidad deberá guardar relación con :
1.-Las necesidades del tránsito entre el país de origen, o lugares bajo su jurisdicción , y los países de destino ;
2.-Las necesidades inherentes a líneas que operan a través de varios países ; y
3.-Las necesidades del tránsito de la zona a través de la cual opera la línea aérea, después de tomar en cuenta los servicios locales y regionales .
F.-Que la determinación de las tarifas a cobrarse por las líneas aéreas de cualquiera de las Partes Contratantes entre puntos bajo la jurisdicción de los Estados Unidos de América y puntos en territorio peruano en las rutas especificadas en este Anexo , deberán ser razonables, teniendo en cuenta todos los factores pertinentes, tales como , gastos de explotación, utilidades equitativas, tarifas cobradas por cualquier otra empresa, así como las características de cada servicio.
G.-Que las autoridades aeronáuticas competentes de ambas Partes Contratantes se consultarán de tiempo en tiempo, o a pedido de una de las partes, para determinar hasta qué punto los principios enunciados en los párrafos A a F inclusive de este Anexo son observados por las líneas aéreas designadas por cada una de las Partes Contratantes. Cuando dichas autoridades convengan en medidas adicionales , necesarias para dar aplicación práctica a tales principios , las autoridades

61 STAT. ] PERU-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-

Dec. 27, 1946

May 6, 8, July 21, 1947

ejecutivas de cada una de las Partes Contratantes realizarán sus mejores esfuerzos, dentro de sus facultades , para poner en vigencia tales medidas.
H.-Las líneas aéreas de los Estados Unidos de América designadas conforme al presente Acuerdo gozarán de los derechos de tránsito y de parada técnica, en y a través del territorio de la República del Perú, así como del derecho de embarcar y desembarcar pasajeros , carga y correo en tránsito internacional, en Lima, Talara, Chiclayo y Arequipa, en la siguiente ruta, vía puntos intermedios en ambas direcciones .

De los Estados Unidos de América, y o la Zona del Canal, a Talara, Chiclayo, Lima y Arequipa ; y más allá del Perú, a lugares en Chile y Bolivia o más allá.
En la ruta arriba indicada, la línea o líneas aéreas autorizadas para operarla, podrán efectuar vuelos sin escalas entre cualesquiera de los lugares enumerados, omitiendo escalas en uno o más de los otros lugares enumerados .

I.-Las líneas aéreas de la República del Perú designadas conforme al presente Acuerdo , gozarán de los derechos de tránsito y de parada técnica, en y a través del territorio de los Estados Unidos de América

y en y a través de la Zona del Canal , así como del derecho de embarcar y desembarcar pasajeros, carga y correo en tránsito internacional, en Washington, D. C. , Nueva York, N. Y. , y la Zona del Canal, en la siguiente ruta, vía puntos intermedios en ambas direcciones:

Del Perú, vía Zona del Canal y Habana , Cuba, a Washington,

D. C. , Nueva York, N. Y.; y más allá de los Estados Unidos de

América a Montreal, Canadá.

En la ruta arriba indicada, la línea o líneas aéreas autorizadas para

operarla, podrán efectuar vuelos sin escalas entre cualesquiera de los

lugares enumerados , omitiendo escalas en uno o más de los otros

lugares enumerados .

Lima , 27 de diciembre de 1946 .

PRENTICE COOPER

WILLIAM MITCHELL

E. GARCÍA SAYAN E GÓNGORA

2597

95347°-49- PT. III- -21

2598

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

N°: (D)-6-Y/5

LIMA, 27 de diciembre de 1946.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Tengo a honra dirigirme a Vuestra Excelencia, de conformidad con una solicitud del Ministerio de Aeronáutica, para exponer la manera

como el Gobierno peruano entiende y se propone poner en ejecución el Acuerdo sobre Transporte Aéreo entre el Perú y los Estados Unidos de América, suscrito en la fecha.
El Gobierno del Perú desea llamar la atención sobre el hecho de

que, cuando menos hasta hoy, no es posible designar una o varias líneas aéreas , que estén sustancialmente bajo propiedad y control efectivo de nacionales peruanos , para que ellas gocen de los derechos que se conceden por el indicado Acuerdo . Esto se debe a que el tiempo es un factor imprescindible para adiestrar personal técnico y administrativo , así como para atraer al capital necesario .
La experiencia de los último meses conduce a la conclusión de que el Gobierno del Perú podrá fomentar la constitución de una o varias empresas aéreas peruanas para ser designadas en relación con el Acuerdo , solamente si se pudiera disponer de un plazo prudencial para que una compañía, constituída originalmente con un moderado porcentaje de capital efectivamente peruano pudiera ir aumentando paulatinamente, bajo el control del Gobierno del Perú, la proporción del capital peruano hasta llegar a obtener una proporción mínima de 51 % que permita asegurar para ella el título de compañía efectivamente peruana ; y como las investigaciones efectuadas han revelado que , el capital de origen norteamericano y canadiense , sería el más probable y quizás el único que estaría en aptitud de facilitar ese proceso de peruanización gradual de la compañía o de las compañías que serán designadas, es a dicho capital a quien habría que entregar la propiedad de la proporción de aquel que no estuviera en manos de nacionales del Perú.
Por las razones anteriormente expuestas y no obstante las difíciles pero transitorias condiciones económicas del momento actual, el Gobierno del Perú se esforzará porque el Acuerdo suscrito produzca resultados benéficos para las dos partes contratantes ; y en tal sentido el Gobierno del Perú tiene entendido que podrá designar , dentro de los términos del Acuerdo , una línea o líneas aéreas que satisfagan las siguientes condiciones:

1.-En todo tiempo , estará en manos de nacionales peruanos o del Gobierno del Perú , un mínimo de 30 % del capital.
2.-Antes del vencimiento de un plazo de 10 (diez) años , contados a partir de la fecha del Acuerdo , deberá estar en manos de nacionales peruanos o del Gobierno del Perú un mínimo de 51% del capital, así como el control efectivo de la Compañía.
3.-Mientras no se satisfagan las condiciones del párrafo 2 , la porción del capital que no se encuentre en manos de nacionales peruanos, deberá haber sido suscrita por nacionales de los

61 STAT. ] PERU-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MayDec. 27, 1946 6, 8, July 21, 1947
Estados Unidos de América y del Dominio del Canadá, en forma tal que, entre los respectivos grupos de nacionales de cada uno de estos dos países, no exista en ningún momento una diferencia mayor del 20% en el monto de sus respectivas participaciones en el capital de la Compañía. Mucho estimaré a Vuestra Excelencia se sirva informarme si lo arriba expuesto refleja debidamente el entendimiento mutuo de nuestros respectivos Gobiernos , que ha servido de base para la celebración del Acuerdo de Transporte Aéreo . Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterarle, Señor Embajador, las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración .
E. García Sayán Al Excelentísimo Señor
PRENTICE COOPER, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Ciudad.-

Translation

MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND WORSHIP

No. (D)-6-Y/5

LIMA, December 27, 1946.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to address Your Excellency, in compliance with a request of the Ministry of Aeronautics, to explain how the Peruvian

Government understands and proposes to put into execution the Air Transport Agreement between Peru and the United States of America,

signed today. The Government of Peru desires to call attention to the fact that

at least up to the present, it has not been possible to designate an air line or air lines which are substantially owned and effectively controlled by Peruvian nationals , so that they may enjoy the rights granted by the aforesaid Agreement. This is due to the fact that

time is an indispensable factor in training technical and administrative

personnel, as well as in attracting the necessary capital. The experience of recent months leads to the conclusion that the
Government of Peru will be able to promote the formation of one or more Peruvian aviation enterprises for the purpose of being designated , as regards the Agreement, only if a reasonable period of time could

be available for a company originally formed with a moderate percentage of effectively Peruvian capital, to increase gradually, under the control of the Government of Peru , the proportion of Peruvian capital until a minimum proportion of 51 % is reached, which will permit securing for it the title of an effectively Peruvian company ;

and, as the investigations made have shown that capital of United States and Canadian origin would be the most probable and perhaps

the only capital which would be in a position to facilitate the process of gradual Peruvianization of the company or companies to be designated, it is to the said capital that ownership of the proportion not in the possession of nationals of Peru would have to be handed over.

2599

2600

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
For the reasons set forth above and notwithstanding the present difficult but transitory economic conditions, the Government of Peru will endeavor to have the Agreement signed produce results profitable for the two contracting parties ; and, in that sense, the Government of Peru understands that it may designate, under the terms of the Agreement, an air line or air lines meeting the following conditions :
1. At all times , a minimum of 30% of the capital shall be held by Peruvian nationals or by the Government of Peru.
2. Before the expiration of a term of 10 (ten) years, counting from the date of the Agreement, a minimum of 51 % of the capital, as well as the effective control of the Company, must be held by Peruvian nationals or by the Government of Peru .
3. Until the conditions of paragraph 2 are met, the portion of the capital which is not held by Peruvian nationals must have been subscribed by nationals of the United States of America and of the Dominion of Canada , in such manner that, among the respective groups of nationals of each of those two countries , there shall not at any time exist a difference of more than 20% in the amount of their respective shares in the capital of the Company.
I shall greatly appreciate it if Your Excellency will be so good as to inform me whether the foregoing duly reflects the mutual understanding of our respective Governments, which served as a basis for the conclusion of the Air Transport Agreement.
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to you , Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
E. GARCÍA SAYAN
His Excellency PRENTICE COOPER, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary ofthe United States of America. City.
The American Ambassador to the Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs
No. 306
The Ambassador of the United States of America presents his compliments to His Excellency the Minister for Foreign Affairs and with reference to the signing of the Air Transport Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the United States of America on this date has the honor to acknowledge the receipt of His Excellency's confidential note No. 6-Y/5 , in which is expressed the understanding in connection with which the Government of Peru proposes to execute the Air Transport Agreement. The Ambassador is pleased to express hereby the acceptance by the Government of the United States of America of the terms of understanding contained in His Excellency's note .
Prentice Cooper avails himself of this occasion to extend to His

Dec. 27, 1946 61 STAT.] PERU-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-
May 6, 8, July 21 , 1947
Excellency Dr. Enrique García Sayan the renewed assurance of his highest and most distinguished consideration.
LIMA, December 27, 1946

2601.

The American Ambassador to the Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 303

The Ambassador of the United States of America presents his compliments to His Excellency the Minister for Foreign Affairs , and has the honor to present herewith a statement of the understanding upon which the Government of the United States proposes to execute the Air Transport Agreement to be entered into with the Government of the Republic of Peru.
The Air Transport Agreement to be concluded on this date between the United States of America and the Republic of Peru contemplates the use of the military airport in the Canal Zone by the airlines designated in conformity with the aforementioned Agreement, but the United States military authorities reserve the right to restrict or prohibit the civil use of this airport as warranted by military requirements , although such restrictions on or prohibition of its use will be applied on a non-discriminatory basis, and no distinction in this respect will be made between airlines designated by the United States of America and airlines designated by the Republic of Peru. Also, an international civil airport is now being constructed in the Republic of Panama, and the United States military authorities contemplate that the further civil use of the military airport in the Canal Zone may

be prohibited as soon as the international airport in the Republic of Panama becomes available. In such event, there will be no further opportunity for the use of the military airport in the Canal Zone by civil airlines, and presumably it will be necessary for appropriate arrangements to be made with the Republic of Panama for the use of

its new international airport in substitution for the military airport in the Canal Zone presently used by civil air services .
With reference to the rights granted to designated Peruvian airlines to carry international traffic to and from the Canal Zone, the Government of the United States of America wishes to call attention

to its Air Commerce Act of 1926 as amended by its Civil Aeronautics

44 Stat. 568; 52 Stat. Act of 1938 , which precludes the carriage by foreign aircraft of traffic 973.

between the Canal Zone and points in the United States, and the

49 U. 8. O. §§ 171 et eq,401 et seq.

grant of rights to designated Peruvian airlines is accordingly subject to this limitation. This limitation will be applied without discrimination to the airlines of all countries, other than the United States.
It would be appreciated if His Excellency would inform the Embassy as to whether the foregoing correctly reflects the understanding of the Government of the Republic of Peru as the basis upon which the Air Transport Agreement is to be concluded.
Prentice Cooper avails himself of this occasion to extend to His Excellency Dr. Enríque Sayán the renewed assurance of his highest and most distinguished consideration.

LIMA, December 27, 1946

2602

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

N°: (D)-6-Y/6

LIMA, 27 de diciembre de 1946.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR:

Tengo a honra avisar recibo a Vuestra Excelencia de su atenta nota Nº 303 , de la fecha, por la que se sirve exponer algunas consideraciones respecto a la forma como el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América se propone llevar a efecto el Acuerdo sobre Transporte Aéreo suscrito el día de hoy.
Expresa Vuestra Excelencia que las autoridades militares de los Estados Unidos de América se reservan el derecho de restringir o prohibir el uso con fines civiles del aeropuerto militar de la Zona del Canal, si así lo exigieran las necesidades militares ; y que, tan pronto como esté concluído el aeropuerto civil internacional que se construye en Panamá, las autoridades militares norteamericanas tienen el propósito de prohibir la utilización de dicho aeropuerto militar por las aeronaves civiles y comerciales .
Agrega Vuestra Excelencia que en virtud de la Ley de Comercio Aéreo de 1926 , reformada por la Ley de Aeronáutica Civil de 1938 , la concesión de derechos a las líneas aéreas designadas por el Gobierno del Perú está sujeta a las limitaciones impuestas por dichas leyes , en lo que se refiere al transporte entre la Zona del Canal y los Estados Unidos de América.
En respuesta, y al agradecer a Vuestra Excelencia las informaciones referidas, de las que he tomado debida nota , me es grato expresarle que ellas están de acuerdo con el pensamiento que ha guíado al Gobierno del Perú al celebrar dicho Acuerdo sobre Transporte Aéreo entre nuestros dos países.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterarle, Señor Embajador, las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
E. GARCÍA SAYAN

Al Excelentísimo Señor PRENTICE COOPER,
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de America. Ciudad .

Translation

MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND WORSHIP

No.: (D)-6-Y/6

LIMA, December 27, 1946.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's courteous note No. 303 of even date, in which you were good enough to set forth certain considerations in regard to the way in which the Government of the United States of America proposes to carry out

the Air Transport Agreement signed today.

Dec. 27, 1946 61 STAT. ] PERU-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- May 6, 8, July 21 , 1947
Your Excellency states that the military authorities of the United States of America reserve the right to restrict or prohibit the use, for civilian purposes , of the military airport of the Canal Zone, should military needs so require ; and that, as soon as the international civil airport which is being constructed in Panama is completed , the United States military authorities intend to prohibit the use of the said military airport by civil and commercial aircraft.
Your Excellency adds that, under the Air Commerce Act of 1926 , amended by the Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938, the granting of rights to the air lines designated by the Government of Peru is subject to the restrictions imposed by the said Acts , as regards transportation between the Canal Zone and the United States of America.
In reply, I thank Your Excellency for the above-mentioned information, which I have duly noted, and I am happy to inform you that it is in accordance with the thought which led the Government of Peru to conclude the said Air Transport Agreement between our two countries.
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to you , Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
E. GARCÍA SAYAN
His Excellency PRENTICE COOPER Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America. City.

2603

The American Ambassador to the Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 301

The Ambassador of the United States of America presents his compliments to His Excellency the Minister for Foreign Affairs , and with reference to the negotiations leading up to the Air Transport Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the United States of America signed on this date, has the honor to convey on behalf of the representatives of the Government of the United States of America concerned certain information regarding possible future routes considered during the course of the negotiations.
At such time as the Government of the United States of America
should consider that the surrounding circumstances have sufficiently developed, it contemplates requesting 2the Government of Peru for consultation pursuant to Article 9 of the Agreement referred to regarding modification of the Annex to include a proposed route from the United States and the Canal Zone via Colombia to Iquitos and other points in Southern Peru , and beyond to terminal points in Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay, to be operated by an airline or airlines designed by the Government of the United States of America.
It would be appreciated if His Excellency would be kind enough

Ante, p. 2588.

2604

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
to acknowledge the receipt of the information which is conveyed hereby on behalf of the United States Representatives .
Prentice Cooper avails himself of this occasion to extend to His Excellency Dr. Enrique García Sayán the renewed assurance of his highest and most distinguished consideration. LIMA, December 27, 1946

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

Numero: (L) 6-3-/259

LIMA, 27 de diciembre de 1946.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR:

Tengo a honra avisar recibo a Vuestra Excelencia de su atenta nota N° 301 , de la fecha, por la que se sirve transmitirme ciertas informa-

ciones relativas a las posibles rutas aéreas futuras que han sido consideradas en el curso de las negociaciones que se han realizado para

concluir el Acuerdo sobre Transporte Aéreo , suscrito el día de hoy. Expresa Vuestra Excelencia, que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos
de América tiene el propósito de promover consultas con el Gobierno del Perú , cuando las circunstancias del caso lo permitan y de conformidad con el Artículo IX del mencionado Acuerdo , con el objeto de

convenir en la modificación del Anexo a dicho instrumento , a fin de incluir una ruta entre los Estados Unidos de América y la Zona del Canal y puntos terminales en la Argentina, Brasil, y Uruguay, via Colombia a Iquitos y otros lugares del Perú , la cual sería operada por

una línea o líneas aéreas designadas por el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América.

En respuesta, cúmpleme manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia que he tomado debida nota de las informaciones que me transmite en relación con el Acuerdo suscrito en la fecha.

Aprovecho la oportunidad, señor Embajador, para reiterarle las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
E. GARCÍA Sayán

Al Excelentísimo Señor PRENTICE COOPER,
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Ciudad

Translation

MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND WORSHIP

Number: (L) 6-3-/259

LIMA, December 27, 1946.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's courteous note No. 301 of even date, in which you were good enough to send me certain information relating to the possible future air routes which were considered during the negotiations which were

Dec. 27, 1946 61 STAT. ] PERU-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- May 6, 8, July 21, 1947
carried out for the purpose of concluding the Air Transport Agreement signed today.
Your Excellency states that the Government of the United States of America intends to encourage consultations with the Government ofPeru when the circumstances of the case permit in conformity with Article IX of the above-mentioned Agreement, for the purpose of agreeing upon the amending of the Annex to the said instrument in order to include a route between the United States of America and the Canal Zone and terminal points in Argentina , Brazil and Uruguay, via Colombia, to Iquitos and other places in Peru, which would be operated by an air line or air lines designated by the Government of the United States of America.
It is my duty, in reply, to state to Your Excellency that I have taken due note of the information which you have transmitted to me in regard to the Agreement signed today.
I avail myself of the opportunity, Mr. Ambassador, to renew to you the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
E. GARCÍA SAYAN His Excellency
PRENTICE COOPER , Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America. City.

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

N°: D-6-3/258

LIMA, 27 de diciembre de 1946.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Tengo a honra dirigirme a Vuestra Excelencia, con relación al Acuerdo sobre Transporte Aéreo entre el Perú y los Estados Unidos de América, suscrito en la fecha, para transmitir a Vuestra Excelencia, atendiendo a una solicitud del Ministerio de Aeronáutica, ciertas informaciones relativas a las posibles rutas aéreas futuras que han sido consideradas en el curso de las negociaciones.
El Gobierno del Perú, tiene el propósito de promover consultas con el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, cuando las circunstancias del caso lo aconsejen, a fin de convenir la modificación del Anexo al citado Acuerdo sobre Transporte Aéreo , de conformidad con el Artículo 9 del mismo , para incluir una ruta entre el Perú y los Angeles y San Francisco , California, via Zona del Canal y Ciudad de México, que pudiere extenderse a Vancouver , Canadá, y hasta el Oriente, la cual sería operada por una linea o lineas aéreas designadas por el Gobierno del Perú .
Ruego a Vuestra Excelencia se sirva tomar nota de lo anteriormente

expuesto y considerarlo como expresión del pensamiento que ha guiado al Gobierno del Perú al celebrar el mencionado Acuerdo , por

todo lo cual mucho agradeceré a Vuestra Excelencia se sirva extend-

erme el correspondiente aviso de recibo .

2605

2606

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterarle, señor Embajador, las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
E. GARCÍA SAYAN Al Excelentisimo Señor
PRENTICE COOPER, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Ciudad.-

Translation

MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND WORSHIP

No. D-6-3/258

LIMA, December 27, 1946.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to address Your Excellency in regard to the Air Transport Agreement between Peru and the United States of America, signed on this date, in order to transmit to Your Excellency , in compliance with a request of the Ministry of Aeronautics , certain information relating to the possible future air routes which were considered during the negotiations .
The Government of Peru intends to encourage consultations with the Government of the United States of America when the circumstances of the case make it advisable, with a view to agreeing upon the amending of the Annex to the above-mentioned Air Transport Agreement, in conformity with Article 9 thereof, in order to include a route between Peru and Los Angeles and San Francisco, California, via the Canal Zone and Mexico City, which could extend to Vancouver, Canada, as far as the Orient, and which would be operated by an air line or air lines designated by the Government of Peru.
I beg Your Excellency to be so good as to note the foregoing and to consider it as the expression of the thought which led the Government of Peru to conclude the above-mentioned Agreement. I shall therefore be very grateful to Your Excellency if you will be good enough to acknowledge receipt of this communication.

I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to you , Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
E. GARCÍA Sayán

His Excellency PRENTICE COOPER , Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary ofthe United States of America. City .

The American Ambassador to the Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs No. 307
The Ambassador of the United States of America presents his compliments to His Excellency the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and

61 STAT. ] PERU-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES -May Dec. 27, 1946 6, 8, July 21, 1947
with reference to the negotiations leading up to the Air Transport Agreement between the Republic of Perú and the United States of America signed on this date has the honor to acknowledge the receipt of His Excellency's note No. 6-3/258 in which certain information regarding possible future routes considered during the course of the negotiations is communicated on behalf of the representatives of the Peruvian Government.
Prentice Cooper avails himself of this occasion to extend to His Excellency Dr. Enrique García Sayán the renewed assurance of his highest and most distinguished consideration .
LIMA, December 27, 1946

The Peruvian Ambassador to the Secretary of State
PERUVIAN EMBASSY WASHINGTON 6, D.C.

M /109.-

May 6, 1947

YOUR EXCELLENCY :

I refer to the text of the notes of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Peru and the Ambassador from the United States which were exchanged on December 27, 1946 and effected at the time of the conclu-

sion of the bilateral Transport Agreement between the United States and Peru. This text was made public on April 29, 1947 by the State Department. As a consequence of this publication , the oral agreement on the application of the Peruvian International Airways for a permit to enter the United States was postponed until May 9, 1947.
I have been instructed by my Government to direct your attention to the English translation of the Foreign Office note of December 27, 1946 which had reference to participation by United States and Canadian capital in an airline to be designated by the Government of Peru (in this case the Peruvian International Airways) to enjoy the rights granted by the United States to a Peruvian airline.
In order that there may be no possible misinterpretation as to the mutual understanding, my Government desires to invite your attention to the following matters :

(1 ) The English word " held " employed in the translation of each of the three conditions does not have the meaning of the Spanish words "en manos de". A more accurate redaction would be the literal translation of the words, namely "in the hands of".
(2) It will be recalled that in the discussions held before the exchange of the above mentioned notes with respect to the third condition, it was the agreement that the balance of the capital of the Company which was not in the hands of Peruvian nationals should be in the hands of nationals of the United States and of Canada ; and that the relative participation in this balance by the nationals of these two countries should not exceed a limit of 40 % for one and 60 % for the other, either way, based on the total non-Peruvian capital. This would permit a maximum discrepancy of 50 % in the relative participations of the national groups of the United States and Canada,

2607

2608

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
as compared to each other, but at the same time achieves the intended effect of preventing either of these national groups from acquiring more than 42 % of the total capital. I would like to call to your attention that the note just published states that "among the respective groups of nationals of each of those two countries (United States and Canada) , there shall not at any time exist a difference of more than 20% in the amount of their respective shares in the capital of the Company." The effect of the wording of this note would be that, assuming 30 % of the capital were in the hands of Peruvian nationals , the relative participations in the balance by nationals of the United States and Canada could not exceed a limit of 45.5 for one and 54.5 for the other, either way, if the percentage were computed upon the relative holdings of Americans and Canadians rather than on the total non-Peruvian capital. The Minister of Foreign Affairs believes that you will agree that this was not the intention of both the United States and the Peruvian Governments when the Agreement was drawn up. Therefore, with the provision that this is agreeable to you, I suggest that the third paragraph be expressed as follows : "Of the remaining total participation by Americans and Canadians, no more than 60% shall be in the hands of nationals of either country." Furthermore, my Government believes that the use of the word "shares" is subject to misinterpretation . As used in the translation, this could be interpreted to mean "shares of stock" . The Spanish word for shares of stock is "acciones" . The word used in the Peruvian note of December 27th is "participaciones" and it should be translated as "participation in the capital of the Company."
I will appreciate very much receiving your confirmation of this interpretation of our mutual understanding at the time of the conclusion of the bilateral Air Transport Agreement.
Please accept, Your Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
JORGE PRADO
His Excellency General GEORGE MARSHALL Secretary of State Washington, D.C.
The Secretary of State to the Peruvian Ambassador
DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON May 8 1947
EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note No. M/109
of May 6, 1947, concerning the construction of the note of December 27, 1946 , No. (D ) 6Y/5 delivered to the Ambassador of the United States of America in Lima on that date by His Excellency the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Peru , the terms of which latter

61 STAT.]

PERU-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-

Dec. 27, 1946 May 6, 8, July 21, 1947

note were accepted by note No. 306 dated December 27, 1946 from the Ambassador of the United States of America to His Excellency the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Peru.
In paragraph ( 1 ) of your note you refer to the translation of the Spanish words " en manos de" by the English word " held, " and suggest that a more accurate translation would be "in the hands of." The intent of the two notes exchanged in Lima, to which reference is made above, was to establish a standard of true, actual ownership of the shares of the Peruvian airline concerned . I believe that there is no doubt that such was the intention of all parties concerned. I therefore believe that whether the word " held " or the words "in the hands of" are used to translate the phrase " en manos de" is not a matter of substance, but would accept your phraseology, provided that the intention to establish a standard based on factual ownership is understood . It would be appreciated if Your Excellency would confirm this interpretation of the matter.
I accept the understandings expressed by Your Excellency in paragraph (2) of your note as representing a more precise expression of the intention of our respective Governments than evidenced by the exchange of notes in Lima above referred to .
If Your Excellency will inform me that these understandings are acceptable to your Government, I would suggest that your note of May 6, this note, and your reply thereto be deemed to constitute the controlling expression of understanding between our Governments concerning these matters .
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
For the Secretary of State: WILLARD L. THORP

His Excellency, Senor Don JORGE PRADO , Ambassador of Peru.

The Peruvian Ambassador to the Secretary of State PERUVIAN EMBASSY WASHINGTON 6, D. C.

No. 5-3-M/160.

July 21 , 1947

YOUR EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the notes exchanged between the Department of State and this Embassy in relation to the interpretation of certain terms of the Bilateral Transport Agreement signed by the

United States and Peru . I also refer particularly to the note of the Department of May 8, 1947.
In reply, I am pleased to inform Your Excellency, following instructions from my Government, that since the Department in its above-mentioned note of May 8th agrees with my Government's translation of the Spanish words "en manos de " as "in the hands of", it may be understood that it was the intention of the parties in the

2609

2610

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
exchange-of-notes to establish a standard based on factual ownership of the shares of stock in the hands of nationals of Peru , the United States and Canada.
Since my Government agrees with the Government of the United States in this interpretation, I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the notes on this matter may be considered as the agreement of both Governments.
Please accept, Your Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
JORGE PRADO
His Excellency General GEORGE MARSHALL Secretary of State Department of State Washington, D.C.

61 STAT.]

PHILIPPINES TRADE- July 4, 1946 Oct. 22, 1946

2611

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines respecting trade. Signed at Manila July 4, 1946; amended by exchange of notes signed October 22, 1946; proclaimed by the President of the United States of America December 17, 1946;
proclaimed by the President of the Philippines January 1, 1947; supplementary proclamation issued by the President of the United States of America January 8, 1947; entered into force January 2, 1947.

July 4 and October 22, 1946
[T. I. A. S. 1588]

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS Section 401 of the Act of the Congress of the United States of America of April 30 , 1946 entitled " Philippine Trade Act of 1946 " (Public Law 371 , 79th Congress) provides that the President of the United States of America is authorized under the terms and conditions set forth in said Act to enter into an executive agreement with the President of the Philippines concerning trade and related matters ;
WHEREAS the President of the United States of America, acting pursuant to the provisions of the said section 401 of the Philippine Trade Act of 1946, through his duly empowered Plenipotentiary entered into an agreement on July 4, 1946 with the President of the Philippines, which agreement, including a protocol and annexes thereto, is in words and figures as follows:

60 Stat. 151. 22 U. S. C. § 1341.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES CONCERNING TRADE AND RELATED MATTERS DURING A TRANSITIONAL PERIOD FOLLOWING THE INSTITUTION OF PHILIPPINE INDEPENDENCE

The President of the United States of America and the President

of the Philippines , recalling the close economic ties between the

people of the United States and the people of the Philippines during many years of intimate political relations, mindful of the great physical destruction and social disturbances suffered by the Philippines as

a result of their valiant support of the cause of the United Nations

in the war against Japan, and desiring to enter into an agreement

accepting on the part of each country the provisions of Title II and

60 Stat. 143, 148. Title III (except Part 1 ) of the Philippine Trade Act of 1946 of the 22 U. S. C. § 1251 et

United States of America, have agreed to the following Articles :

seq.

ARTICLE I
Admission ofarticles 1. During the period from the date of the entry into force of this duty free. Agreement to July 3, 1954 , both dates inclusive, United States articles

2612

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Post, p. 2623.

as defined in Subparagraph (e) of Paragraph 1 of the Protocol to this Agreement entered , or withdrawn from warehouse, in the Philippines

for consumption, and Philippine articles as defined in Subparagraph

(f) of Paragraph 1 of the Protocol entered , or withdrawn from warehouse, in the United States for consumption, shall be admitted into

the Philippines and the United States, respectively, free of ordinary
customs duty. Determination ofordinary customs duty. 2. The ordinary customs duty to be collected on United States
articles as defined in Subparagraph (e) of Paragraph 1 of the Protocol,

which during the following portions of the period from July 4, 1954 ,

to July 3, 1974, both dates inclusive, are entered , or withdrawn from

warehouse, in the Philippines for consumption, and on Philippine

articles as defined in Subparagraph () of Paragraph 1 of the Proto-

col , other than those specified in Items D to G, both inclusive, of the Post, pp. 2615, 2632. Schedule to Article II, which during such portions of such period are

entered , or withdrawn from warehouse, in the United States for con-

sumption, shall be determined by applying the following percentages

Post, p. 2624.

of the Philippine duty as defined in Subparagraph (h) of Paragraph 1 of the Protocol , and of the United States duty as defined in Subpara-

graph (g) of Paragraph 1 of the Protocol , respectively :

(a) During the period from July 4, 1954, to December 31 ,

1954, both dates inclusive, five per centum.

(b) During the calendar year 1955, ten per centum .

(c) During each calendar year after the calendar year 1955 until and including the calendar year 1972, a percentage equal

to the percentage for the preceding calendar year increased by

five per centum of the Philippine duty and the United States duty, respectively, as so defined .

(d) During the period from January 1 , 1973, to July 3 , 1974,

Determination of other customs duties.

both dates inclusive, one hundred per centum . 3. Customs duties on United States articles, and on Philippine

articles, other than ordinary customs duties, shall be determined

without regard to the provisions of Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article,

but shall be subject to the provisions of Paragraph 4 of this Article.

Duty on importa

tion.

4. With respect to United States articles imported into the Philip-

pines, and with respect to Philippine articles imported into the United States, no duty on or in connection with importation shall be

collected or paid in an amount in excess of the duty imposed with

respect to like articles which are the product of any other foreign

country, or collected or paid in any amount if the duty is not imposed

with respect to such like articles . As used in this Paragraph the

term "duty" includes taxes, fees, charges, or exactions , imposed on

or in connection with importation ; but does not include internal taxes or ordinary customs duties.
5. With respect to products of the United States which do not come within the definition of United States articles , imported into the Philippines, no duty on or in connection with importation shall be collected or paid in an amount in excess of the duty imposed with respect to like articles which are the product of any other foreign

61 STAT. ]

PHILIPPINES-TRADE- July 4, 1946 Oct. 22, 1946

2613

country , or collected or paid in any amount if the duty is not imposed with respect to such like articles which are the product of any other foreign country. As used in this Paragraph the term "duty" includes taxes, fees , charges , or exactions, imposed on or in connection with importation; but does not include internal taxes .
6. With respect to products of the Philippines, which do not come

within the definition of Philippine articles , imported into the United States , no duty on or in connection with importation shall be collected or paid in an amount in excess of the duty imposed with respect to like articles which are the product of any other foreign country (ex-

cept Cuba) , or collected or paid in any amount if the duty is not imposed with respect to such like articles which are the product of any other foreign country (except Cuba) . As used in this Paragraph the term "duty" includes taxes, fees, charges , or exactions, imposed on or in connection with importation ; but does not include internal taxes .
ARTICLE II

Total amounts of 1. During the period from January 1 , 1946 to December 31 , 1973 , articles of specified
both dates inclusive, the total amount of the articles falling within classes.

one of the classes specified in Items A and A- 1 , and C to G, both inclusive, of the Schedule to this Article which are Philippine articles as defined in Subparagraph (f) of Paragraph 1 of the Protocol , and which, in any calendar year , may be entered , or withdrawn from warehouse, in the United States for consumption shall not exceed the amounts specified in such Schedule as to each class of articles . During

Post, p. 2615. Post, p. 2623.

the period from January 1 , 1946 , to December 31 , 1973 , both dates inclusive, the total amount of the articles falling within the class spec-

ified in Item B of the Schedule to this Article which are the product of

the Philippines, and which, in any calendar year, may be entered , or withdrawn from warehouse, in the United States for consumption , shall not exceed the amounts specified in such Schedule as to such

class of articles. During the period from January 1 , 1974 , to July 3, 1974, both dates inclusive , the total amounts referred to in the preceding sentences of this Paragraph shall not exceed one-half of the

amount specified in such Schedule with respect to each class of articles ,

respectively . Determination of
2. Philippine articles as defined in Subparagraph (  ) of Paragraph duty-free quotas. 1 of the Protocol falling within one of the classes specified in Items Post, p. 2623.
Post, p. 2615, D to G, both inclusive, of the Schedule to this Article , which during
the following portions of the period from January 1 , 1946 , to December
31 , 1973 , both dates inclusive, are entered, or withdrawn from ware-
house, in the United States for consumption , shall be free of ordinary

customs duty, in quantities determined by applying the following percentages of the amounts specified in such Schedule as to each such class of articles:

(a) During each of the calendar years 1946 to 1954 , one hundred per centum.
(b) During the calendar year 1955 , ninety-five per centum. (c) During each calendar year after the calendar year 1955 95347-49- PT. III- -22

2614

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

until and including the calendar year 1973, a percentage equal to the percentage for the preceding calendar year decreased by five per centum of such specified amounts .

Any such Philippine article so entered or withdrawn from warehouse in excess of the duty-free quota provided in this Paragraph shall be

Post, p. 2624.
Allocation of quotas to manufacturers in Philippines.
Post, p. 2615.

subject to one hundred per centum of the United States duty as defined in Subparagraph (g) of Paragraph 1 of the Protocol.
3. Each of the quotas provided for in Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article for articles falling within one of the classes specified in Items A-1 and B, and D to G, each inclusive , of the Schedule to this Article

shall be allocated annually by the Philippines to the manufacturers

in the Philippines in the calendar year 1940 of products of a class for

which such quota is established, and whose products of such class

were exported to the United States during such calendar year, or

their successors in interest, proportionately on the basis of the amount

of the products of such class produced by each such manufacturer

(or in the case of such successor in interest, the amount of the prod-

ucts of such class produced by his predecessor in interest ) which was

exported to the United States during the following period: (a ) In the

case of Items A-1 and D to G, each inclusive, the calendar year 1940 ,

Sugar.

and (b) in the case of Item B, the twelve months immediately preceding the inauguration of the Commonwealth of the Philippines. The

Post, pp. 2615, 2632.
Post, pp. 2615, 2632. Post, p. 2632.

quota provided for in Paragraph 1 of this Article for unrefined sugar specified in Item A of such Schedule, including that required to manufacture the refined sugar specified in Item A- 1 of the Schedule, shall be allotted annually by the Philippines to the sugar-

producing mills and plantation owners in the Philippines in the cal-

endar year 1940 whose sugars were exported to the United States

during such calendar year, or their successors in interest, proportion-

ately on the basis of their average annual production (or in the case

of such a successor in interest, the average annual production of his

predecessor in interest) for the calendar years 1931 , 1932, and 1933 , and the amount of sugars which may be so exported shall be allocated

in each year between each mill and the plantation owners on the

basis of the proportion of sugars to which each mill and the plantation

owners are respectively entitled, in accordance with any milling

Transfer ments, etc.

of allot-

agreements between them, or any extension, modification, or renewal thereof.
4. The holder of any allotment under law existing on April 29, 1946, including his successor in interest, and the holder of any allotment under any of the quotas which are provided for in Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article the allocation of which is provided for in Paragraph 3 of this Article, may transfer or assign all or any amount of such allotment on such terms as may be agreeable to the parties in interest. If, after the first nine months of any calendar year, the

holder of any allotment, for that year, under any of the quotas referred to in the preceding sentence, is or will be unable for any reason to export to the United States all of his allotment, in time to fulfill the quota for that year, that amount of such allotment which it is established by sufficient evidence cannot be so exported during the

61 STAT. ]

PHILIPPINES-TRADE- July 4, 1946 Oct. 22, 1946

2615

remainder of the calendar year may be apportioned by the Philippine Government to other holders of allotments under the same quota, or

in such other manner as will insure the fulfillment of the quota for

that year: Provided, That no transfer or assignment or reallocation under the provisions of this Paragraph shall diminish the allotment

to which the holder may be entitled in any subsequent calendar year.

The following Schedule to Article II shall constitute an integral part thereof:

I Numerical
Item

II Commodity Description

III All Quantities

A

Sugars.

952,000 short tons

A- 1

May be refined sugars, meaning " direct- Not to exceed 56,000

consumption sugar" as defined in Section short tons

101 of the Sugar Act of 1937 of the United

States which is set forth in part as Annex I

to this Agreement.

B

Cordage, including yarns, twines (includ- 6,000,000 lbs.

ing binding twines described in Paragraph

1622 of the Tariff Act of 1930 of the United

States, as amended, which is set forth as

Annex II to this Agreement) , cords, cord-

age, rope, and cable, tarred or untarred,

wholly or in chief value of Manila (abaca) or other hard fiber.

Q

Rice, including rice meal, flour, polish, 1,040,000 lbs . and bran.

D

Cigars (exclusive of cigarettes, cheroots 200,000,000 cigars

of all kinds, and paper cigars and cigarettes,

including wrappers) .

E

Scrap tobacco, and stemmed and un- 6,500,000 lbs.

stemmed filler tobacco described in Para-

graph 602 of the Tariff Act of 1930 of the

United States, as amended, which is set forth as Annex III to this Agreement.

FG

Coconut oil.

200,000 long tons

Buttoms of pearl or shell.

850,000 gross

Post, p. 2632. Post, p. 2632.
Post, p. 2633.

ARTICLE III

1. With respect to quotas on Philippine articles as defined in Subparagraph (f) of Paragraph 1 of the Protocol (other than the quotas provided for in Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article II, and other than quotas

Establishment ofU. S. quotas on Philippine
arPtiocslte,s.p. 2623.

established in conjunction with quantitative limitations, applicable to products of all foreign countries, on imports of like articles) , the United States will not establish any such quota for any period before

January 1 , 1948, and for any part of the period from January 1 , 1948 ,

to July 3, 1974, both dates inclusive, it will establish such a quota only if-

(a) The President of the United States, after investigation, finds and proclaims that such Philippine articles are coming, or are likely to come, into substantial competition with like articles the product of the United States ;
(b) The quota for any Philippine article as so defined for any twelve-month period is not less than the amount determined by the President as the total amount of Philippine articles of such

Post, p. 2633.

2616

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Discontinuance. Post, p. 2633.

class which (during the twelve months ended on the last day of the month preceding the month in which occurred the date proclaimed by the President as the date of the beginning of the investigation) was entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, in the United States for consumption ; or, if the quota is established for any period other than a twelve-month period, is not less than a proportionate amount.
Any quota established pursuant to this Paragraph shall not continue in effect after the President, following investigation, finds and proclaims that the conditions which gave rise to the establishment of such quota no longer exist.
2. If the President of the United States finds that the allocation of any quota established pursuant to Paragraph 1 of this Article is necessary to make the application of the quota just and reasonable between the United States and the Philippines, he shall, in such proclamation or a subsequent proclamation, provide the basis for such allocation, and if he exercises such right, the Philippines will promptly put and keep in effect, on the basis proclaimed by the President of the United States, the allocation of such quota.

ARTICLE IV

Internal tax on U.S.

articles coming into 1. With respect to articles which are products of the United States

Philippines.

coming into the Philippines , or with respect to articles manufactured

in the Philippines wholly or in part from such articles , no internal tax shall be-

(a) Collected or paid in an amount in excess of the internal tax imposed with respect to like articles which are the product of the Philippines, or collected or paid in any amount if the internal tax is not imposed with respect to such like articles ;
(b) Collected or paid in an amount in excess of the internal tax imposed with respect to like articles which are the product of any other foreign country , or collected or paid in any amount if the internal tax is not imposed with respect to such like articles.

ticIlnetseronfaflorteaixgnocnouanr-tries.

Where an internal tax is imposed with respect to an article which is the product of a foreign country to compensate for an internal tax imposed ( 1 ) with respect to a like article which is the product of the

Philippines, or (2) with respect to materials used in the production of a like article which is the product of the Philippines, if the amount of

the internal tax which is collected and paid with respect to the article which is the product of the United States is not in excess of that per-

mitted by Paragraph 1 (b) of Article IV such collection and payment shall not be regarded as in violation of the first sentence of this

Paragraph.

Internal tax on articles of Philippines 2. With respect to articles which are products of the Philippines

coming into U. S.

coming into the United States, or with respect to articles manu-

factured in the United States wholly or in part from such articles, no

internal tax shall be-

61 STAT. ]

PHILIPPINES TRADE- July 4, 1946 Oct. 22, 1946

2617

(a) Collected or paid in an amount in excess of the internal tax imposed with respect to like articles which are the product of the United States, or collected or paid in any amount if the internal tax is not imposed with respect to such like articles ;

(b) Collected or paid in an amount in excess of the internal

tax imposed with respect to like articles which are the product of any other foreign country, or collected or paid in any amount if the internal tax is not imposed with respect to such like articles. Where an internal tax is imposed with respect to an article which is cleIsnotfefronraelitganxcoounnatrrtyi.-

the product of a foreign country to compensate for an internal tax imposed (1 ) with respect to a like article which is the product of the United States , or (2) with respect to materials used in the production of a like article which is the product of the United States , if the amount of the internal tax which is collected and paid with respect to the

article which is the product of the Philippines is not in excess of that

permitted by Paragraph 2 (b ) of Article IV such collection and pay-

ment shall not be regarded as in violation of the first sentence of this Paragraph . This Paragraph shall not apply to the taxes imposed

Nonapplicability.

under Sections 2306 , 2327 , or 2356 of the Internal Revenue Code

of the United States which are set forth in part as Annexes IV, V, and VI to this Agreement.
3. No export tax shall be imposed or collected by the United States

Post, pp. 2626-2628.
Nonimposition of export tax.

on articles exported to the Philippines, or by the Philippines on articles exported to the United States .
4. No processing tax or other internal tax shall be imposed or col-

Nonimposition of internal tax on articles

lected in the United States or in the Philippines with respect to fmoerntu.se of Govern-

articles coming into such country for the official use of the Government

of the Philippines or of the United States, respectively, or any depart-

ment or agency thereof. 5. No processing tax or other internal tax shall be imposed or col-
lected in the United States with respect to Manila (abaca) fiber not

Manila fiber. Post, p. 2633.

dressed or manufactured in any manner. 6. The United States will not reduce the preference of two cents Nonreduction of preference on coconut
per pound provided in Section 2470 of the Internal Revenue Code of oil, etc.

the United States (relating to processing taxes on coconut oil, etc.),

which is set forth as Annex VII to this Agreement, with respect to Post, p. 2628.

articles " wholly the production of the Philippine Islands" or articles "produced wholly from materials the growth or production of the Philippine Islands" ; except that it may suspend the provisions of Subsection (a) (2) of such Section during any period as to which the President of the United States, after consultation with the President of the Philippines, finds that adequate supplies of neither copra nor

coconut oil, the product of the Philippines, are readily available for processing in the United States.

ARTICLE V

The value of Philippine currency in relation to the United States dollar shall not be changed, the convertibility of Philippine pesos into the United States dollars shall not be suspended, and no restric-

Value of Philippine currency, etc.
Post, p. 2633.

2618

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

tions shall be imposed on the transfer of funds from the Philippines to the United States except by agreement with the President of the United States.
ARTICLE VI

Non-quota immi . grant.

1. Any citizen of the United States who actually resided in the Philippines, and any citizen of the Philippines who actually resided in the United States , for a continuous period of three years during

the period of forty-two months ending November 30, 1941 , if entering

the country of such former residence during the period from July 4, 1946, to July 3, 1951 , both dates inclusive, for the purpose of resuming residence therein , shall for the purposes of the immigration laws, be

considered a non-quota immigrant. After such admission as a nonquota immigrant he shall, for the purposes of the immigration and naturalization laws, be considered as lawfully admitted to such country

for permanent residence. The benefits of this Paragraph shall also apply to the wife of any such citizen of the United States, if she is also a citizen thereof, and to his unmarried children under eighteen years

of age, and to the wife of any such citizen of the Philippines, if she is also a citizen thereof or is eligible for United States citizenship, and to his unmarried children under eighteen years of age, if such wife or children of such citizen of the United States or of such citizen of

the Philippines are accompanying or following to join him during such period. This Paragraph shall not apply to a citizen of the

Philippines admitted to the Territory of Hawaii, without an immigra-

tion or passport visa , under the provisions of Paragraph ( 1 ) of Sec-

Post, p. 2630.
Entry of U. S. citizens into Philippines.

tion 8 (a ) of the Act of March 24 , 1934 , of the United States which is set forth as Annex VIII to this Agreement.
2. There shall be permitted to enter the Philippines, without regard to any numerical limitations under the laws of the Philippines, in

each of the calendar years 1946 to 1951 , both inclusive, 1,200 citizens

of the United States, each of whom shall be entitled to remain in the

Philippines for 5 years.

ARTICLE VII

Utilization of natural resources of Philip-
pUi.neS.s, ebtcy. citizens of

1. The disposition , exploitation, development, and utilization of all agricultural, timber, and mineral lands of the public domain, waters, minerals, coal, petroleum, and other mineral oils , all forces

and sources of potential energy, and other natural resources of the

Philippines, and the operation of public utilities, shall, if open to any person, be open to citizens of the United States and to all forms of

business enterprise owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by Period prior sto amendment of Consti- United States citizens, except that (for the period prior to the amend-
tution of Philippines. ment of the Constitution of the Philippines referred to in Paragraph

2 of this Article) the Philippines shall not be required to comply with such part of the foregoing provisions of this sentence as are in conflict with such Constitution.

2. The Government of the Philippines will promptly take such steps as are necessary to secure the amendment of the Constitution

of the Philippines so as to permit the taking effect as laws of the Phil-

61 STAT. ]

PHILIPPINES TRADE- July 4, 1946 Oct. 22, 1946

2619

ippines of such part of the provisions of Paragraph 1 of this Article as is in conflict with such Constitution before such amendment [ '].

ARTICLE VIII

1.

Upon the taking effect of this Agreement the provisions thereof

Provisions placing obligations on U. S.

placing obligations on the United States: (a ) if in effect as laws of the and Philippines.

United States at the time this Agreement takes effect, shall continue

in effect as laws of the United States during the effectiveness of the

Agreement ; or (b ) if not so in effect at the time the Agreement takes effect, shall take effect and continnue in effect as laws of the United

Post, p. 2633.

States during the effectiveness of the Agreement. The Philippines

will continue in effect as laws of the Philippines, during the effective-

ness of this Agreement, the provisions thereof placing obligations on

the Philippines, except as is otherwise provided in Paragraph 1 of Article VII.

2. The United States and the Philippines will promptly enact, and shall keep in effect during the effectiveness of this Agreement, such legislation as may be necessary to supplement the laws of the United

Supplementary legislation.

States and the Philippines, respectively, referred to in Paragraph 1 of

this Article, and to implement the provisions of such laws and the provisions of this Agreement placing obligations on the United States

and the Philippines , respectively. Moreover, the Philippines will promptly enact , and keep in force and effect during the effectiveness of this Agreement, such legislation as may be necessary to put and keep in effect during the effectiveness of this Agreement, the allocation,

reallocation , transfer, and assignment of quotas on the basis provided for in Paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article II ; and, if the United States exercises the right to establish quotas pursuant to Paragraph 1 of

Ante, p. 2614.

Article III and to provide for the allocation thereof pursuant to Paragraph 2 of the same Article, the Philippines will promptly enact, and

Ante, p. 2616.

[By a note of May 16, 1947, the Acting Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines informed the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim at Manila of the adoption of a constitutional amendment, effective Apr. 9, 1947, which provides:
"Notwithstanding the provisions of section one, Article Thirteen, and section eight, Article Fourteen, of the foregoing Constitution, during the effectivity of the Executive Agreement entered into by, the President of the Philippines with the President of the United States on the fourth of July, nineteen hundred and forty-six, pursuant to the provisions of Commonwealth Act Numbered Seven hundred and thirty-three, but in no case to extend beyond the third of July, nineteen hundred and seventy-four, the disposition, exploitation, development, and utilization of all agricultural, timber, and mineral lands of the public domain, waters, minerals, coal, petroleum, and other mineral oils, all forces and sources of potential energy, and other natural resources of the Philippines, and the operation of public utilities, shall, if open to any person, be open to citizens of the United States and to all forms of business enterprise owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by citizens of the United States in the same manner as to, and under the same conditions imposed upon, citizens of the Philippines or corporations or associations owned or controlled by citizens of the Philippines."]

2620

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

keep in force during the period for which each such quota is estab-

lished , such legislation as is necessary to put and keep in effect, on the

Offenses.
60 Stat. 128. 50 U. 8. C. app. §§ 1751-1763.

basis provided by the United States, the allocation of such quotas. 3. The Philippines agree to assist the United States in carrying out
Title I of the Philippine Rehabilitation Act of 1946 of the United States by providing that the following acts relative to such Title shall

be offenses under the laws of the Philippines, and that, upon conviction

False statement.

thereof, the penalties attached to such offenses shall be enforced : (a) Whoever, in the Philippines or elsewhere, makes any

statement or representation knowing it to be false, or whoever

willfully and fraudulently overvalues loss of or damage to property

for the purpose of obtaining for himself or for any claimant any

compensation pursuant to such Title, or for the purpose of

influencing in any way the action of the Philippine War Damage Commission of the United States with respect to any claim for

compensation pursuant to such Title, or for the purpose of obtaining money, property, or anything of value under such Title, shall be punished by a fine of not more than the equivalent, in the currency of the Philippines , of five thousand dollars , United States

Excess remuneration for services in connection with cer-
tain claims.

currency, or by imprisonment for not more than two years, or both, and shall not receive any payments or other benefits under such Title and, if any payment or benefit shall have been made or granted, such Commission shall take such action as may be necessary to recover the same.
(b) Whoever, in the Philippines or elsewhere , pays or offers to pay, or promises to pay, or receives , on account of services rendered or to be rendered in connection with any claim for compen-

sation under such Title, any remuneration in excess of five per centum of the compensation paid by the Philippine War Damage Commission of the United States on account of such claim , shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than the equivalent, in the currency of the Philippines, of five thousand dollars , United States currency, or imprisonment for not more than twelve months , or both, and , if any such payment or benefit shall have been made or granted , such Commission shall take such action as may be necessary to recover the same , and, in addition thereto , any such claimant shall forfeit all rights under such Title.
ARTICLE IX

Consultation .

The United States and the Philippines agree to consult with each other with respect to any questions as to the interpretation or the application of this Agreement , concerning which either Government may make representations to the other.

ARTICLE X

Acceptance ofagree-

ment by Congress of 1. The Philippine Trade Act of 1946 of the United States having

the Philippines.

60 Stat. 141.

authorized the President of the United States to enter into this Agree-

no2t2e. U. S. C. § 1251 ment, and the Congress of the United States having enacted such

legislation as may be necessary to make the provisions thereof placing

61 STAT.]

July 4, 1946 PHILIPPINES TRADE-
Oct. 22, 1946

2621

obligations on the United States take effect as laws of the United

States, this Agreement shall not take effect unless and until the

Congress of the Philippines accepts it by law and has enacted such

legislation as may be necessary to make all provisions hereof placing

obligations on the Philippines take effect as laws of the Philippines ,

except as is otherwise provided in Paragraph 1 of Article VII .

This Proclamations; entry into force.

Agreement shall then be proclaimed by the President of the United

States and by the President of the Philippines, and shall enter into

force on the day following the date of such proclamations , or, if they

are issued on different dates, on the day following the later in date. 2. This Agreement shall have no effect after July 3 , 1974. It may
be terminated by either the United States or the Philippines at any time, upon not less than five years ' written notice. If the President

Termination.

of the United States or the President of the Philippines determines

and proclaims that the other country has adopted or applied measures

or practices which would operate to nullify or impair any right or

obligation provided for in this Agreement, then the Agreement may be terminated upon not less than six months' notice.
3. If the President of the United States determines that a reasonable

Post, p. 2633.

time for the making of the amendment to the Constitution of the Philippines referred to in Paragraph 2 of Article VII has elapsed , but

Ante, p. 2618.

that such amendment has not been made, he shall so proclaim and this

Agreement shall have no effect after the date of such proclamation. 4. If the President of the United States determines and proclaims,

Suspension.

after consultation with the President of the Philippines, that the

Philippines or any of its political subdivisions or the Philippine Government is in any manner discriminating against citizens of the United

States or any form of United States business enterprise , then the

President of the United States shall have the right to suspend the

effectiveness of the whole or any portion of this Agreement. If the

President of the United States subsequently determines and proclaims ,

after consultation with the President of the Philippines, that the

discrimination which was the basis for such suspension (a) has ceased ,

such suspension shall end ; or (b) has not ceased after the lapse of a

time determined by the President of the United States to be reasonable, then the President of the United States shall have the right to terminate this Agreement upon not less than six months' written notice.

In witness whereof the President of the Philippines and the Plenipotentiary of the President of the United States have signed this Agreement and have affixed hereunto their seals.
Done in duplicate in the English language at Manila, this 4th day of July, one thousand nine hundred and forty-six.

[SEAL]

For the President of the United States of America PAUL V. MCNUTT

[SEAL]

President of the Philippines MANUEL ROXAS

2622

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

PROTOCOL TO ACCOMPANY THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES CONCERNING TRADE AND RELATED MATTERS DURING A TRANSITIONAL PERIOD FOLLOWING THE INSTITUTION OF PHILIPPINE INDEPENDENCE

The undersigned duly empowered Plenipotentiaries have agreed to the following Protocol to this Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines concerning trade and related matters during a transitional period following the institution of Philippine Independence, signed this day, which shall constitute an integral part of the Agreement :

"Person." "United States."
"Philippines."
Post, p. 2631. "Ordinary customs duty."

1. For the purpose of the Agreement-
(a) The term "person" includes partnerships, corporations, and associations .
(b) The term " United States" means the United States of America and, when used in a geographical sense, means the States , the District of Columbia, the Territories of Alaska and Hawaii, and Puerto Rico .
(c) The term " Philippines" means the Republic of the Philippines and, when used in a geographical sense , means the territories of 4 the Republic of the Philippines, whether a particular act in question took place, or a particular situation in question existed , within such territories before or after the institution of the Republic of the Philippines. As used herein the territories of the Republic of the Philippines comprise all the territories specified in Section 1 of Article I of the Constitution of the Philippines which is set forth as Annex XI to this Agreement.
(d) The term "ordinary customs duty" means a customs duty based on the article as such (whether or not such duty is also based in any manner on the use, value, or method of production of the article, or on the amount of like articles imported, or on any other factor) ; but does not include(1) A customs duty based on an act or omission of any person with respect to the importation of the article, or of the country from which the article is exported, or from which it comes ; or (2) A countervailing duty imposed to offset a subsidy, bounty, or grant ; or (3) An anti-dumping duty imposed to offset the selling of merchandise for exportation at a price less than the prevailing price in the country of export ; or

61 STAT. ]

July 4, 1946 PHILIPPINES TRADE- Oct. 22, 1946

2623

(4) Any tax, fee, charge, or exaction, imposed on or in

connection with importation unless the law of the

country imposing it designates or imposes it as a

customs duty or contains a provision to the effect

that it shall be treated as a duty imposed under the customs laws ; or

(5) The tax imposed by Section 2491 (c) of the Internal

Revenue Code of the United States, which is set forth as Annex IX to this Agreement, with respect

Post, p. 2630.

to an article, merchandise, or combination , ten

per centum or more of the quantity by weight or which consists of, or is derived directly or indirectly

Post, p. 2633.

from, one or more of the oils, fatty acids, or salts

specified in Section 2470 of such Code which is set forth as Annex VII to this Agreement ; or the tax

Post, p. 2628.

(e) The

imposed by Section 3500 of such Code which is set
forth as Annex X to this Agreement. **
term "United States article" means an article

Post, p. 2631.
"United States article."

which is the product of the United States, unless , in

the case of an article produced with the use of materials imported into the United States from any

foreign country (except the Philippines) the aggregate value of such imported materials at the time of

importation into the United States was more than twenty per centum of the value of the article imported into the Philippines, the value of such article to be determined in accordance with, and as of the time provided by, the customs laws of the Philippines in effect at the time of importation of such article. As used in this Subparagraph the term "value", when used in reference

to a material imported into the United States, includes the value of the material ascertained under the customs

laws of the United States in effect at the time of importa-

tion into the United States, and , if not included in such

value, the cost of bringing the material to the United

States, but does not include the cost of landing it at the port of importation , or customs duties collected in the

United States. For the purposes of this Subparagraph

any imported material, used in the production of an article

in the United States, shall be considered as having been

used in the production of an article subsequently produced

in the United States, which is the product of a chain of production in the United States in the course of which

an article, which is the product of one stage of the chain,

is used by its producer or another person, in a subsequent

stage of the chain, as a material in the production of another article.
(f) The term "Philippine article" means an article which is the product of the Philippines, unless, in the case of an article

"Philippine article."

produced with the use of materials imported into the

2624
"United States duty."
"Philippine duty." "Internal tax." Post, p. 2630.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Philippines from any foreign country (except the United States) the aggregate value of such imported materials at the time of importation into the Philippines was more than twenty per centum of the value of the article imported into the United States, the value of such article to be determined in accordance with, and as of the time provided by, the customs laws of the United States in effect at the time of importation of such article. As used in this Subparagraph the term "value", when used in reference to a material imported into the Philippines, includes the value of the material ascertained under the customs laws of the Philippines in effect at the time of importation into the Philippines, and , if not included in such value, the cost of bringing the material to the Philippines, but does not include the cost of landing it at the port of importation, or customs duties collected in the Philippines . For the purposes of this Subparagraph any imported material, used in the production of an article in the Philippines, shall be considered as having been used in the production of an article subsequently produced in the Philippines, which is the product of a chain of production in the Philippines in the course of which an article, which is the product of one stage of the chain, is used by its producer or another person, in a subsequent stage of the chain, as a material in the production of another article. (9) The term "United States duty" means the rate or rates of ordinary customs duty which (at the time and place of entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, in the United States for consumption, of the Philippine article) would be applicable to a like article if imported from that foreign country which is entitled to the lowest rate, or the lowest aggregate of rates, of ordinary customs duty with respect to such like article. (h) The term " Philippine duty" means the rate or rates of ordinary customs duty which (at the time and place of entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, in the Philippines for consumption, of the United States article ) would be applicable to a like article if imported from that foreign country which is entitled to the lowest rate, or the lowest aggregate of rates, of ordinary customs duty with respect to such like article. (i) The term "internal tax" includes an internal fee, charge, or exaction, and includes-
(1) The tax imposed by Section 2491 (c) of the Internal Revenue Code of the United States which is set forth as Annex IX to this Agreement, with respect to an article, merchandise, or combination, ten per centum or more of the quantity by weight of which consists of, or is derived directly or indirectly

61 STAT. ]

July 4, 1946 PHILIPPINES-TRADE-
Oct. 22, 1946

2625

from, one or more of the oils, fatty acids, or salts specified in Section 2470 of such Code which is set forth as Annex VII to this Agreement ; and the tax imposed by Section 3500 of such Code which is set forth as Annex X to this Agreement ; and
(2) Any other tax, fee, charge, or exaction, imposed on or in connection with importation unless the law of the country imposing it designates or imposes it as a customs duty or contains a provision to the effect that it shall be treated as a duty imposed under the customs laws.

Post, p. 2628. Post, p. 2631.

2. For the purposes of Subparagraphs (g) and (h) of Paragraph 1 of this Protocol-

Foreign country en-
(a) If an article is entitled to be imported from a foreign country titled to lowest rate of ordinary customs
free of ordinary customs duty, that country shall be duty.

considered as the country entitled to the lowest rate of

ordinary customs duty with respect to such article ; and
Equivalent reduc(b) A reduction in ordinary customs duty granted any country, tion in rate.

by law, treaty, trade agreement, or otherwise, with respect

to any article, shall be converted into the equivalent

reduction in the rate of ordinary customs duty otherwise applicable to such article .

Material used in
3. For the purposes of Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article IV, any production of article. Ante, p. 2616.
material, used in the production of an article, shall be considered

as having been used in the production of an article subsequently produced, which is the product of a chain of production in the course

of which an article, which is the product of one stage of the chain,

is used by its producer or another person, in a subsequent stage of

the chain, as a material in the production of another article.

"Includes"; "includ-

4. The terms "includes" and "including" when used in a defini- ing."

tion contained in this Agreement shall not be deemed to exclude

other things otherwise within the meaning of the term defined .

In witness whereof the President of the Philippines and the Plenipotentiary of the President of the United States have signed this Protocol and have affixed hereunto their seals.
Done in duplicate in the English language at Manila, this 4th day of July, one thousand nine hundred forty-six.

[SEAL]

For the President of the United States of America PAUL V. MCNUTT

[SEAL]

President of the Philippines MANUEL ROXAS

2626

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ANNEXES OF STATUTORY PROVISIONS REFERRED TO IN THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES CONCERNING TRADE AND RELATED MATTERS DURING A TRANSITIONAL PERIOD FOLLOWING THE INSTITUTION OF PHILIPPINE INDEPENDENCE

ANNEX I

Sugar Act of 1937 of the United States, as amended to May 1 , 1946 .

7 U. S. C. § 1101.

SECTION 101. For the purposes of this Act, except Title IV"(e) The term ' direct-consumption sugar' means any sugars which are principally of crystalline structure and which are not to be further

refined or otherwise improved in quality." Ch. 898)
ANNEX II

(50 Stat. ) Pt. 1 (903 ,

Tariff Act of 1930 of the United States, as amended to May 1, 1946 .

Post, p. 2633,

"PAR. 1622. All binding twine manufactured from New Zealand hemp, henequen, Manila, istle or Tampico fibre, sisalgrass, or

sunn, or a mixture of any two or more of them, of single ply and

measuring not exceeding seven hundred and fifty feet to the pound" . pa1r9. 1U6.22.S. C. 1001, (46 Stat. ) Pt. 1 (675, Ch. 497)

ANNEX III

Tariff Act of 1930 of the United States, as amended to May 1, 1946 .

pa1r9. 6U0.2. S. C.

"PAR. 602. The term ' wrapper tobacco ' as used in this title means

that quality of leaf tobacco which has the requisite color, texture,

and burn, and is of sufficient size for cigar wrappers, and the term

'filler tobacco' means all other leaf tobacco .

." (46 Stat.)

1001, Pt. 1 (631 , Ch. 497)

ANNEX IV

Internal Revenue Code of the United States, as amended to May 1 , 1946.
"Chapter 16-Oleomargarine, adulterated butter, and process or renovated butter.

53 Stat. 380.
26 U. S. C. §§ 3200, 3201.

"SEC. 2300. Oleomargarine defined . "For the purpose of this chapter, and of sections 3200 and 3201 , certain manufactured substances , certain extracts , and certain mix-

tures and compounds , including such mixtures and compounds with

butter, shall be known and designated as ' oleomargarine,' namely : All substances known prior to August 2 , 1886 , as oleomargarine, oleo,

61 STAT. ]

PHILIPPINES TRADE- July 4, 1946 Oct. 22, 1946

2627

oleomargarine oil , butterine , lardine, suine, and neutral ; all mixtures and compounds of oleomargarine, oleo , oleomargarine oil , butterine, lardine, suine, and neutral ; all lard extracts and tallow extracts ; and all mixtures and compounds of tallow, beef fat, suet , lard , lard oil , fish oil or fish fat, vegetable oil , annatto , and other coloring matter, intestinal fat, and offal fat ;-if ( 1 ) made in imitation or semblance of butter, or (2 ) calculated or intended to be sold as butter or for butter, or (3) churned , emulsified or mixed in cream, milk, water or other liquid, and containing moisture in excess of one per centum or common salt. This section shall not apply to puff-pastry shortening not churned or emulsified in milk, or cream, and having a melting point of one hundred and eighteen degrees Fahrenheit or more, nor to any of the following containing condiments and spices : salad dressings , mayonnaise dressings or mayonnaise products nor to liquid emulsion, pharmaceutical preparations, oil meals , liquid preservatives, illuminating oils , cleansing compounds, or flavoring compounds. (53 Stat.) 247 and 248."
ANNEX V

Post, p. 2633. 26 U. 8. O. § 2300.

Internal Revenue Code of the United States, as amended to May 1 , 1946 .
"SEC. 2306. Importation. "All oleomargarine imported from foreign countries shall , in addition to any import duty imposed on the same, pay an internal revenue tax of fifteen cents per pound , such tax to be represented by coupon stamps as in the case of oleomargarine manufactured in the United States · "SEC. 2320. Definitions . "(a) Butter.- For the purpose of this chapter and sections 3206 and 3207, the word 'butter' shall be understood to mean the food product usually known as butter, and which is made exclusively from milk or cream , or both, with or without common salt and with or without additional coloring matter. "(b) Adulterated butter.-' Adulterated butter' is defined to mean a grade of butter produced by mixing, reworking, rechurning in milk or cream , refining, or in any way producing a uniform , purified , or improved product from different lots or parcels of melted or unmelted butter or butter fat, in which any acid , alkali , chemical , or any substance whatever is introduced or used for the purpose with the effect of deodorizing or removing therefrom rancidity, or any butter or butter fat with which there is mixed any substance foreign to butter as defined in subsection (a) , with intent or effect of cheapening in cost the product, or any butter in the manufacture or manipulation of which any process or material is used with intent or effect of causing the absorption of abnormal quantities of water, milk, or cream. 53 Stat. 252 and 253." "SEC. 2327. Other laws applicable. "(a) Oleomargarine.-The provisions of sections 2301 (c) (2) , 2305 to 2311 , inclusive (except subsections (a) , (b) and (h) of section 2308) ,

Post, p. 2633.

2628

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

25523, 46S7t.at. 248, 249
(c)26(2U)., 2S3.05C-2.31§1, 32739011 (a) (1).

and section 3791 (a) ( 1 ) , shall apply to the manufacturers of adulterated butter to an extent necessary to enforce the marking , branding,
identification , and regulation of the exportation and importation of adulterated butter. 53 Stat . 255." (53 Stat.) Pt. 1 (247 , 250 , 252,

26 U. S. C. § 2306, 253 , and 255 , Ch. 2) 2320, 2327.

ANNEX VI

Internal Revenue Code of the United States, as amended to May 1 , 1946 .

53 Stat. 381.
26 U. S. C. §§ 3210, 3211.

"SEC. 2350. Definitions.
"For the purpose of this chapter and sections 3210 and 3211"(a) Cheese.- The word ' cheese' shall be understood to mean the food product known as cheese, and which is made from milk or cream and without the addition of butter, or any animal, vegetable, or other oils or fats foreign to such milk or cream, with or without additional coloring matter.

"(b) Filled cheese . -Certain substances and compounds shall be known and designated as 'filled cheese ,' namely: all substances

made of milk or skimmed milk, with the admixture of butter, animal

oils or fats , vegetable or any other oils, or compounds foreign to

such milk , and made in imitation or semblance of cheese . Sub-

stances and compounds, consisting principally of cheese with added

edible oils, which are not sold as cheese or as substitutes for cheese

but are primarily useful for imparting a natural cheese flavor to

26 U. S. C. 2350.

other foods shall not be considered 'filled cheese' within the meaning of this chapter. 53 Stat. 256."

"SEC. 2356. Importation.

"All filled cheese as defined in section 2350 ( b ) imported from foreign countries shall, in addition to any import duty imposed on the same,

pay an internal revenue tax of 8 cents per pound , such tax to be represented by coupon stamps ; and such imported filled cheese and

the packages containing the same shall be stamped , marked , and

26 U. S. O. § 2356.

branded, as in the case of filled cheese manufactured in the United States. 53 Stat. 258." (53 Stat . ) Pt . 1 (256 and 258, Ch . 2 )

ANNEX VII
Internal Revenue Code of the United States, as amended to May 1 , 1946 .
"SEC . 2470. Tax. "(a) Rate. "(1) In general.- There shall be imposed upon the first domestic processing of coconut oil, palm oil , palm-kernel oil, fatty acids derived from any of the foregoing oils , salts of any of the foregoing (whether or not such oils, fatty acids, or salts have been refined , sulphonated , sulphated , hydrogenated , or otherwise processed) , or any combination or mixture containing a substantial quantity of any one or more of such oils , fatty acids, or salts , a tax of three cents per pound to be paid by the processor. "(2) Additional rate on coconut oil .- There shall be imposed (in

61 STAT. ]

July 4, 1946 PHILIPPINES TRADE-
Oct. 22, 1946

2629

addition to the tax imposed by the preceding paragraph) a tax of

two cents per pound, to be paid by the processor , upon the first

domestic processing of coconut oil or of any combination or mixture

containing a substantial quantity of coconut oil with respect to which

oil there has been no previous first domestic processing, except that

the tax imposed by this sentence shall not apply when it is established ,

in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Commissioner with

the approval of the Secretary, that such coconut oil (whether or not

contained in such a combination or mixture) , (A) is wholly the pro-

duction of the Philippine Islands or any possession of the United

States, or (B) was produced wholly from materials the growth or

production of the Philippine Islands or any possession of the United States, or (C) was brought into the United States on or before June

9, 1934, or produced from materials brought into the United States

on or before June 9, 1934 , or (D) was purchased under a bona fide

contract entered into prior to April 26 , 1934 , or produced from ma-

terials purchased under a bona fide contract entered into prior to

April 26 , 1934. The tax imposed by this paragraph shall not apply

to any domestic processing after July 3, 1974 .

"(b) Exemption. -The tax under subsection (a) shall not apply

( 1 ) with respect to any fatty acid or salt resulting from a previous first domestic processing taxed under this section or upon which an import tax has been paid under Chapter 22 , or (2 ) with respect to any combination or mixture by reason of its containing an oil , fatty acid, or salt with respect to which there has been a previous first

53 Stat. 267.
26 U. S. C. §§ 24902494.

domestic processing or upon which an import tax has been paid under Chapter 22.

"(c) Importation prior to August 21 , 1936. - Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) and (b ) of this section, the first domestic processing of sunflower oil or sesame oil (or any combination or mix-

ture containing a substantial quantity of sunflower oil or sesame oil ) , if such oil or such combination or mixture or such oil contained

therein was imported prior to August 21 , 1936 , shall be taxed in

accordance with the provisions of section 602 ½% of the Revenue Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 763, in force on June 22, 1936. 53 Stat . 264. " (53 Stat. ) Pt . 1 (264 and 265 , Ch. 2 ; Pub. Law 371-79th Cong. )

26 U. S. C. § 2470. 60 Stat. 141.
22 U. S. C. § 1251 note.

An Act of the United States to suspend in part the processing tax on coconut oil , as amended to May 1 , 1946 .

"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 2470 (a) (2) of the Internal Revenue Code is hereby suspended : Provided, That if the President after receipt by him of a request from the Government of the Commonwealth of the Philippine Islands that the suspension of section 2470 (a) (2) be terminated, shall find that adequate supplies of copra, coconut oil , or both, the product of the Philippine Islands, are readily available for processing in the United States , he shall so proclaim ; and thirty days after such proclamation , the suspension of section 2470 (a) (2) of the Internal Revenue Code, shall terminate.
95347°-49-PT. III- 23

2630

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Post, p. 2633. 26 U. s. C. note.

"SEC. 2. This Act shall become effective the day following its en2470 actment, and shall terminate on May 30, 1946. " (56 Stat. ) Pt.
1 (752 and 753, Ch. 560) ; (58 Stat . ) Pt . 1 (647 , Ch. 332)

ANNEX VIII

Act of March 24, 1934 of the United States, as amended to May 1, 1946 .

"SEC. 8. (a) Effective upon the acceptance of this Act by concur-

rent resolution of the Philippine Legislature or by a convention called

for that purpose, as provided in section 17-

"(1) For the purposes of the Immigration Act of 1917, the Immi-

39 Stat. 874; 43 Stat.

153.

gration Act of 1924 (except section 13 (c) , this section, and all other

SU. 8. C. §201 note. laws of the United States relating to the immigration , exclusion, or

expulsion of aliens, citizens of the Philippine Islands who are not citizens of the United States shall be considered as if they were aliens.

For such purposes the Philippine Islands shall be considered as a

separate country and shall have for each fiscal year a quota of fifty. This paragraph shall not apply to a person coming or seeking to come

to the Territory of Hawaii who does not apply for and secure an im-

migration or passport visa, but such immigration shall be determined

by the Department of the Interior on the basis of the needs of industries

in the Territory of Hawaii. 48 Stat. 462." Ch. 84)
ANNEX IX

(48 Stat . ) Pt . 1 (462 ,

26 U.S. O. §2490.
53 Stat. 264. 26 U. S. O. § 2470.

Internal Revenue Code of the United States, as amended to May 1 , 1946 .
"SEC. 2490. Imposition of Tax. "In addition to any other tax or duty imposed by law, there shall be imposed upon the following articles imported into the United States, unless treaty provisions of the United States otherwise provide, a tax at the rates set forth in section 2491 , to be paid by the importer. 53 Stat. 267." "SEC. 2491. Rate of Tax. "(c) Any article , merchandise, or combination (except oils specified in section 2470) , 10 per centum or more of the quantity by weight of which consists of, or is derived directly or indirectly from, one or more of the products specified above in this paragraph or of the oils , fatty acids , or salts specified in section 2470, a tax at the rate or rates per pound equal to that proportion of the rate or rates prescribed in this paragraph or such section 2470 in respect of such product or products which the quantity by weight of the imported article, merchandise, or combination, consisting of or derived from such product or products, bears to the total weight of the imported article , merchandise , or combination ; but there shall not be taxable under this subparagraph any article, merchandise, or combination (other than an oil, fat, or grease, and other than products resulting from processing seeds without full commercial extraction of the oil content) , by reason of the presence therein of an oil, fat, or grease which is a natural component of such article, merchandise, or combination and has never had a

61 STAT. ]

PHILIPPINES TRADE- July 4, 1946 Oct. 22, 1946

2631

separate existence as an oil, fat, or grease. 53 Stat. 267 and 268." (53 Stat. ) Pt. 1 (267 and 268, Ch. 2)

26 U. 8. O. § 2491.

ANNEX X

Internal Revenue Code of the United States, as amended to May 1 , 1946.
"CHAPTER 32. Sugar. "SEC. 3500. Rate of Tax.
"In addition to any other tax or duty imposed by law, there shall be imposed, under such regulations as the Commissioner of Customs shall prescribe, with the approval of the Secretary, a tax upon articles imported or brought into the United States as follows:
"(1) On all manufactured sugar testing by the polariscope ninetytwo sugar degrees, 0.465 cent per pound, and for each additional sugar degree shown by the polariscopic test, 0.00875 cent per pound additional, and fractions of a degree in proportion ;
"(2) On all manufactured sugar testing by the polariscope less than ninety-two sugar degrees 0.5144 cent per pound of the total sugars therein ;
"(3) On all articles composed in chief value of manufactured sugar 0.5144 cent per pound of the total sugars therein. 53 Stat. 428. "
"SEC. 3507. Definitions .
"(b) Manufactured sugar.- The term ' manufactured sugar' means any sugar derived from sugar beets or sugar cane, which is not to be, and which shall not be, further refined or otherwise improved in quality ; except sugar in liquid form which contains nonsugar solids (excluding any foreign substance that may have been added) equal to more than 6 per centum of the total soluble solids, and except also sirup of cane juice produced from sugar cane grown in continental United States.
"The grades or types of sugar within the meaning of this definition shall include, but shall not be limited to , granulated sugar, lump sugar, cube sugar , powdered sugar, sugar in the form of blocks , cones, or molded shapes, confectioners' sugar, washed sugar, centrifugal sugar, clarified sugar , turbinado sugar, plantation white sugar, muscovado sugar, refiners ' soft sugar, invert sugar mush, raw sugar, sirups , molasses, and sugar mixtures .
"(c) Total sugars.-The term ' total sugars' means the total amount of the sucrose (Clerget) and of the reducing or invert sugars. The total sugars contained in any grade or type of manufactured sugar shall be ascertained in the manner prescribed in paragraphs 758, 759 , 762 , and 763 of the United States Customs Regulations (1931 edition) . 53 Stat . 428 and 429. " (53 Stat . ) Pt . 1 (426 , 428 , and 429 , Ch. 2) .

26 U.S. O. § 3500. Post, p. 2633.
26 U.S. O. § 3507.

ANNEX XI

Constitution of the Philippines as amended to May 1 , 1946. "ARTICLE I.-THE NATIONAL TERRITORY "SECTION 1. The Philippines comprises all the territory ceded to the United States by the Treaty of Paris concluded between the

2632
Ante, p. 2614. Ante, p. 2615. Ante, p. 2615.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

United States and Spain on the tenth day of December, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, the limits of which are set forth in Article III of said treaty , together with all the islands embraced in the treaty concluded at Washington, between the United States and Spain on the seventh day of November , nineteen hundred , and in the treaty concluded between the United States and Great Britain on the second
day of January, nineteen hundred and thirty, and all territory over which the present Government of the Philippine Islands exercises jurisdiction . "

WHEREAS the Ambassador of the United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines and the Vice-President and Concurrently Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines have exchanged notes making certain clarifying amendments to said agreement , which notes are in words and figures as follows:

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

EXCELLENCY :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
October 22, 1946.

I have the honor to make the following statement of my Government's understanding of recent conversations held at Manila relative to the correction of certain typographical errors in the Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines concerning Trade and Related Matters during a Transitional Period following the Institution of Philippine Independence, signed at Manila on July 4 , 1946 , and in the Protocol and the Annexes to that Agreement , and relative to the making of certain clarifying amendments therein.

1. In Article II , Paragraph 3 , second sentence, (a) the phrase

"unrefined sugar specified in Item A" shall be changed to read "unre-

fined sugars specified in Item A", (b) the phrase " refined sugar specified in Item A- 1 " shall be changed to read " refined sugars specified in

Item A- 1 " , and (c) the phrase "shall be allotted annually by the

Philippines" shall be changed to read " shall be allocated annually by the Philippines ".

2. The column headings of the Schedule to Article II and Items A

and A-1 of such Schedule shall be changed to read as follows:

"Items

Classes ofArticles

Amounts

A

Sugars

A- 1 of which not to exceed ·

952,000 short tons, 56,000 short tons

may be refined sugars, meaning ' directconsumption sugar' as defined in Section

101 of the Sugar Act of 1937 of the United States which is set forth in part

as Annex I to this Agreement."

3. In Item B of the Schedule to Article II the phrase " including binding twines described" shall be changed to read " including bind-

61 STAT. ]

PHILIPPINES-TRADE- July 4, 1946 Oct. 22, 1946

2633

ing twine described ", and the word "Manila " shall be changed to read "manila" .
4. In Item G of the Schedule to Article II the word "Buttoms" should be changed to read "Buttons" .
5. In Article III , Paragraph 1 the word "and" shall be inserted after the semicolon at the end of indented Subparagraph (a) .
6. Article III , Paragraph 2 shall be changed to read as follows:
"2. If the President of the United States finds that the allocation of any quota established pursuant to Paragraph 1 of this Article is necessary to make the application of the quota just and reasonable between the United States and the Philippines, the United States shall have the right to provide the basis for the allocation of such quota, and, if the United States exercises such right, the Philippines will promptly put and keep in effect, on the basis provided by the United States, the allocation of such quota."
7. In the last sentence of Article IV, Paragraph 2 the word "Sections" shall be changed to read "Section".
8. In Article IV, Paragraph 5 the word "Manila" shall be changed to read "manila" .
9. In Article V the phrase "into the United States dollars " shall be changed to read "into United States dollars " .
10. In clause (b) of the first sentence of Article VIII, Paragraph 1 the phrase "and continnue in effect" shall be changed to read "and continue in effect".
11. At the end of Article X, Paragraph 2 the phrase "six months' notice . " shall be changed to read "six months' written notice."
12. In clause (5) of Subparagraph (d) of Paragraph 1 of the Protocol the phrase "weight or which consists of" shall be changed to read "weight of which consists of" .
13. In Annex II the word "Manila" shall be changed to read "manila" .
14. In the last sentence of Annex IV, Section 2300 delete the comma after the word "milk".
15. In Annex V, Section 2320 , Subsection (b) the phrase "used for the purpose with the effect of" shall be changed to read "used for the purpose or with the effect of" .
16. At the end of Annex VII the date "May 30, 1946. " shall be changed to read "June 30, 1946."
17. In Annex X, Section 3507 , Subsection (b) the phrase "sugar beets or sugar cane" shall be changed to "sugar beets or sugarcane ".
Since this note includes the matters covered by the notes exchanged on July 5 , 1946 and July 16, 1946 relative to the correction of two typographical errors in said Agreement of July 4 , 1946 , the present exchange of notes shall supersede such earlier exchange of notes.
If the above provisions are acceptable to the Government of the Republic of the Philippines this note and the reply signifying assent thereto shall, if agreeable to that Government, be regarded as amending the said Agreement of July 4, 1946 , and the Protocol and Annexes thereto, and as constituting an integral part thereof.

Ante, p. 2015. Ante, p. 2615. Ante, p. 2616.
Ante, p. 2617. Ante, p. 2617. Ante, p. 2617. Ante, p. 2619. Ante, p. 2621. Ante, p. 2623. Ante, p. 2626. Ante, p. 2627. Ante, p. 2627. Ante, p. 2630. Ante, p. 2631.

2634

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
PAUL V. MCNUTT His Excellency
ELPIDIO QUIRINO, Secretary for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

MANILA, October 22, 1946

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's note of today's date recording your Government's understanding of recent conversations held at Manila relative to the correction of

certain typographical errors in the Agreement between the United

States of America and the Republic of the Philippines concerning trade

and related matters during a transitional period following the institu-

tion of Philippine Independence, signed at Manila on July 4, 1946 , and in the Protocol and the Annexes to that Agreement, and relative

to the making of certain clarifying amendments therein.

I have the honor to confirm your Excellency's statement with

regard to this matter and to state that my Government is agreeable

that your note and this reply signifying assent thereto shall be regarded

as amending the said Agreement of July 4 , 1946 , and the Protocol and

the Annexes thereto , and as constituting an integral part thereof.

Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my most distinguished consideration.

ELPIDIO QUIRINO Vice-President and concurrently

His Excellency

Secretary of Foreign Affairs

PAUL V. MCNUTT

American Ambassador to the Philippines Manila

60 Stat. 154. 22 U. S. C. § 1348. 60 Stat. 151. 22 U. S. C. § 1341.
Ante, p. 2620.

WHEREAS Section 408 of the said Philippine Trade Act of 1946 provides as follows :
When the President of the United States determines that the executive agreement entered into under section 401 has been accepted by the Congress of the Philippines by law and that the Congress of the Philippines has enacted the legislation the enactment of which is, under section 401 , a condition precedent to the taking effect of the agreement , he shall so proclaim , and in his proclamation specify the effective date of the agreement.;
WHEREAS Article X of the said agreement provides that it shall not take effect unless and until the Congress of the Philippines accepts it by law and , except as otherwise expressly provided in the agreement, has enacted such legislation as may be necessary to make all the

61 STAT. ]

PHILIPPINES TRADE- July 4, 1946 Oct. 22, 1946

2635

provisions of the agreement placing obligations on the Philippines take effect as laws of the Philippines, and that the agreement shall

then be proclaimed by the President of the United States of America

and by the President of the Philippines, and shall enter into force on

the day following the date of such proclamations, or, if they are issued

on different dates, on the day following the later in date ; and WHEREAS the President of the United States of America has deter-
mined that the Congress of the Philippines by Act of July 3 , 1946

Acceptance of agreement by Congress of
the Philippines.

accepted the aforesaid agreement and has enacted such legislation as is required by said section 408 of the Philippine Trade Act of 1946 and said Article X of the agreement ;

60 Stat. 154. 22 Stat. § 1348. Ante, p. 2620.

NOW, THEREFORE, be it known that I , Harry S. Truman , President of the United States of America, acting pursuant to the authority

conferred by the said section 408 of the Philippine Trade Act of 1946 , do hereby proclaim that the said agreement has been accepted by the Congress of the Philippines by law and that the Congress of the Philippines has enacted the legislation required as a condition precedent to the taking effect of the agreement, and do proclaim the said agreement and the said notes to the end that the same and every part thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States of America, the citizens of the United States of America, and all other persons subject to the jurisdiction thereof, on and after the day following the proclamation of the said agreement and the said notes by the President of the Philippines as provided for in Article X of the said agreement.
Following the said proclamation by the President of the Philippines,

Ante, p. 2620.

I shall proclaim the date of entry into force of the said agreement and the said notes .
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed .

DONE at the city of Washington this seventeenth day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred

[SEAL]

forty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred seventy-first .

By the President : JAMES F BYRNES

HARRY S TRUMAN

Secretary of State

2636

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SUPPLEMENTARY PROCLAMATION

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA A PROCLAMATION

60 Stat. 151. 22 U. S. C. § 1341.
Ante, pp. 2632, 2634.

WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority conferred by section 401 of the Act of the Congress of the United States of America of April 30 , 1946 entitled "Philippine Trade Act of 1946 " (Public Law 371 , 79th Congress) , the President of the United States of America through his duly empowered Plenipotentiary entered into an agreement on July 4, 1946 with the President of the Philippines ;
WHEREAS on October 22, 1946 the Ambassador of the United

States of America to the Republic of the Philippines and the VicePresident and Concurrently Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Re-

public of the Philippines exchanged notes making certain clarifying amendments to the said agreement ;

WHEREAS, by proclamation of December 17 , 1946 , the President of the United States of America proclaimed that the said agreement

has been accepted by the Congress of the Philippines by law and that

the Congress of the Philippines has enacted the legislation required

as a condition precedent to the taking effect of the agreement, and proclaimed the said agreement, including the said notes, to the end that the same and every part thereof may be observed and fulfilled

with good faith by the United States of America, the citizens of the United States of America, and all other persons subject to the juris-

diction thereof on and after the day following the proclamation of the

Ante, p. 2620.
Proclamation by President of Philippines.
Entry into force.

said agreement by the President of the Philippines as provided for in Article X of the said agreement; and
WHEREAS the said agreement and the said notes were proclaimed by the President of the Philippines on January 1 , 1947 ;
NOW, THEREFORE, be it known that I, Harry S. Truman, President

of the United States of America , supplementing my said proclamation

of December 17 , 1946 , do hereby proclaim that the said agreement

and the said notes entered into force on January 2, 1947, the day following January 1 , 1947, the date of the proclamation of the said

agreement and the said notes by the President of the Philippines. IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and caused
the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed .

DONE at the city of Washington this eighth day of January, in the

[ SEAL]

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred forty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America

the one hundred seventy-first.

HARRY S TRUMAN

By the President : JAMES F BYRNES

Secretary of State

61 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM- CUSTOMS PRIVILEGES- Jan. 18, 1946 Feb. 21, 1946

2637

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting prevention of abuses of customs privileges at certain leased naval and air bases. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington January 18 and February 21, 1946; effective February 21 , 1946.

January 18 and February 21, 1946
[T. I. A. S. 1592]

The British Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

No. 35 Ref : 265/2/46

BRITISH EMBASSY, WASHINGTON, D.C. January 18th, 1946.

SIR,

I have the honour to inform Your Excellency that the Government

of the United Kingdom has agreed to the following understanding

in respect of paragraph ( 1 ) ( D ) of Article XIV of the Agreement for the Use and Operation of Certain Bases which was concluded between the Governments of the United States and of the United Kingdom at London on March 27th, 1941 , insofar as that Agree-

55 Stat. 1566.

ment relates to bases in Bermuda , in the Caribbean and in British Guiana :

(a) By arrangement with the United States authorities, the Colo-

Cooperation with Colonial authorities to

nial authorities will be shown and have explained to them the ad- ptroemvsenprtiavibluesgeess.of cus-

ministrative measures taken to prevent the unauthorised resale of goods sold under Article XIV ( 1 ) (C) and other precautions taken

55 Stat. 1566.

to prevent abuse of customs privileges granted under that Article.

(b) The United States authorities will undertake to ensure that

free importation is strictly limited to goods covered by the above-

mentioned Agreement and subsequent correspondence and , in par-

ticular, that goods outside the interpretation given by the Government of the United Kingdom to Article XIV ( 1 ) ( D ) but within

that given to it by the Government of the United States ( consumable

goods and goods acquired after first arrival) and presents are not

admitted free of duty unless they comply with the conditions already

agreed, i.e. they must be (i) of United States origin, if the Colonial

Government so requires, ( ii ) imported by (or presents for ) United

States personnel described in Article XIV ( 1 ) ( C ) , and ( iii) imported

for the personal use of the recipient.

(c) This understanding and these arrangements are subject to and without prejudice to reconsideration of the question ab initio in due course.
(d) It is, of course, also understood that the United States will

continue to do all in their power to prevent any abuse of customs privileges and that United States authorities will co -operate with

2638

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
the Colonial authorities to this end at every level both in prevention and in investigation of cases where there is evidence of leakage.
2. If the Government of the United States agrees to this understanding, I would suggest that the present Note and Your Excellency's reply to that effect be regarded as placing it on record.
I have the honour to be with the highest consideration Sir, Your most obedient humble Servant, JOHN BALFOUR. (For the Ambassador)
The Honourable DEAN ACHESON, Acting Secretary of State, Department of State, Washington, D.C.

55 Stat. 1566. 55 Stat. 1566.

The Secretary of State to the British Ambassador DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

EXCELLENCY :

February 21 , 1946

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's note no. 35 of January 18, 1946 ( Ref : 265/2/46 ) , stating that the Government of the United Kingdom has agreed to the following understanding in respect of paragraph (1 ) ( D) of Article XIV of the Agreement for the Use and Operation of Certain Bases, which was concluded between the Governments of the United States and of the United

Kingdom at London on March 27, 1941, in so far as that Agreement relates to Bases in Bermuda, in the Caribbean and in British Guiana :

"(a) By arrangement with the United States authorities, the Colonial authorities will be shown and have explained to them the administrative measures taken to prevent the unauthorised resale of goods sold under Article XIV ( 1 ) ( C) and other precautions taken to prevent abuse of customs privileges granted under that Article.
"(b) The United States authorities will undertake to ensure that free importation is strictly limited to goods covered by the above-mentioned Agreement and subsequent correspondence and, in particular, that goods outside the interpretation given by the Government of the United Kingdom to Article XIV ( 1 ) ( D) but within that given to it by the Government of the United States (consumable goods and goods acquired after first arrival ) and presents are not admitted free of duty unless they comply with the conditions already agreed, i.e. they must be ( i ) of United States origin, if the Colonial Government so requires, ( ii ) imported by ( or presents for ) United States personnel described in Article XIV ( 1 ) ( C ) , and (iii ) imported for the personal use of the recipient.

Jan. 18, 1946 61 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM- CUSTOMS PRIVILEGES- Feb. 21, 1946
"(c) This understanding and these arrangements are subject to and without prejudice to reconsideration of the question ab initio in due course.
"(d) It is, of course, also understood that the United States will continue to do all in their power to prevent any abuse of customs privileges and that United States authorities will co-operate with the Colonial authorities to this end at every level both in prevention and in investigation of cases where there is evidence of leakage."
In reply I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Government of the United States agrees with the above understanding and that Your Excellency's note and this reply will be regarded as placing it on record.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
For the Secretary of State : DONALD RUSSELL
His Excellency The Right Honorable THE EARL OF HALIFAX, K.G. , British Ambassador.

2639

2640

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

March 21, 1947 (T. I. A. S. 1593]

Agreement between the United States of America and the Union of
South Africa respecting a mutual aid settlement. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington March 21 , 1947; effective March 21, 1947.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Minister of the Union of South Africa

SIR :

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON March 21, 1947

Representatives of the Governments of the United States of America and the Union of South Africa have now finished their discussions

concerning the settlement of Lend-Lease, Reciprocal Aid , Surplus War Property and Claims. Accord has been reached on all points as set forth in the accompanying document, which gives complete terms of the overall settlement accepted by both sides.
The Government of the United States of America hereby signifies its acceptance of the terms and conditions of settlement set forth in

the accompanying document entitled "Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Union of South Africa on Settlement for Lend-Lease, Reciprocal

Aid, Surplus War Property, and Claims" and suggests that this note and your reply indicating acceptance by the Government of the Union

of South Africa be regarded as placing on record the agreement of our two Governments in this matter, to take effect on this date.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. DEAN ACHESON

Acting Secretary of State Enclosure :
Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Union of South Africa.

The Honorable H.T. ANDREWS , Minister of the Union of South Africa.

61 STAT. ] SOUTH AFRICA--MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAR. 21, 1947

2641

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA ON SETTLEMENT FOR LEND-LEASE, RECIPROCAL AID, SURPLUS WAR PROPERTY, AND CLAIMS

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Union of South Africa have reached agreement as set forth below regarding settlement for all lend- lease and reciprocal aid , for the surplus war property specified herein , and for the financial claims of each Government against the other arising as the result of World War II. This settlement is complete and final. Both Governments, in arriving at this settlement, have taken full cognizance of the benefits already received by them in the defeat of their common enemies, and of the aid furnished by each Government to the other in the course of the war. No further benefits will be sought as consideration for lend-lease or reciprocal aid, for the surplus war property specified herein, or for the settlement of claims or other obligations arising out of the war, except as herein specifically provided.
In reaching this agreement, the two Governments , pursuant to the general obligations assumed by them in the exchange of notes dated April 17, 1945, in Washington , D. C. , reaffirm their intention to

60 Stat. 1579.

cooperate in formulating a program of agreed action, open to partici-

pation by all countries of like mind , directed to the expansion, by ap-

propriate international and domestic measures, of production, employ-

ment, and the exchange and consumption of goods, to the elimination

of all forms of discriminatory treatment in international commerce,

and to the reduction of tariffs and other trade barriers. To this end,

the two governments have reached substantial mutual accord on

agreements relating to air transportation, telecommunications and

the avoidance of double estate and income taxation.

1. (a ) The term " lend - lease article" as used in this Agreement means "Lend-lease article."

any article transferred by the Government of the United States of America under the Act of March 11, 1941 ;
(i) to the Government of the Union of South Africa, or

55 Stat. 31.
22 U. S. C. §§ 411419.

(ii) to any other Government and retransferred to the Govern-

ment ofthe Union of South Africa.

(b) The term "reciprocal aid article " as used in this Agreement

"Reciprocal aid article. "

means any article transferred by the Government of the Union of

South Africa to the Government of the United States of America under

reciprocal aid. 2. The net sum due from the Union of South Africa to the Govern-
ment of the United States of America, over and above any payments

Net sum due from Union ofSouth Africa.

heretofore made , for the settlement of lend-lease and reciprocal aid,

for acquisition of surplus war property specified herein, and for settlement of net outstanding claims covered by this Agreement , shall be One Hundred Million United States dollars, one-half of this sum

2642

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Acquisition of title to designated articles
bAfyricUan. ion of South

being payable within thirty ( 30) days , the remaining half within one hundred eighty ( 180 ) days, from the date on which this Agreement becomes effective.
3. The Government of the Union of South Africa hereby acquires full title, without qualification as to disposition or use, to all lendlease articles in the possession of the Government of the Union of South Africa, its agents or transferees, on the date of this Agreement, except vessels covered by paragraph 6 of this Agreement ; provided that the Government of the Union of South Africa hereby agrees

Acquisition of title to reciprocal aid articles by U. S.

not to transfer to any third country, without the prior consent of the Government of the United States of America and without payment of any proceeds to the Government of the United States of America, any lend- lease article held by it in the categories of arms, ammunition and lethal weapons. The Government of the Union of South Africa, upon completion of the necessary formalities, shall receive full title, without qualification as to disposition or use, to items of property listed in the Schedule attached hereto.
4. The Government of the United States of America hereby acquires full title, without qualification as to disposition or use, to all reciprocal aid articles in the possession of the Government of the United States of America, its agents or transferees, on the date of this Agreement.

5. This Agreement does not cover articles of lend-lease origin,

regardless of their present location, with respect to which the Government of the Union of South Africa has not acknowledged responsibility

or accountability to the Government of the United States of America

(even if such articles are now in the physical possession of the Government of the Union of South Africa, its agents or transferees ) except

Return of vessels by Union ofSouth Africa.

as such articles may be listed in the Schedule attached hereto. 6. The Government of the Union of South Africa will, unless other-
wise agreed, return as soon as possible after receiving notice of the request for return all vessels procured or constructed out of funds

Settlement and payment of claims by Union ofSouth Africa.

appropriated to the United States Navy Department or the United States Maritime Commission and transferred to it under lend-lease.
7. (a) The Government of the Union of South Africa hereby assumes responsibility for the settlement and payment of all claims

against the Government of the United States of America or members

of the United States Armed Forces arising from acts or omissions

occurring before June 30, 1946, in the course of military duties of members of the United States Armed Forces in the Union of South

Waiver of claims.

Africa. (b) All financial claims whatsoever of one Government against

the other which (i ) arose out of lend-lease or reciprocal aid, or ( ii ) otherwise arose on or after September 3, 1939 and prior to September

Nonapplicability.

2, 1945, out of or incidental to the conduct of World War II are hereby waived, and neither Government will hereafter raise or pursue any such claims against the other. The foregoing waiver shall not

be applicable to claims of the Government of the United States of

America against the Government of the Union of South Africa arising

out of cash reimbursement orders for lend-lease articles filed by

61 STAT.] SOUTH AFRICA-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAR. 21, 1947

2643

the Union of South Africa ; however, such portion of the sum of $100 million payable under paragraph 2 above as may be necessary to discharge the obligations of the Government of the Union of South

Africa in connection with these existing arrangements shall be used for this purpose and no additional payment of any kind shall be required. The foregoing waiver shall also not be applicable to claims

submitted in accordance with the practice whereby one Government espouses a claim of one of its nationals and presents it through diplomatic channels to the other Government.

8. In consideration of the mutual undertakings of this Agreement, the two Governments hereby waive all claims whatsoever of one Government against the other arising out of all disposals made by the War Stores Disposal Board of the Union of South Africa of

articles title to which is acquired by the Union of South Africa under this Agreement.
9. In connection with property acquired under this Agreement, the Government of the Union of South Africa will observe and will call

Importation of surplus property into U. s.

the attention of any transferee to the regulations of the United States Department of State which prohibit , except in certain cases, the importation into the United States of America of surplus property sold in

foreign areas. 10. Both Governments, when they dispose of articles acquired pur- riAmvioniadtainocne in dis-

suant to the terms of this Agreement, will use their best endeavors to avoid discrimination against the legitimate interests of the manufacturers or producers of such articles, or their agents or distributors, in each country.
11. This Agreement shall take effect on the date of its acceptance by both Governments.
SCHEDULE

posal of articles. Post, p. 2647.

Property to which the Union of South Africa shall receive full title on a "where is, as is" basis upon completion of the necessary formalities of transfer.

A. This category comprises property located in the Union of South Africa noted as "B L/L Material Held by U. K. Government" on a list headed "Lend Lease Material on hand in South Africa which

Property located in Union ofSouth Africa.

Union Government is prepared to consider purchasing." handed

the United States negotiators by the South African negotiators on

August 7, 1946 and consists of items thereon as follows :

(vii) 25 C-47 Aircraft.

(viii ) 25 Vega P. V. 1. Aircraft.

(ix) 120 Harvard Aircraft.

(x)

60 Spare P. & W. Engines for Harvard Aircraft.

(xi ) (xii )

Spares to maintain 80 Harvards and their engines. 60 P. & W. Engines ( R 1830-90 C) and American Pro-
peller and instrument equipment installed in 15 Sunderland Aircraft.

(xiii) 14 P. & W. Engines R 1830-90 C (spares for Sunderland ) .

2644

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Property for transfer in Italy. re- B. This category comprises property consent to the retransfer of
which from U.K. Military Holdings in Italy to the South African

Forces in Italy is given in letter from the Lend Lease Adminis-

trator, State Department to British Army Staff dated January 3, 1947 [1] and consists of property listed below. It should be noted

that the consent to retransfer of January 3, 1947 specifically does

not cover any items which might no longer have been available at

THRE

the time and that, therefore, the quantities listed below are sub-

ject to revision to that effect.

Tank Sherman 1BM4 ( 105mm )

66

66

11A M4A1 ( 76mm )

66

66

1C M4 ( 17 pr)

66 ARV T/5 M32B1

GMC 3-in M10 ( SP )

Tank Amn (to match the above) 76-mm H.E.

76-mm A.P.

76-mm Smoke

105-mm H.E.

105-mm A.P.

105-mm Smoke

Car 5 cwt 4x4

Trailer 5 cwt 2 wh Amphibian GS Tractors Gun 5.5 in ( Mack)

Tractors Gun 3.7 in H.A.A. ( Mack)

Lorry 3 ton 4/6 wh Machy GMC

Lorry 5 ton 4/6 wh Tech Machy Shop GMC

Lorry 3 ton 4/6 wh Instruments Wksp GMC

Lorry 3 ton 4/6 wh Welding GMC

Lorry 3 ton 4/6 wh Machy type Z GMC

6 x 6 Wrecker B/D Ward la France

Tractor tracked D4 Bulldozer Caterpillar

Tractor tracked D7 Bulldozer Caterpillar

Tractor tracked D8 Caterpillar

Tractor 6 x 4 B/D Diamond T

Tractor 6 x 4 B/D Mack

Tractor 6 x 6 B/D Diamond T

Tptr 20 ton 6x4-4 Semi trailer Federal

Tractor 6x4 for 40 ton Tptr trailer Diamond T

Trailer 40 ton 24 wh Tptr Rogers

Compressors Ingersoll Rand K160 Truck Mtd

66

66

66 66 Portable

66

66

66 K210 66

66

Le Roi K160 Truck Mtd

46

66 66 66 Portable

66

Chicago Pneumatic K210 Truck Mtd

66

66

66

K500 Portable

66

Davey D160 Portable

Compressor Davey CD 14 Portable

Compressors Gardner Denver BUG4010 Stationary

Compressors Curtiss 50 cu/ft/min approx Stationary

66

Curtiss 210 cu/ft/min approx Stationary

66

Sullivan 160 cu/ft/min Stationary

15 67 15 1 24
89,000 34, 500 13, 500 20,000 7,500 3,000
2 2 9
6
5
8
6 1 6 2 7 1 1 3 1 1

4232HH2CGL241242222 HONTHHHH

1 [Not printed. ]

61 STAT. ] SOUTH AFRICA-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAR. 21 , 1947

Bulldozers with PCU Caterpillar D8

2

66

66 66

66

D7

3

66

66 66

66



3

66

66

Hysterwinch Caterpillar D4

1

66

Cable operated Caterpillar D7

2

66

W/out PCU Caterpillar D6

1

66

66

66

66



2

Angledozers with PCU Caterpillar D8

6

66

66

66

66

D7

66

66

66



8

46

66

66

66



3

Angledozers with Hyster winch Caterpillar D8

1

66

W/out PCU Caterpillar D8

1

66

66

66

66



5

Tractors Solo Caterpillar D8

1

66

66

66



66 With PCU Caterpillar D8

4

66

66 66

66

D7

5

Tptr Tractors wh M/30 Caterpillar

1

Tptr Tractors Diamond T

4

Tptr Tractors Federal

4

Tptr Tractors Mack 10 ton

4

Tptr Tractors Mack 6 ton

1

Trailers Rogers 40 ton

6

Trailers Rogers 30 ton

4

Trailers Rogers 10 ton

1

Trailers Federal

4

Trailers 8 wh Tech Mob Wksp Freuhauf

1

Trailers Machy Freuhauf

1

Trailers 8 wh Stores Freuhauf

2

Truck 6x6 Tech Mob Wksp USA GMC

1

Excavators Michigan Truck Mtd

2

Excavators Quickway Truck Mtd

1

Motor Graders Caterpillar 12

9

Motor Graders Caterpillar Auto 112

6

Motor Graders Galion 101 Pet

1

Graders Caterpillar 66 drawn blade

5

Graders Adams drawn blade

1

Crane D4 Caterpillar

1

Crane Truck Mtd type "E" Quickway

1

Crane T61 Michigan

1

Crane WH P and H 8 ton

134123 242724

Scrapers 8 cu yd Tourneau Carryall

Scrapers 6 cu yd Tourneau Carryall

Rooters Le Tourneau S8

66 66

66

K30

Rippers Le Tourneau Timte Trailer with following accessories for Quickway Crane,
Clamshell and Dragline

Machine Spray Painting Curtiss Plant Spray Painting Aerograph

Welding Plants Electric Hobart

17

Welding Plants Dual Arc

Welding Plants Electric Portable

Welding Plants Electric Arc

1

Pillar Drilling Machine Pollard Corna

1

Milling Machine Milwaukee

1

Grinder Pedestal

1

95347°-49- PT. III- -24

2645

2646

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Furnace Heat Treatment

1

Machine Drilling Sets Pollard

1

Generator Set 50 Kva Caterpillar D8/D4

4

Pipe Screwing Machine Osler

1

Press Straightening Machine Weaver

1

Bandsaw

1

Generating Sets "Buddha" 31.2 kva 220/380v

2

Rifle No. 4 MK-1 "T" Snipers

60

SoBuotahtsAfsrhiciappeudndetro requisition.

C. This category comprises property shipped to South Africa under requisition filed by the British Admiralty Delegation and consists of the following :

11 Miami 63 ft. Aircraft Rescue Boats

The Government of the Union of South Africa shall offer these boats for return to the Government of the United States after which title shall be transferred to the Union of South Africa in accordance with procedures for the disposal of surplus property.

61 STAT. ] SOUTH AFRICA-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAR. 21, 1947

2647

The Minister ofthe Union of South Africa to the Acting Secretary of State

LEGATION OF

THE UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA

C. 84

WASHINGTON 8, D. C.

SIR,

21st March, 1947.

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Note of today's

date concerning the discussions which have taken place between representatives of our two Governments on the subject of the settlement

of Lend -Lease and related matters, and setting forth terms and con-

ditions which are acceptable to the Government of the United States

of America in a document attached thereto entitled , "Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Gov-

ernment of the Union of South Africa on Settlement for Lend -Lease,

Reciprocal Aid, Surplus War Property, and Claims".

At the direction of my Government , I have the honour to state that the terms and conditions contained in the document which accom-

panied your Note are acceptable to the Government of the Union of South Africa.

The Government of the Union of South Africa agrees that your Note

and this reply shall be regarded as placing on record the Agreement of our two Governments in this matter, and that the Agreement shall take effect on this date.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. H. T. ANDREWS
The Honourable DEAN ACHESON, Acting Secretary of State of the United States of America, Department of State, Washington, D.C.

Effective date.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- REPARATION-JUNE 14, 1946

2649

Agreement between the United States of America and other governments respecting reparation to non-repatriable_victims of German action. Signed at Paris June 14 , 1946; effective June 14, 1946.

June 14, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1594]

AGREEMENT
ON A PLAN FOR ALLOCATION OF A REPARATION SHARE TO NON-REPATRIABLE VICTIMS OF GERMAN ACTION

2650

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

AGREEMENT ON A PLAN FOR ALLOCATION OF A REPARATION SHARE TO NON-REPATRIABLE VICTIMS OF GERMAN ACTION.

Post, p. 3171.

In accordance with the provisions of Article 8 of the Final Act of the Paris Conference on Reparation, the Governments of the United States of America, France, the United Kingdom, Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia, in consultation with the Inter-Governmental Committee on Refugees, have worked out, in common agreement, the following plan to aid in the rehabilitation and resettlement of nonrepatriable victims of German action . In working out this plan the signatory Powers have been guided by the intent of Article 8 , and the procedures outlined below are based on its terms:

Distribution of

funds.

In recognition of special and urgent circumstances, the sum of

$25,000,000 , having been made available by Allied governments as a

priority on the proceeds of the liquidation of German assets in neutral countries, is hereby placed at the disposal of the Inter-Governmental

Committee on Refugees or its successor organization for distribution

to appropriate public and private field organizations as soon as they

have submitted practicable programs in accordance with this Agreement.

Use of assets for rehabilitation, etc.
Post, p. 3173.

A. It is the unanimous and considered opinion of the Five Powers that in light of Paragraph H of Article 8 of the Paris Agreement on Reparation, the assets becoming available should be used not for the compensation of individual victims but for the rehabilitation and

resettlement of persons in eligible classes , and that expenditures on rehabilitation shall be considered as essential prepatory outlays to

resettlement . Since all available statistics indicate beyond any reasonable doubt that the overwhelming majority of eligible persons

under the provisions of Article 8 are Jewish, all assets except as specified in Paragraph B below are allocated for the rehabilitation and resettlement of eligible Jewish victims of Nazi action , among whom children should receive preferential assistance. Eligible Jewish victims of Nazi action are either refugees from Germany or Austria who do not desire to return to these countries , or German and Austrian Jews now resident in Germany or Austria who desire to emigrate, or Jews who were nationals or former nationals of previously occupied countries and who were victims of Nazi concentration camps or

concentration camps established by regimes under Nazi influence. B. The sum of $ 2,500,000 , amounting to ten percent, arising out of
the $25,000,000 priority on the proceeds of German assets in neutral countries, ten percent of the proceeds of the "non-monetary gold" , and five percent of the "heirless funds " shall be administered by the Inter-Governmental Committee on Refugees or its successor organization through appropriate public and private organizations for the

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- REPARATION-JUNE 14, 1946

2651

rehabilitation and resettlement of the relatively small numbers of non-Jewish victims of Nazi action who are in need of resettlement.

Eligible non-Jewish victims of Nazi action are refugees from Germany and Austria who can demonstrate that they were persecuted by the

Nazis for religious, political, or racial reasons and who do not desire

to return, or German and Austrian nationals, similarly persecuted , who desire to emigrate.
C. The Director of the Inter-Governmental Committee on Refugees

fuAnvdasiflorapbriolgirtayms. of

or the Director General of the successor organization shall under the

mandate of this Agreement make funds available for programs sub-

mitted by the appropriate field organizations referred to in Paragraphs A and B above as soon as he has satisfied himself that the programs

are consistent with the foregoing . Only in exceptional circumstances

may the cost of resettlement programs exceed a maximum of $ 1,000

per adult and $2,500 per child under twelve years of age. The action of the Inter-Governmental Committee on Refugees or its successor organization shall be guided by the intent of Article 8 and by this

Post, p. 3171.

Agreement which is to place into operation as quickly as possible

practicable programs of rehabilitation and resettlement submitted by

the appropriate field organizations. Liquidation of des-
D. In addition to the $25,000,000 sum the Inter-Governmental ignated assets.

Committee on Refugees or its successor organization is hereby author-

ized to take title from the appropriate authorities to all "non-

monetary gold" found by the Allies in Germany and to take such

steps as may be needed to liquidate these assets as promptly as

possible, due consideration being given to secure the highest possible

realizable value. As these assets are liquidated, the funds shall be

distributed in accordance with Paragraphs A and B above. E. Furthermore, pursuant to Paragraphs C and E of Article 8, in
the interest of justice, the French Government on behalf of the Five Governments concluding this Agreement, are making representations to the neutral Powers to make available all assets of victims of Nazi action who died without heirs. The Governments of the United

"hAeivraleislsafbunidlsi."ty of Post, pp. 3172, 3173.

States of America, the United Kingdom, Czechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia are associating themselves with the French Government in making such representations to the neutral Powers. The conclusion that ninety-five percent of the "heirless funds " thus made available should be allocated for the rehabilitation and resettlement of Jewish

victims takes cognizance of the fact that these funds are overwhelmingly Jewish in origin, and the five percent made available for nonJewish victims is based upon a liberal presumption of "heirless " funds" non Jewish in origin. The "heirless funds" to be used for the rehabilitation and resettlement of Jewish victims of Nazi action

should be made available to appropriate field organizations . The "heirless funds" to be used for the rehabilitation and resettlement of non-Jewish victims of Nazi action should be made available to the

Inter-Governmental Committee on Refugees or its successor organi-

zation for distribution to appropriate public and private field organizations. In making these joint representations, the signatories are

2652

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

requesting the neutral countries to take all necessary action to facilitate the identification, collection, and distribution of these assets

which have arisen out of a unique condition in international law and

morality . If further representations are indicated the governments

of the United States of America, France, and the United Kingdom

Retention and transfer of currency.

will pursue the matter on behalf of the Signatory Powers. F. To insure that all funds made available shall inure to the greatest
possible benefit of the victims whom it is desired to assist, all funds

shall be retained in the currency from which they arise and shall be

transferred therefrom only upon the instructions of the organization to which the Inter-Governmental Committee on Refugees or its

successor organization has allocated the funds for expenditure.

Letter of Instruc-

tion to Director.

G. The Director of the Inter-Governmental Committee on Refugees

shall carry out his responsibilities to the Five Governments in respect

of this Agreement in accordance with the terms of the Letter of

Instruction which is being transmitted to him by the French Gov-

ernment on behalf of the Governments concluding this Agreement .

Authentic texts.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned have signed the present Agreement.
Done in Paris on the 14th of June, 1946 , in the English and French Languages, the two texts being equally authentic, in a single original, which shall be deposited in the Archives of the Government of the French Republic, certified copies thereof being furnished by that Government to the signatories of this present Agreement .

Delegate of the United States of America,
ELI GINZBERG .

Delegate of Czechoslovakia, J. V. KLVANA.

Delegate of France, PHILIPPE PERIER

Delegate of Yugoslavia, M. D. JAKSIC.

Delegate of the United Kingdom of Great Britain & Northern Ireland,
DOUGLAS MACKILLOP.
POUR COPIE CERTIFIÉE CONFORME : Le Ministre Plénipotentiaire Chef du Service du Protocole. JACQUES DUMAINE.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-REPARATION-JUNE 14, 1946

2653

ANNEX TO THE AGREEMENT ON A PLAN FOR ALLOCATION OF A REPARATION SHARE TO NON-REPATRIABLE VICTIMS OF GERMAN ACTION

DECLARATION BY THE CZECHOSLOVAK AND YUGOSLAV DELEGATES

In accepting the phrasing of Paragraph E of the Agreement, the Czechoslovak and Yugoslav Delegates have declared that the Republic of Czechoslovakia and the Republic of Yugoslavia have not by

so accepting, given up their claim to the forthcoming inheritances mentioned therein which, according to the provisions of international

law, belong to their respective States.

PARIS, 14th June, 1946.

The Czechoslovak Delegate:

The Yugoslav Delegate:

J. V. KLVANA

M. D. JAKSIC

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- REPARATION-JUNE 14, 1946

2655

ACCORD
SUR UN PLAN POUR L'ALLOCATION D'UNE PART DE REPARATIONS AUX VICTIMES NON RAPATRIABLES DE L'ACTION ALLEMANDE

2656

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ACCORD SUR UN PLAN POUR L'ALLOCATION D'UNE PART DE REPARATIONS AUX VICTIMES NON-RAPATRIABLES DE L'ACTION ALLEMANDE
Conformément aux dispositions de l'Article 8 de l'Acte Final de la Conférence de Paris sur les Réparations, les Gouvernements des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, de la France, du Royaume-Uni , de la Tchécoslovaquie et de la Yougoslavie, après avoir consulté le Comité intergouvernemental pour les Réfugiés, ont élaboré , d'un commun accord , les dispositions suivantes relatives à un programme tendant à assister et réinstaller les victimes non-rapatriables de l'action allemande.
En élaborant ce programme, les Puissances signataires se sont inspirées des intentions de l'Article 8 , et la procédure exposée cidessous est fondée sur les termes de ce dernier.
Tenant compte des conditions particulières et pressantes , la somme de $25.000.000 , rendue disponible par les Gouvernements alliés , par priorité sur le produit de la liquidation des avoirs allemands dans les pays neutres , est mise à la disposition du Comité inter-gouvernemental pour les Réfugiés , ou de l'organisme qui lui succédera, en vue de sa répartition parmi les oeuvres compétentes de caractère public ou privé, aussitôt qu'elles auront soumis des programmes praticables, conformément à cet Accord.
A.-Après décision unanime des cinq Puissances, et compte tenu du paragraphe 2 de l'Article 8 de l'Accord de Paris sur les Réparations , les avoirs qui auront été rendus disponibles devront servir, non pas à secourir des victimes individuelles , mais à assister et à réinstaller les personnes appartenant aux catégories prévues , et les dépenses d'assistance devront être considérées essentiellement comme une mise de fonds préparatoire à la réinstallation .
Etant donné que toutes les statistiques existantes indiquent d'une manière indubitable que l'immense majorité des ayants-droit visés par l'Article 8 sont Israélites , tous les avoirs, à l'exception de ceux qui sont stipulés au paragraphe B ci-dessous , sont alloués à l'assistance. et à la réinstallation des catégories prévues d'Israélites, victimes de l'action nazie , parmi lesquels les enfants recevront une assistance préférentielle .
Les catégories prévues d'Israélites victimes de l'action nazie sont , soit les réfugiés d'Allemagne ou d'Autriche qui ne veulent pas être rapatriés , soit les Israélites allemands ou autrichiens résidant actuellement en Allemagne ou en Autriche qui veulent émigrer, soit les Israélites ressortissants ou anciens ressortissants de pays ayant été occupés, et qui ont été victimes des camps de concentration nazis ou des camps de concentration établis par des régimes sous l'influence nazie.
B.-La somme de $ 2.500.000 , représentant 10 % de la somme prioritaire de $25.000.000 fournie par les avoirs allemands dans les pays

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- REPARATION-JUNE 14, 1946
neutres , les 10 % du produit de l'or non-monétaire et les 5% des "successions en déshérence" , seront gérés par le Comité intergouvernemental pour les Réfugiés, ou l'organisation qui lui succédera, par l'entremise d'oeuvres compétentes , de caractère public ou privé, pour l'assistance et la réinstallation des non-Israélites , relativement peu nombreux , victimes de l'action nazie , qui ont besoin d'être réinstallés.
Les ayants-droit non-Israélites , victimes de l'action nazie , sont les réfugiés d'Allemagne et d'Autriche qui peuvent prouver qu'ils ont été persécutés par les nazis pour des motifs religieux, politiques ou raciaux, et qui ne veulent pas être rapatriés , ou des ressortissants allemands et autrichiens , pareillement persécutés , qui désirent émigrer.
C.-Le Directeur du Comité inter-gouvernemental pour les Réfugiés , ou le Directeur Général de l'organisation qui lui succédera , libérera, en vertu du mandat qui découle du présent Accord , les fonds destinés à la mise en oeuvre de programmes soumis par les oeuvres compétentes dont il est fait mention aux paragraphes A et B ci-dessus , aussitôt qu'il se sera assuré que les programmes sont compatibles avec ce qui précède .
Ce n'est que dans des circonstances exceptionnelles que le coût du plan d'établissement pourra dépasser un maximum de $ 1.000 par personne adulte et de $2.500 par enfant de moins de 12 ans. Le
Comité inter-gouvernemental pour les Réfugiés , ou l'organisation qui lui succédera, devra s'inspirer, dans son action , du sens de l'Article 8 du présent Accord qui doit mettre en oeuvre le plus tôt possible les plans praticables d'assistance et de réinstallation soumis par les oeuvres compétentes.
D.-Outre la somme de $25.000.000 , le Comité inter-gouvernemental pour les Réfugiés, ou l'organisation qui lui succédera, est autorisé, par le présent Accord , à recevoir des autorités compétentes tout "l'or nonmonétaire" trouvé par les Alliés en Allemagne et à entreprendre telles démarches qui se révèleraient nécessaires en vue de liquider lesdits avoirs aussi rapidement que possible , étant entendu que les précautions nécessaires seront prises pour obtenir la valeur de réalisation la plus haute possible. Lorsque ces avoirs auront été liquidés , les fonds seront distribues, conformément aux paragraphes A et B ci-dessus .
E.-En outre, conformément aux paragraphes Cet E de l'Article 8 , et dans l'intérêt de la justice, le Gouvernement français fera, au nom des cinq Gouvernements qui ont conclu cet Accord, une démarche auprès des Puissances neutres, pour obtenir remise de tous les avoirs ayant appartenu à des victimes de l'action nazie mortes sans héritiers . Les Gouvernements des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, du Royaume-Uni , de Tchécoslovaquie et de Yougoslavie s'associeront au Gouvernement français, en faisant cette démarche auprès des Puissances neutres .
La décision de consacrer 95 % des "successions en déshérence" ainsi rendues disponibles à l'assistance et à la réinstallation de victimes israélites a été prise en raison du fait que l'immense majorité de ces fonds ont une origine israélite, et les 5% consacrés aux victimes nonisraélites l'ont été sur l'estimation libéralement faite de l'importance des "successions en déshérence" d'origine non-israélite.

2657

2658

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Les "successions en déshérence" employées à l'assistance et à la réinstallation des victimes israélites de l'action nazie seront mises à la disposition des oeuvres compétentes . Les "successions en déshérence " employées à l'assistance et à la réinstallation des victimes nonisraélites de l'action nazie seront mises à la disposition du Comité intergouvernemental pour les Réfugiés , ou de l'organisation qui lui succédera, à charge par ce dernier de les distribuer aux oeuvres publiques ou privées compétentes .
En faisant cette démarche commune, les signataires prient les pays neutres de faire toutes les démarches nécessaires en vue de faciliter l'identification , la collecte et la distribution de ces avoirs qui sont le résultat d'une situation unique dans la morale et le droit internationaux .
Si de nouvelles démarches se révèlent nécessaires , les Gouvernements des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, de France et du Royaume-Uni poursuivront l'action nécessaire au nom des Puissances signataires.
F.-En vue d'obtenir que les fonds rendus disponibles soient utilisés dans des conditions permettant d'assurer le plus d'avantages possibles aux victimes à assister, ces fonds demeureront comptabilisés dans la monnaie du pays où ils se trouvent . Ils seront ensuite transférés , seulement sur instructions de l'oeuvre à laquelle le Comité intergouvernemental pour les Réfugiés aura alloué lesdits fonds en vue de les dépenser.
G.-Le Directeur du Comité inter-gouvernemental pour les Réfugiés sèra responsable de l'exécution du présent Accord à l'égard des cinq Gouvernements , en conformité avec les termes de la lettre d'instructions qui lui sera transmise par le Gouvernement français au nom des Gouvernements signataires du présent Accord.
En foi de quoi , les soussignés ont signé le présent Accord.
Fait à Paris le 14 juin 1946, en langues anglaise et française, les deux textes faisant également foi , en un exemplaire unique qui sera conservé dans les archives du Gouvernement de la République française, lequel Gouvernement remettra copie conforme de ce texte à chacun des Gouvernements .

Le Délégué des Etats-Unis d'Amérique : ELI GINZBERG

Le Délégué de Tchécoslovaquie: J. V. KLVANA

Le Délégué de la France: PHILIPPE PERIER

Le Délégué de Yougoslavie: M. D. JAKSIC

Le Délégué du Royaume-Uni, de Grande-Bretagne et de l'Irlande du Nord:
DOUGLAS MACKILLOP.
POUR COPIE CERTIFIÉE CONFORME: Le Ministre Plénipotentiaire Chefdu Service du Protocole. JACQUES DUmaine

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-REPARATION- JUNE 14, 1946

2659

ANNEXE A L'ACCORD SUR UN PLAN POUR L'ALLOCATION D'UNE PART DE REPARATIONS AUX VICTIMES NON RAPATRIABLES DE L'ACTION ALLEMANDE
DÉCLARATION DES DÉLÉGUÉS TCHÉCOSLOVAQUE ET YOUGOSLAVE

En acceptant la formule du paragraphe E de l'Accord , les Délégués tchécoslovaque et yougoslave ont déclaré que la République de Tchécoslovaquie et la République de Yougoslavie n'ont pas renoncé, par cette acceptation , aux héritages éventuels visés appartenant, d'après les dispositions de droit international, à leurs Etats respectifs./.

PARIS, le 14 juin 1946

Le Délégué tchécoslovaque : J. V. KLVANA

Le Délégué yougoslave: M. D. JAKSIC

2660

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

June 9, 1945 [T. I. A. S. 1595]

Agreement between the United States of America and El Salvador respecting a cooperative educational program in El Salvador. Signed at San Salvador June 9, 1945; effective July 25, 1945.

The American Ambassador to the Salvadoran Ministerfor Foreign Affairs

No. 97

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
San Salvador, June 9, 1945.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to your Excellency's courteous note of June 4, 1945 , (A-842.D-885) in which Your Excellency was so good as to invite, in the name of the Government of El Salvador, Mr. Kenneth Holland , President of the Inter-American Educational

Foundation, Inc. , to visit El Salvador in order to study educational problems of the country in collaboration with the Ministerio de Cultura

Popular. Pursuant to your gracious invitation , Mr. Holland arrived in El
Salvador on June 8, 1945, and entered into discussions with the Ministro de Cultura Popular. As a result of these discussions , the Government of the United States of America, acting through the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , is prepared to assist the Government of El Salvador in carrying out a cooperative educational program in El Salvador, by contributing the sum of US$80,000 (EIGHTY THOUSAND U.S. DOLLARS) with the understanding that the Republic of El Sal-

vador will contribute $200,000 (TwO HUNDRED THOUSAND COLONES ) for the same program.
It is further my understanding that the details governing the carrying out of the cooperative educational program will be worked out in an agreement to be entered into between the appropriate officer of the Government of El Salvador and a representative of the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc.

I should appreciate receiving from Your Excellency confirmation that my understanding is satisfactory to the Government of El Salvador.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
JOHN F. SIMMONS American Ambassador His Excellency Dr. ARTURO ARGUELLO LOUCEL ,

Minister for Foreign Affairs, San Salvador.

61 STAT. ] EL SALVADOR-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-JUNE 9, 1945

The Salvadoran Ministerfor Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR, C. A.

SP. 665. A. 842.-D-956

PALACIO NACIONAL: San Salvador, Junio 9 de 1945.-

EXCELENCIA:

Tengo el honor de referirme a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia, No. 97 de esta misma fecha, la que inmediatamente hice transcribir

al Señor Ministro de Cultura Popular, quien tuvo la bondad de contestar lo siguiente :

"No. 9923. San Salvador, 9 de junio de 1945.-Señor Ministro: He recibido su atento oficio No. SP. 655 , de esta misma fecha , en el cual se digna transcribirme la nota del señor Embajador de los Estados Unidos de Norte América, referente al ofrecimiento del Gobierno Norteamericano de efectuar por medio del señor Presidente de la Fundación de Enseñanza Interamericana, señor Kenneth Holland, un programa educacional cooperativo en nuestro país .-Como resultado de las pláticas sostenidas por el suscrito con el señor Holland, muy atentamente manifiesto a usted que, este Despacho está de acuerdo en la realización del mencionado programa cooperativo , aportando por parte de nuestro Gobierno la cantidad de 200.000.00 , toda vez que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos ofrece aportar un total de $80.000.00 para el fin indicado, siendo entendido que los demás detalles relacionados con dicho programa educacional cooperativo serán determinados mediante acuerdo celebrado entre funcionarios de ambos países.-Aprovecho esta oportunidad para renovar al señor Ministro las protestas de mi consideración y estima muy distinguidas.DIOS , UNION, LIBERTAD.-R. CASTRO ."

La que tengo gusto en transcribir a Vuestra Excelencia para su conocimiento .
Aprovecho esta oportunidad para renovarle las seguridades de mi consideración más alta y distinguida.
A. ARGUELLO LOUCEL

Excelentísimo señor don JoHN F. SIMMONS,

Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los

Estados Unidos de America,

EHA.

Presente.-

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR, C.A.
SP.665. A. 842-D-956

NATIONAL PALACE , San Salvador, June 9, 1945.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's courteous note No. 97

of this date, which I immediately referred to the Minister of Popular

Culture, who was kind enough to reply as follows : 95347°-49-PT. III- 25

2661

2662

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

"No. 9923. San Salvador , June 9 , 1945.-Mr. Minister : I have received your official communication No. SP. 655 , of this date , in which you are good enough to transcribe the note of the Ambassador of the United States of America, concerning the offer of the American Government to conduct, through the President of the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Mr. Kenneth Holland, a cooperative educational program in our country.-As a result of the conversations held by the undersigned with Mr. Holland , I state most respectfully to you that this Office agrees to the carrying out of the said cooperative program , with the contribution by our Government of the sum of $200,000.00, in as much as the Government of the United States offers to contribute a total of $ 80,000.00 for the indicated purpose, it being understood that the other details relating to the said cooperative educational program will be settled through an agreement concluded between the officials of both countries . I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you, Mr. Minister, the assurances of my very distinguished consideration and esteem.-GOD, UNION, LIBERTY.-- R. CASTRO."

I take pleasure in transcribing the foregoing to Your Excellency for your information .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
A. ARGUELLO LOUCEL

His Excellency JOHN F. SIMMONS,

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary

EHA.

of the United States of America, Local.

Contract Signed by the Salvadoran Minister of Popular Culture and the President ofthe Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc.
The REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR (hereinafter called the " Republic") ; and the INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC. , a corporation of the Office of Inter-American Affairs and an agency of the Government of the United States of America (hereinafter called the "Foundation" ) , have decided to celebrate the following contract to undertake a Cooperative Educational Program to promote Inter-American understanding by bringing about a better interchange of Educators , educational ideas and methods between El Salvador and the United States, pursuant to Resolution 28 adopted by the First Conference of Ministers and Directors of Education of the American Republics held in Panama in September and October 1943 , and pursuant to Resolution 58 adopted by the Inter-American Conference on Problems of War and Peace, held at Mexico City in February and March 1945. [']
1 [Report of the Delegation of the United States of America to the Inter-American Conference on Problems of War and Peace, Mexico City, Mexico, February 21March 8, 1945, Department of State publication 2497, p. 217. ]

61 STAT. ] EL SALVADOR- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-JUNE 9, 1945

2663

1. The said Cooperative Educational Program may include :
a. Furnishing by the Foundation of a Field Staff of educational specialists requested by the Ministerio de Cultura Popular de la República de El Salvador for service in El Salvador in carrying out the said Cooperative Educational Program ;
b. Grants to permit Salvadorean educators to go to the United States for specialized training, to lecture, to teach and to interchange ideas and experience with United States educators ;
c. Exploration and survey in El Salvador of local educational needs and resources for carrying out training projects on the elementary, secondary and normal school levels.
d. Development, adaptation, and exchange of suitable teaching materials .
e. Local projects needed to implement the program in El Salvador .

The program does not contemplate the construction of buildings . 2. The Field Staff shall be under the direction of an official who shall Field staff.

have the title of Special Representative, Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , and who shall be the representative of the Foundation in connection with the program to be undertaken in accordance with

this Agreement. The Special Representative and other members of the Field Staff shall be acceptable to the Republic.

3. The said Cooperative Educational Program shall be carried out in El Salvador through the Ministerio de Cultura Popular de la República de El Salvador, with the technical advice and assistance of the Field Staff of the Foundation , as provided herein. It shall consist

Projects.

of individual Projects . The Projects shall consist of specific kinds of work and activity to be undertaken by the representatives of either or both Governments in the execution of this Agreement. The

Projects and the allocation of funds therefor and the procedures for

carrying out the same shall be mutually agreed upon in writing by the
Ministro de Cultura Popular of the Republic (hereinafter called the
"Ministro") and the Special Representative of the Foundation. Salaries and ex-
4. The Foundation shall determine and pay the salaries and other penses. expenses of the members of the Field Staff in an amount not to exceed
Special bank 80Fifty Thousand Dollars ($ 50,000) , U.S. currency and shall in addi- count. tion pay into a special bank account in the bank of the Republic's
choice, to be entitled "Cooperative Education Program-InterAmerican Educational Foundation , Inc. ", from time to time on the basis of need as determined by the Special Representative of the
Foundation and the Ministro , the sum or sums which will aggregate

Thirty Thousand Dollars ($30,000) , U. S. currency. The total contribution of the Foundation for the said program accordingly, shall be

Eighty Thousand Dollars , U. S. currency. The Republic shall pay into the said special bank account from time to time on the basis of need, as determined by the Ministro and the Special Representative of the Foundation, the sum or sums which will aggregate Two Hundred Thousand Colones ($200,000) Salvadorean currency. The

2664

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

said contribution of Two Hundred Thousand Colones ($200,000 ) shall be in addition to the Republic's regular budget for education. Within

sixty days after the becoming effective of this Agreement, under the laws of El Salvador, the Foundation shall pay into the said special bank account the sum of Ten Thousand Dollars ($ 10,000) , U. S. currency, and the Republic shall pay into the said special bank ac-

Disbursements.

count the sum of Sixty-Five Thousand Colones (C65,000) , Salvadorean currency, as the first installment from each Government for the
said Cooperative Educational Program. The funds in the said special bank account shall be disbursed by the Foundation and devoted

exclusively to the Projects of the said Cooperative Educational Program as provided herein, and all Contracts necessary to carry out the terms of the Projects mutually agreed to by the representatives of the two Governments shall be in the name of the Foundation . If the

Republic desires and so notifies the Foundation in writing, checks for the expenditure of funds in the said special bank account shall be countersigned by a representative of the Republic. The books and

records of the Foundation relating to the expenditures for the said

Reports.

Cooperative Educational Program shall be open at all times for inspection by representatives of the Republic, and the Foundation shall

render financial reports to the Republic at such times as may be agreed upon between the Ministro and the Special Representative of the Foundation.

Additional ance by Republiacs.sist

5. The Republic, in addition to its cash contribution as provided herein, shall (a) appoint specialists to collaborate with the Field Staff of the Foundation and pay their compensation ; (b) make available office space, office equipment , furnishings, transportation and such other of its facilities , material , equipment and supplies as it may con-

veniently provide for the said program, and (c) lend the general

assistance thereto of the other Departments of the Republic.

Withholding of

funds from account.

6. In view of the fact that purchases of some materials and supplies

must necessarily be made in the United States of America , the Ministro

and the Special Representative of the Foundation may agree to with-

hold from the payments to be made by the Foundation into the said special bank account as provided herein, an amount or amounts deemed to be necessary to pay for such purchases of materials and

supplies in the United States of America . Any funds so withheld by the Foundation for such purchases and not obligated therefor shall be paid into the said special bank account at any time upon the mutual

agreement of the Ministro and the Special Representative of the Foundation .

Availability of funds.

7. The funds paid and payable into the said special bank account

by the parties hereto shall continue to be available for the said Co-

operative Educational Program during the existence of this Agreement.

Interest, if any, on any balances of funds in the said special bank

account shall be used for the said Cooperative Educational Program.

oblDiigsaptoesditfiuonndso. f un- The Ministro and the Special Representative of the Foundation shall determine by mutual agreement the disposition of any unobligated

funds remaining in the said special bank account upon the termination

of this Agreement . In the event that, upon the expiration of each

61 STAT. ] EL SALVADOR- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION--JUNE 9, 1945

2665

twelve-month period of this Agreement, the Foundation deems that

the said funds which it has set aside for the payment of salaries and

other direct expenses of members of the Field Staff, as provided in

Paragraph 4 hereof, will be more than is needed for that purpose, the

Foundation, at the end of each such twelve-month period, shall advise

the Republic of the additional sum which has become available for

Projects and such additional sum shall be paid into the said special

bank account or otherwise disposed of by mutual agreement between

the Ministro and the Special Representative of the Foundation . At

least six months prior to the termination of this Agreement the Founda-

tion shall similarly notify the Republic as to what , if any, of such funds

will be available for Projects of the said Cooperative Educational

Program during the remainder of the program, and the disposition of any such funds so made available shall be determined by mutual

agreement between the Ministro and the Special Representative of the Foundation.
8. The Republic shall accept and recognize the Foundation as an Agency of the Government of the United States of America, and

Immunity of Foundation from taxes, etc.

accordingly, the Foundation shall be exempt and immune from, among

other things , any and all taxes, fees , charges , imposts, and customs

duties , whether national , departamental , provincial or municipal , and

from all requirements for licenses .

The Foundation and its personnel

Rights and privi leges.

shall also enjoy all the rights and privileges which are enjoyed by

departments and officials of the Republic . Such rights and privileges

shall include , for example, postal , telegraph , and telephone franks and

the right to special rates allowed to the Departments of the Republic

by domestic companies of maritime, railroad , and air travel, telegraph,

telephone, etc.

The personnel of the Foundation who are citizens of

Exemption of U. 8. personnel from Salva-

the United States of America shall be exempt from all Salvadorean deotcr.ean income taxes,

income taxes and social security taxes with respect to income on which

they are obliged to pay income or social security taxes to the Govern-

ment of the United States of America, and from property taxes on

personal property intended for their own use. Said employees shall

also be exempt from customs duties on their personal effects and on

supplies and equipment imported or exported for their personal use. 9. All materials , equipment, and supplies purchased with funds from
the said bank account shall become the property of the Republic

Ownership ofequipment, etc.

immediately upon such purchase but shall be used only for the purposes

of the said Cooperative Educational Program . 10. Any right, power, or duty conferred by this Agreement upon
either the Ministro or the Special Representative of the Foundation

Delegationof power, etc.

may be delegated by the recipient thereof to representatives , provided

that such representatives are satisfactory to both officials . 11. This Agreement may be amended from time to time if deemed

Amendments.

advisable by the parties hereto , such amendments to be in writing and signed by representatives of the Republic and the Foundation .
12. The Executive Power of the Republic will take the necessary

Legislation, etc.

steps to obtain the legislation , decrees , orders or resolutions necessary
to carry out the terms of this Agreement . Duration of agree-
13. This Agreement shall be in force for approximately three years ment

2666

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

from the date of its becoming effective under the laws of El Salvador . [ ']

Its termination shall be effected after the expiration of the said period

of three years , by either party hereto by the giving of at least 60 days written notice in advance to the other.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agree-

ment to be executed by their duly authorized representatives , in

English and in Spanish , in San Salvador, El Salvador , C.A. , this

ninth day of June, 1945.

REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR

By R. CASTRO

Ministro de Cultura Popular

INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC.
By KENNETH HOLLAND President

LA REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR (en adelante llamada "La República") y el INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC.; un organismo de la Oficina de Asuntos Inter-Americanos y agencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América (en adelante llamada la " Fundación" ) , han decidido celebrar el siguiente convenio , con el fin de poner en práctica un Programa Cooperativo Educacional para promover el mejor entendimiento Inter-Americano, mediante el intercambio de educadores e ideas y métodos entre El Salvador y los Estados Unidos, de conformidad con la Resolución 28 de la Primera Conferencia de Ministros y Directores de Educación de las Repúblicas Americanas, adoptada en Panamá en Septiembre y Octubre de 1943 , y de conformidad con la Resolución 58 de la Conferencia InterAmericana sobre Problemas de Guerra y Paz adoptados en la Ciudad de México en Febrero y Marzo de 1945 .
1. El mencionado Programa Cooperativo Educacional comprenderá :
a. Envío por parte de la Fundación y a requerimiento del Ministerio de Cultura Popular de la República de El Salvador, de un cuerpo de educadores especializados que prestarán sus servicios en El Salvador, para llevar adelante el dicho Programa Cooperativo Educacional ;
b. Facilidades para que educadores Salvadoreños vayan a los Estados Unidos con el objeto de seguir cursos de especialización, contribuyendo , por su parte, por medio de conferencias y otros procedimientos adecuados al intercambio de ideas y experiencias con los educadores de los Estados Unidos ;
c. Estudio, en la República de El Salvador de las necesidades y recursos locales con vistas a establecer una serie de proyectos educacionales en los campos de la enseñanza primaria,
¹ [Effective July 25, 1945, the date of publication in the Diario Oficial (vol. 139, no. 163, p. 2551 ) of the decree of ratification (no. 145) by the National Assembly of El Salvador. ]

61 STAT. ] EL SALVADOR-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-JUNE 9, 1945
secundaria y el entrenamiento de maestros y profesores. d. Desarrollo , adaptación e intercambio de materiales . e. Adopción de planes de trabajo locales para el desarrollo del
Programa en El Salvador. Este programa no comprende la construcción de edificios .
2. El Cuerpo de educadores especializados a que se refiere el inciso a. ) del artículo anterior estará bajo la dirección de un funcionario con el cargo de Representante Especial de la Inter-American Educational
Foundation, Inc. , a quién se tendrá como Delegado de la Fundación para todo lo relacionado con el Programa que será puesto en práctica de acuerdo con este convenio. La designación de Representante Especial así como la de los demás técnicos de su oficina debe recibir previamente, la aceptación del Gobierno de la República.
3. El desarrollo del Programa Cooperativo de que se trata, se llevará a cabo por medio del Ministerio de Cultura Popular de la República de El Salvador, con la cooperación técnica y asistencia del Cuerpo de Educadores de la Fundación , del que ya se ha hecho mérito, y consistirá en planos de trabajos locales sobre determinadas actividades que estarán encomendadas a los Representantes de uno o de los dos países entre los que se celebre este Convenio. Tales planes de trabajo, así como el empleo de los fondos necesarios y los procedimientos para llevarlos a cabo, habrán de ser previamente aprobados mediante un documento que, de mutuo acuerdo , suscribirán el Ministro de Cultura Popular de la República (en adelante llamado "el Ministro " ) , y el Representante Especial de la Fundación .
4. La Fundación determinará y pagará los sueldos y los otros gastos de los miembros del Cuerpo de Educadores Especializados , para lo que habrá de disponer de una suma que no exceda de $ 50.000 (Cincuenta Mil Dólares ) moneda Americana ; y además depositar en una cuenta bancaria especial en un Banco que eligirá la República , que se dominará "Programa Educacional Cooperativo - Inter-American Educational Foundation Inc.", de tiempo en tiempo a medida que se presenten las necesidades del caso según lo determine el Representante Especial de la Fundación y el Ministro, la suma o sumas hasta completar la cantidad de $30.000 (Treinta Mil Dólares) moneda Americana. El aporte total de los Estados Unidos a este programa será, de este modo , de $80.000 (Ochenta Mil Dólares ) moneda Americana. La República pagará a dicha cuenta bancaria especial, de tiempo en tiempo que se presenten las necesidades del caso según lo determine el Representante Especial de la Fundación y el Ministro, la suma o sumas hasta completar la cantidad de 200.000 (Doscientos Mil Colones) moneda de El Salvador. Dicha contribución de Doscientos Mil Colones ($200.000 ) será además del presupuesto ordinario de la República para Educación . Dentro de los 60 días subsiguientes que este Convenio entre en vigor bajo las leyes de El Salvador la Fundación depositará a dicha cuenta bancaria especial la suma de $ 10.000 (Diez Mil Dólares) moneda Americana, y la República depositará en dicha cuenta bancaria especial la suma de $65.000 (Sesenta y Cinco Mil Colones) moneda de El Salvador, como primer abono de cada uno de

2667

2668

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
los Gobiernos para dicho Programa Cooperativo Educacional. Las sumas pagaderas de dicha cuenta bancaria especial serán desembolsados por la Fundación y dedicados exclusivamente al desarrollo de dicho Programa Cooperativo Educacional tal como queda establecido por este Convenio ; y todos los contratos necesarios para llevar adelante los puntos contenidos en los planes de trabajo aceptados de mútuo acuerdo por los Representantes de los dos Gobiernos , serán celebrados en nombre de la Fundación . Si la República lo desea y así lo notifique a la Fundación por escrito , los cheques para la inversión de los fondos de la mencionada cuenta especial irán firmados por un Representante Especial de la República. Los libros y Registros de la Fundación relacionados con los gastos de dicho Programa Cooperativo Educacional, estarán siempre disponibles para su inspección por parte de los Representantes de la República, y la Fundación rendirá cuentas relativas al manejo de fondos a la República en los periódicos fijos que acuerden el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación.
5. La República además de su contribución monetaria aquí estipulada deberá: a. ) Designar y pagar por sus servicios a especialistas que colaboren con el Cuerpo de Educadores especializados de la Fundación ; b .) Proporcionará local para la Oficina, equipo de oficina, mobiliario , y cualquier otra facilidad para la misma , material, equipo e implementos , y transportes que convenientemente pueda suplir para dicho programa ; y c . ) Prestará la cooperación que tal Oficina pueda necesitar de otras dependencias de la República.
6. En vista de que compras de algunos materiales e implementos tendrán necesariamente que hacerse en los Estados Unidos de Norte América, el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación, podrán disponer que se reserven, de los abonos que habría de hacer la Fundación a la cuenta especial de la que se habla más arriba, una suma o sumas consideradas necesarias para el pago de tales compras de materiales e implementos en los Estados Unidos de América. Los fondos así retenidos por la Fundación para las compras de que se trata, y que aún no hayan sido invertidos, serán pagados a la mencionada cuenta especial en cualquier tiempo mediante mutuo acuerdo entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación.
7. Los fondos abonados y por abonarse por las partes interesadas a la cuenta especial continuarán en disponibilidad para el desarrollo del Programa Cooperativo Educacional durante la duración de este Convenio. Los intereses, si los hubiera sobre cualquiera de los fondos de la cuenta especial, serán utilizados para el desarrollo del Programa Cooperativo Educacional. El Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación determinarán, de mutuo acuerdo, el destino que hayan de darse a los fondos de la cuenta especial no invertidos a la terminación de este Convenio . En el caso de que , a la expiración de cada período de doce meses de los que comprende este Convenio, la Fundación considere que las sumas que se han reservado para el pago de sueldos y otros gastos directos de los miembros del Cuerpo de Educadores especializados, conforme el párrafo 4 de este Convenio, excede de lo que se necesita para tal objeto , la misma Fundación , al fin de cada período de doce meses, dará a conocer a la República el

61 STAT.] EL SALVADOR-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION--JUNE 9, 1945
dato relativo a la suma adicional que , por tal concepto , quede en disponibilidad para sufragar los planes de trabajo ; y dicha suma adicional será entonces abonada a la cuenta especial o destinada en otra forma por mutuo acuerdo entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación . Por lo menos seis meses antes de la terminación de
este Convenio , la Fundación notificará igualmente a la República , acerca de los fondos disponibles , si los hubiere , para los planes de trabajo del Programa Cooperativo Educacional, durante el período que falte para la terminación del Convenio ; y el destino que haya de darse a tales fondos será determinado de mutuo acuerdo entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación .
8. La República aceptará y reconocerá a la Fundación como una agencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, y así mismo , la Fundación estará exenta e inmune de así como otras cosas , cualquier contribución, impuesto , derecho , cargo , tributo y gasto de aduana, ya sean nacionales , departamentales , provinciales o municipales y de todo requerimiento para licencias . La Fundación y su personal también gozarán de los derechos y privilegios de que disfrutan las diversas divisiones oficiales de la República. Tales derechos y privilegios incluirán, entre otras cosas, franquicia postal, telegráfica y telefónica ; el derecho a ciertas tarifas especiales concedidas a las oficinas de la República por compañías domésticas de servicio marítimo, ferrocarrilero , aéreo , telegráfico , telefónico , etc. El personal de la Fundación, de nacionalidad Norteamericana , encargado de llevar a cabo el mencionado programa cooperativo de educación será exento del pago de todo impuesto sobre la renta y descuentos destinados al seguro social sobre rentas sujetas a impuestos de carácter semejante al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos . Tales funcionarios serán así mismo exentos del pago de derechos aduaneros u otros impuestos sobre sus efectos personales y sobre equipos y suministros importados o exportados para su propio uso .
9. Todo material, equipo u utensilios comprados con dinero de la mencionada cuenta especial del banco será propiedad de la República inmediatamente pero será utilizado únicamente para los fines del Programa Cooperativo Educacional.
10. Todo derecho , poder o responsabilidad que por este Convenio adquieran así el Ministro como el Representante Especial de la Fundación, puede ser delegado por cada uno de ellos en sus representantes, siempre que tales representantes sean juzgados idoneos por las otras de las partes.
11. Este contrato puede ser reformado de tiempo, en tiempo, si las partes interesadas consideran necesaria tal reforma, la cual se hará constar por escrito y será autorizada con la firma de los representantes de la República y de la Fundación.
12. El Poder Ejecutivo de la República , tomará las medidas necesarias para que sean adoptadas las leyes, decretos , órdenes o resoluciones necesarias para llevar a la práctica los términos de este Convenio .
13. Este Convenio estará en vigor durante un período aproximadamente de tres años a contar de la fecha en que entra en vigor bajo las

2669

2670

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
leyes de El Salvador. Su terminación será efectuada después de la expiración de dicho período de 3 años por cualquiera de las partes dando un período por lo menos de 60 días por escrito y por adelantado a la otra parte.
EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes contratantes suscriben este Convenio por medio de sus representantes autorizados en los idiomas inglés y español en la ciudad de San Salvador, República de El Salvador , C. A. en este noveno día de Junio de 1945 .
REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR. por R. CASTRO Ministro de Cultura Popular.
INTERAMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC. por KENNETH HOLLAND Presidente.

61 STAT. ]

June 6, 1946 FINLAND- DOUBLE TAXATION-
Jan. 7, 1947

2671

Agreement between the United States of America and Finland respecting relieffrom double taxation on shipping profits. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington June 6, 1946, and January 7, 1947; effective November 19, 1943.

June 6, 1946, and January 7, 1947
[T. I. A. S. 1596]

The Finnish Minister to the Secretary of State

LEGATION OF FINLAND WASHINGTON, D. C.
4962

JUNE 6, 1946

EXCELLENCY, I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Government
of Finland is desirous of entering into an agreement with the Government of the United States of America relating to reciprocal exemption from double taxation on shipping profits.
With a view to obtaining from the appropriate authorities of the Government of the United States of America a decision that Finland meets the requirements, with respect to reciprocal exemption, of the applicable United States revenue laws, and consequently that the income of Finnish nationals and corporations which consists exclusively of earnings derived from the operation of ships documented under the laws of Finland are exempted from taxation by the United States, I furnish the following information, under the instructions from my Government, with respect to the provisions of Finnish law under which, on the basis of reciprocity, shipping profits of United States nationals and corporations are accorded exemption from Finnish income tax :

"The Government is empowered to allow exceptions on the basis of reciprocity from the provisions of this law with regard to the obligatory payment of tax on income derived from abroad and on
property located there and also as regards the liability to taxation of a foreign individual as well as of a foreign state, corporation, institution and foundation." (Section 6 of "Law Regarding Tax on
Income and Property", enacted November 19, 1943, No. 888 ) .
The Government of Finland would appreciate, therefore, receiving assurances from the Government of the United States of America with respect to the granting of the tax exemption, as requested above, on a basis of reciprocity. The Government of Finland will consider an agreement to this effect between the two Governments as being concluded and in force beginning with the date specified in Your Excellency's reply note giving such assurances. The Government of Finland will understand that such agreement may be terminated at any time by a six months' notice in writing given by either Government to the other Government.

2672

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
K. T. JUTILA. His Excellency
The Honorable JAMES F. BYRNES The Secretary of State The Department of State Washington

The Secretary of State to the Finnish Minister

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

January 7 1947

SIR :

I have the honor to refer to your note dated June 6, 1946, relating to the desire of the Government of Finland to enter into an agreement

with the Government of the United States of America relating to

reciprocal exemption from double taxation on shipping profits. A copy of your note was sent to the Secretary of the Treasury with
a view to obtaining an expression of the views of the Treasury Department with respect to this matter. A letter dated October 30, 1946

has been received from the Treasury Department in which, after references to the Legation's note and to the Finnish income tax law cited in that note, and to section 3 of the Finnish Law of December 5, 1924

on the same subject, it is pointed out that the corresponding provisions

of United States income tax law provide in the case of a nonresident

alien or foreign corporation for exemption of earnings derived from

the operation of ships documented under the laws of a foreign country

which grants an equivalent exemption to citizens of the United States

53 Stat. 76, 78.
26 U. S. C. §§ 212 (b), 231 (d).

of America and to corporations organized in the United States of America. ( Section 212 (b) and section 231 ( d ) , Internal Revenue Code. )

The Treasury Department's letter contains the following statement :

"It is the view of this Department that from the date specified in your reply note to the Finnish Legation , Finland will satisfy the equivalent exemption provisions of section 212 ( b ) and 231 ( d ) of the Internal Revenue Code, and hence that the Government of the United States may give to the Government of Finland assurances that the income of Finnish nationals and Finnish corporations which consists exclusively of earnings derived from the operation of ships documented under the laws of Finland will be exempt from United States income tax from such specified date."

It is, therefore, the view of the Government of the United States of America that Finland meets the requirements, with respect to reciprocal exemption, of the applicable United States revenue laws, and consequently that the income of Finnish nationals and corporations

61 STAT. ]

FINLAND- DOUBLE TAXATION- June 6, 1946 Jan. 7, 1947

which consists exclusively of earnings derived from the operation of ships documented under the laws of Finland are exempted from taxation by the United States of America.
The Government of the United States of America considers that

your note above-mentioned and this reply note constitute an agreement between the two Governments with respect to this matter, it being understood that this agreement, and the exemption from United States taxes to which it relates, shall be deemed to be effective beginning November 19, 1943, the date of the Finnish law cited in your note. It is understood , further, that this agreement may be terminated at any time by a six months' notice in writing given by either Government to the other Government.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

The Honorable Dr. K. T. JUTILA, Minister of Finland.

For the Secretary of State : WILLARD L. THORP

2673 Effective date. Termination.

2674

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

September30, 1946 (T. I. A. 8. 1599]

Agreement between the United States of America and Haiti respecting
Haitian finances, amending the agreement of September 13, 1941. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Port-au-Prince September 30, 1946; effective October 1 , 1946.

The American Ambassador to the Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs

No. 10

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Port-au-Prince, Haiti, September 30, 1946.

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to refer to my Note dated September 23 , 1946 ['] and to Your Excellency's reply dated September 26 , 1946 [ ] regarding a proposed exchange of notes with your Government in order to amend

55 Stat. 1350.

paragraphs one and two of Article III of the Executive Agreement of September 13, 1941 between Haiti and the United States. The

proposed amendment would provide for four voting members of the Board of Directors of the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti-

two citizens of Haiti and two citizens of the United States -in place of the present six voting members consisting of three Haitians and

three Americans . In addition, my Government agrees to the insertion

of the following words immediately after the penultimate sentence,

first paragraph of Article III of the Executive Agreement :

Continuation of terms.

"Provided, however, that the terms commencing October 1 , 1946 shall continue until September 30 , 1947 only."

Reorganization of Bank .

The following is the full text of Article III as amended :
"The National Bank of the Republic of Haiti shall be reorganized with a Board of Directors consisting of an Honorary President and four voting members . The Haitian Minister of Finance, or in his absence, the Acting Minister of Finance, shall be ex officio the Honorary President. Two of the voting members are always to be citizens of the Republic of Haiti . The other two voting members are always to be citizens of the United States of America. Decisions of the Board of Directors shall require a majority vote of the voting members of the Board. The President of the Republic of Haiti shall appoint the Haitian members of the Board of Directors ; the citizens of the United States of America who are members of the Board shall be chosen by mutual agreement of the two Governments . All of the voting members of the Board shall hold office for a period of five years and shall not be removed except for cause. Provided , however, that the terms commencing October 1 , 1946 shall continue until September 30, 1947 only. Vacancies on the Board of Directors shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.

1 [Not printed.]

61 STAT. ]

HAITI-FINANCES- SEPT. 30, 1946

"There shall be two co- Presidents of the Board of Directors of the Bank. One of these, the Haitian Minister of Finance, shall act as Honorary President, as indicated above, and shall preside over the meetings of the Board of Directors, and may be one of the two Haitian voting members. The other co-President shall be one of the two citizens of the United States of America. It shall be his duty to represent the holders of the bonds of 1922 and 1923 and to coordinate and direct the functions and activities of the two Vice
Presidents, who shall be elected by the Board of Directors of the Bank, and who may be members of the Board . One of the Vice Presidents shall be charged with supervising and carrying out the commercial operations of the Bank, and the other shall be charged with supervising and carrying out the fiscal functions of the Bank, under the immediate direction of the President who shall be responsible for such work.
"Any voting member of the Board of Directors of the Bank who is unable to attend a meeting of the Board may give a proxy to any other member of the Board of Directors.
"The Board of Directors shall exercise with respect to the fiscal functions of the Bank the powers hereinafter set forth. The Fiscal functions of the Bank shall be undertaken by a Fiscal Department to be operated in accordance with the regulations issued by the Board of Directors pursuant to such powers.
"The Board of Directors shall continue to exercise with respect to all other functions of the Bank the powers set forth in the charter and by-laws of the Bank."
I await Your Excellency's Note in reply confirming the amendments to the text of Article III as set forth above and containing the full text in the French language of the Article as amended.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration .
HAROLD H. TITTMANN His Excellency
Dr. JEAN PRICE-MARS,
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Port-au-Prince.

The Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
SECRÉTAIRERIE D'ETAT DES
RELATIONS EXTÉRIEURES

No. DEC/A-3: 869

PORT-AU-PRINCE, le 30 Septembre 1946

MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR,
J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception de la note No. 10, datée du 30 Septembre en cours, par laquelle Votre Excellence me fait part de l'acceptation par Son Gouvernement des modifications de l'Art . III de l'Accord Exécutif du 13 Septembre 1941 , envisagées dans la note

2675

3

2676

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
du 23 Septembre de Votre Excellence et la mienne du 26 Septembre. En réponse , j'ai l'honneur de confirmer également l'acceptation par
mon Gouvernement des dites modifications qui portent sur le nombre des membres du Conseil d'Administration de la Banque Nationale de la République d'Haiti et sur la durée de leur mandat.
Conséquemment, le texte de l'Article III , tel qu'il est amendé, devient le suivant:
La Banque Nationale de la République d'Haiti sera réorganisée avec un Conseil d'Administration composé d'un Président honoraire et de quatre membres votants. Le Secrétaire d'Etat des Finances de la République d'Haiti ou , en son absence, le Secrétaire d'Etat des Finances par interim, sera d'office Président honoraire . Deux des membres votants devront toujours être des citoyens de la République d'Haiti . Les deux autres membres votants seront toujours des citoyens des Etats-Unis d'Amérique. Les décisions du Conseil d'Administration seront prises à la majorité des voix des membres votants du Conseil. Le Président de la République d'Haiti nommera les membres haitiens du Conseil d'Administration ; les citoyens des Etats-Unis d'Amérique qui feront partie du Conseil d'Administration seront choisis par accord mutuel entre les deux Gouvernements . Tous les membres votants du Conseil resteront en fonctions pendant cinq ans et ne pourront être révoqués que pour cause valable. Toutefois , les mandats commençant le 1er. Octobre 1946 expireront le 30 Septembre 1947. Les vacances survenues dans le Conseil d'Administration seront comblées de la même manière que lorsqu'il s'agira des nominations originaires.
Le Conseil d'Administration aura deux Co-Présidents l'un deux, le Secrétaire d'Etat des Finances de la République d'Haiti, exercera la fonction de Président honoraire, comme il est indiqué ci-dessus ; il présidera toutes les réunions du Conseil d'Administration et pourra être l'un des deux membres votants haitiens . L'autre Co-Président sera l'un des deux citoyens des Etats-Unis d'Amérique ; ses fonctions consisteront à représenter les porteurs des titres 1922 et 1923, à coordonner et à diriger les fonctions et les activités des deux VicePrésidents qui seront élus par le Conseil d'Administration de la Banque et qui pourront être des membres du Conseil. L'un de ces Vice-Présidents sera chargé de superviser et d'exécuter les opérations commerciales de la Banque ; l'autre sera chargé de superviser et d'exercer les fonctions fiscales de la Banque , le tout sous la direction immédiate du Président qui sera responsable de la bonne marche de ces Services.
Tout membre votant du Conseil d'Administration de la Banque , empêché d'assister à une réunion du Conseil, peut donner procuration à un autre membre du Conseil pour le représenter.
Le Conseil d'Administration exercera, en ce qui concerne les fonctions fiscales de la Banque, les pouvoirs mentionnés ci-après . Les fonctions fiscales de la Banque seront exercées par un Département Fiscal qui remplira ses attributions conformément aux règlements émis par le Conseil d'Administration , en vertu des pouvoirs ci-après prévus .

61 STAT. ]

HAITI-FINANCES- SEPT. 30, 1946

En ce qui concerne les autres fonctions de la Banque, le Conseil d'Administration exercera les pouvoirs prévus dans l'Acte Constitutif et les Statuts de la Banque.
Veuillez agréer, Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, les assurances de ma très haute considération.
DR. PRICE-MARS Son Excellence
Monsieur HAROLD H. TITTMANN , Ambassadeur Extraordinaire & Plénipotentiaire des Etats- Unis d'Amérique Port-au-Prince.

Translation

SECRETARY OF STATE FOR
FOREIGN AFFAIRS

No. DEC/A-3 :869

PORT-AU-PRINCE, September 30, 1946

MR. AMBASSADOR:

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of note No. 10 dated

September 30, 1946, in which Your Excellency informs me of the acceptance by your Government of the amendments of Article III

of the Executive Agreement of September 13, 1941 , envisaged in Your Excellency's note of September 23 and mine of September 26.
In reply, I have the honor to confirm also the acceptance by my Government of the said amendments which relate to the number of members of the Board of Directors of the National Bank of the

Republic of Haiti and to their term of office. Consequently, the text of Article III, as amended , becomes the
following :

"The National Bank of the Republic of Haiti shall be reorganized with a Board of Directors consisting of an Honorary President and four voting members . The Haitian Minister of Finance, or in his absence, the Acting Minister of Finance, shall be ex officio the Honorary President. Two of the voting members are always to be citizens of the Republic of Haiti. The other two voting members are always to be citizens of the United States of America. Decisions of the Board of Directors shall require a majority vote of the voting members of the Board. The President of the Republic of Haiti shall appoint the Haitian members of the Board of Directors ; the citizens of the United States of America who are members of the
Board shall be chosen by mutual agreement of the two Governments. All of the voting members of the Board shall hold office for a period of five years and shall not be removed except for cause. Provided, however, that the terms commencing October 1 , 1946 shall continue until September 30, 1947 only. Vacancies on the Board of Directors shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.
"There shall be two Co-Presidents of the Board of Directors of the Bank. One of these, the Haitian Minister of Finance, shall act
95347-49-PT. III- 26

2677

2678

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
as Honorary President, as indicated above , and shall preside over the meetings of the Board of Directors, and may be one of the two Haitian voting members . The other Co-President shall be one of the two citizens of the United States of America. It shall be his duty to represent the holders of the bonds of 1922 and 1923 and to coordinate and direct the functions and activities of the two Vice Presidents , who shall be elected by the Board of Directors of the Bank, and who may be members of the Board . One of the Vice Presidents shall be charged with supervising and carrying out the commercial operations of the Bank, and the other shall be charged with supervising and carrying out the fiscal functions of the Bank, under the immediate direction of the President who shall be responsible for such work.
"Any voting member of the Board of Directors of the Bank who is unable to attend a meeting of the Board may give a proxy to any other member of the Board of Directors to represent him.
"The Board of Directors shall exercise with respect to the fiscal functions of the Bank the powers hereinafter set forth . The fiscal functions of the Bank shall be undertaken by a Fiscal Department to be operated in accordance with the regulations issued by the Board of Directors pursuant to such powers.
"The Board of Directors shall continue to exercise with respect to all other functions of the Bank the powers set forth in the charter and by-laws of the Bank."
Please accept, Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my very high consideration.
DR. PRICE-MARS His Excellency
HAROLD H. TITTMANN, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America Port-au-Prince

Map " A"auncked to the
Agreement on Zones of Occupation in Austria

SCALE 1 : 1.000.000

AUSTRIA

of 9th July , 1945. 2.4.~ da Re h-u

x ona
0e Bott 
pp
Asch bach
G R E B L R A R O V

9°

10 °

11°

12 °

13°

Mosbbaacchh

etters

14°

15°

16

17°

Ho he

Neckerbischo

Bartengin

Rothenburg

Diectenmhboflenr COrn. ly val

Trauonfeld 657

andling

Winklarn

Tabor

Wollin

Krigans

act Sheim

Ingslangen

Schroate

Colmby olchrby

Schwabach tud Felicht

Kasl

Schwarzen d

1038 Waldmünchen Czerkov

Neugedein

Klattau Planits

Selita

NewZeros

767

HÀNG LAU

Cr.Meseritsch

Schwarzenbg. O

Kojeleine

Sinshm

Sindringen Künzelsqu Bieufelden

Leitershsn. Ansbach Heilsbronn Lichtenau

iga Postbaum

Schwandorf

Neunburg Roetz

Weumark

Janprouts Silberberg Horaschdowits

Bernarditz Ob.Sabot sch

Plan

Tschernowz Libekswasser

Unter Zerekwe

Ober

Tischnowitz Blanz

RD Kremsier mylein

Altm

v. W.

Furth

O

Pi

Sudomierschuila

Kamenitz

Batt Triesch Pirnitz

Heinrichs

Wischau O

Werührlieden Wolfrums WTirnä dsbch.

Roth Neumarkt

Kolinetz

Strakonitz

sek Beching

eluu

Eichhorn

Weinsbg. Thringen Walding nshofen Kirchby Feuchtwa Weinby ngen

Escheybeh gh Abenby
Merkend Bezat

Allersbg.

Velburg Scherdstramen

Bruck 2.06Pr

Posing

Neukirchen Neuern Hoher Bo

Frimburg

Raschitz

Moldautein

O Sobieslau

Serowitz Potschulek 835

Stannern

.Wartenberg Budischan

Trebitsch

Namiest

0

Lösch

Morhowil Mounek

Adstature gangartach HEILBRONN Un&Stenbch

O

Qaraban

Agmünd

C

Wieseth

S

Burglengenfeld

Cham

La

Seewiesen

Protin

in

O

Teitsch

Oppalau

Rossitz BRÜNN Austerlitz Rutschowit 0

Bruckenh Dauffen Lowenstr. MicMhaelifnehladrdl Hall

railsham Jstheim

8 Bachhin

pati Heideck

Boling

Kotating

Strasch in

Drahonitz

Wesseli Mesi

Studein

O Pröding

Napage

O

Lis

Bark

Gunzenh

Berching

Mitach

Arnbruck Risenstein Unt Berg

Wol

most

Treniles Selle

Dal0leschile

Lapans

Bonnighm

Beilst

VellberyBiu

an Planteld

Breitenbrunn Beratzhen

Falkenstr

O 1457

1065

Stubenbch.Reichenstein

Ba

Baran

rau

Hrottowitzo

Fiberschütz

Moritschan

K

GeRaigern

Steiralz

UngHrad

49°

Walhm. Sulz Spiegelby Ottend bacho

Wassertri

lingen

0 Wenzen bach

Viechtach Gr. Aroor

O

rker

Bohumi

Lomnitz

o önigseck Dalschitz

Jarmeritz

Karit

9GrBotwar

Ubervor

Gaildorf Jaystzell

dingen

Rautenbuch Gredingo

Dretfurt Hemau

Etterzhen

Bodemais

Rehberg

litasinets

Frauenbgs

Maiu

Seelowits

Bietigheim

Silabch

Murrhard Richtenby Ellwa Rö

Fremdingen Heidenhm. Weißenburg O

Denerling

REGENSBURG Worth

Stallmang C 6

Zwiese

Aussergefüld

Nettolitz

Lischau

Mistritz

Wittingau

Jamnitz

Budwitz

H

Gara

Hurtowitz Frig.Ostra

49°

Log arkgroningenO

Marbach Backnang LUDWIGSBORG Un Groningen We

ngen hengen Newer

Irauchtign Jogffin Ottinger

Funding

Draub Gei

schao O

feldanlegen

o Ferchenhau

1091

aner Buchbold.

PiaMenschlag

O

BUDWEIS

labings

C Pohrlits

Klobouk

Bisens

Wessel

KornwestheiWminnenden ZUFFENHSN
Waibli

lshm Rupperishin Abisgmund

Westhen

ofgen Wen aanng

O Arnsby.

Kelheim

Katering

ay

Abbach

sing Sthonach

Thunderdorf oPerasdf Boger Schwarzach

1452 HochdrRinchnach ingenbrunn
O

Ob.Molden Wallery

Krems

Ledenitz

Litschau O

I E

alowits Mutenitz

Dudnian

Welka 10

hm

ngen

Schwäbisch Aalen

Bopf

N

Otting

Böhmfeld

Alimannsin

on D

Saal

Barried 1002

0 Airche StOOsroald Mau Kuschwarda

Stein

Forbes

kirch

Maritzen Bisgarn

Karlstein

ing

in

Dümholz

Leonbg

ANNSTATT Schornd

Lorch

Moggorg Unt Kocheninger

ördlingen

O Stammham

Straubing

Metters

Mirchbg

Schönanger o

Andreasberg

en Schw

R Ro

Göding

en

Altheim

0

Nassenfels

Abensbg

Jalling

Grafengu

Phillis Schöngu

Kulsching

einitz

Heidenreichstán

abs Prosend

R

Grustach Nikolsburg

STUTTGART ESSLINGEN

Heubach

Ploch Göppin Weiß

Hayburg Blosserdu

Ingolasching

Keustadta.D. Langquaid

Deggendfo

Wolfstein ogFreyung

Weleschin Grate

Waidhofen Schrems a. d

TE angyu

Erd

Sisymb

ingen

gen ensBiunr, tholoma

Le

Benners Neuburg

Munch

Hengersbg. Schötbac

Ob.Plan

O

Vitis

G.Siegharts Geras

berg Lenburg

Strange W n aldheenrbdruicngen h

ELS

Steinhm

O

0

a

lersd Neufa

Tu

ingo

Birsten eds

Röhrbach

Glöckg

Hörite

Strobaits O

Amund

TWeitersfeld Rets

Feldsberg

grident

Kirchhm Silber

Bissingen

Burghmy

AL

E

Welchering

Manching

hs n Fisting

O Waldkirchen

hwarzbach Kirch

Kaplitz DischBeneso Weitra

Schroa nd GS öpfritz

Puikau

La aaathora

6Boll

Gussenstag Heidenhe

en

N

Ergold och Gr.Kounich

Walierfing

Breiten Ulrichsbg

schlag

Kirchbg.

Ö

Sigmundsherby

Haugsdf

Staats

Poysdor

Seria

og DetteGnrhöstnsingen ürtingen Weilheim

Wistislingen Hochdnau

Mertingen

Geisenfa Pobennet

Mainburg

O

Leoprichting

Friedberg A

Wat Haid

Gr.Schönau R Allentsteig

Horn

Eggenburg

Stronsaf

80men

Geislingen Herbrecht

Do B

ndau Bichendf

Plainting Vilshot n

Hauzenbg igeng

Lippen

HGr.Pertholz

NeuPolla

Wullersdf Gnadend

Hoherau

Tübingen Metzingen Neuiten Wiesensteig

gen

ahr

Hauser

Lauingen

Wert

Essenbch Dingolfing

Walchsing

Thu Wegsch Peilstr

schlag

C

E Jagenber

Döllersheim

Brzeradf

Betsingen Grabenstation

engen

Dillingen

O

Pottmes

Ob.Minden

HaunersdfKrokstor

Beibch

Mariahorn Aldenbach Pass

rnau

I

Rohrbach OHaslach E llaid

CharistiftD

Sitzendf

Wellinger Weidenstetten

indelfingen

Thierhaupten

Schrobenhsn

r

Simbach Arnstorf

940

R

1111

E

o Rastenfeld

Ravelsbach

Hollabrunn

Zistersdf

Nadas

EUTLINGN

Trch 86

e Berghüler

Paa

O Holzheim

Biberbach

Praffenhofen Sünchen

LANDSHUT Bronfenhsn

Orten Firs n Eggthumb

Schardenbg.

PutalOeinsdR f Helfenbg Leonfelder

Sand I

Gr.Grungs Rappelenstr.

Gröhl

Ziersd

maringen

Pfullingen

5.

Welden

Versen

Malgersdf

Engelhartsseu

E O

0Pürnstn

Freistadt

O

Karbok SoPMliankewas

BU RG EN LA ND
Bal lb

Gonningen M

MBülnusmingenlerlingen

Günzburg

Aichach Kühbach

Geisenhen

Ob.Trennbach

T cha

Neufelden Zroet!

N Waite sfon.3

Grafenschung

Langentots Hndered

Jureinstal of

Durnkru

ötinger

beureno

Gersthofen

Hohenkammer opar

Moosburg

Birnbeak

S Münzk

Obe mithi

O

Waldko

Reichenau

Scchhönbech

Wakersdf Kirchbery

Pyrowartho

Engstingen

Schelkign Neu Ulm

Zusmarshsn AUGSBURG

Jetr

GriesbaR ch Schärding Taufkchn. Neukchn

Ottenschlag

Krems

Gr.Schreinbarth Stockerau Wolkersdf

764 Bernek

Eglingen Bremeler OlDischBgrnbach

Pfaf

LECHHS Altomünster

Freising Isan Langenpreising

Eggenfumen

Trifern E

Haibach

Hellmonsoo

Absdort

Pulichs Anger

0

gen

fe

Weißenh

BurObch

Gessertshan

Markt

06.Zeillback

0

Massing

BBlarn Wi mannsquick

Pock

O

Ando Enzenkirchen

Mautern Traismauer

Báho

Mage

Haying

hing

orn Hiemetshan

Göggi HanFsrtieetdtbeenrg

Indersdr

Fraunbg Taufkchn

Nelema

O

Botthalminster

Lambrechten PeuRearbgabch Wazchn

Zell

Gänserndf

Lozorna

en

en

Biberach

Fischyou Bobinge

Erding

Rohrbach

Tarn OO

Ering

Zell

URFAHR

Wagram

Karpaten Bösing

Thankhon

Mering

Moosinning

Dorten Buchback

Leon Beischuch Ob. urken Simback

hernbg. StMartin

LINZ

Tragronin

Ob SieobentMyarcheg

mpfen

Veringenstan

Munderkingen Laupheim O Illertissen

KrumbacLhangenneufn

brBirainkgs - Merching

Dachane Ob.Schleißhm

Ampfing

Marktl

StGeorgen Pery

Weiten

Sieghartshen. Mowers

oldsdf

Heynerg

Riedlingen Vitenroller

ach Derndl

Jamaning

Lengdf

New

Braunau S&Laurers

Bouthin Grei

Perse KLP. Melle

LeopSchloßhof

O

Schoengi

Balenhan

Mul

Egling Fürstenfeldbruck

MÜNCHEN

Schuber Isen

Altötting Tübing

Steinerkchn

True MEabrekltsbyEnns

beug

Neu Lengbch.

GREERSOF

Engelharts

PRESSBURG ATISLAVAL

Dürmentinge

Ranstetten

Nefrach

Rechera

MOorooreiesn

erO p

Belinden Hang

Traiburg

Neuken.o

C

O

Ardagger

Pochlarn Loosd

Böheimkehn

BON WAT 1 Fainnurg

(BR

r Herbert Biberach

Am

PfafferAsn Tusselchen

Schrabhs

Ebersquoding obuspoltshfn.

Wels Neuhin

Valentin

Wallsee

Ybbs

Amstellen

LIESING

END

Petronell

ingen QBuchau Ochs

PASING

T

Petersching

Petersch

H

800 Ottnang Bambch

Hematen Weichstetten

Strengbg.

Stössing Mauser Leopoldsuf

FISCHAM

Kiblage

Saulgau

enhan

Mindelhm ürkam

Greifenag

Steinhöring

Frankenburg

Haag

Wilhelmsbg.

DLING

SCHWADF

48°

9

Bet



Buchloe Landsberg

Gauting

Egtharting

Wasserburg GMraafridng

Schnaitsee Tittmoning

gelsbg.

· Schwanenstadt Wimsbeh Avitany

Kremsmünster Siernin Stey

Traisen Rabenstein

Bruck

EUSIEDE

Parndf

Somorja

48 °

Yorndor Pfullendi

Altshsru

Aulendf C

Elbeangen

Memmingen

Herrsching

Hove

Kienbgo Trostbg.

Friedburg Vicdabruck

Vorchdf

BadHall Adbyng

Garste

Kaumba

BadenTN

Marnersd

Riadhon

Waldsee Wursach Tue r

Retender. Forsen

Leader

Germar

Dießen Traubing

StarnbergSauerlach Endthen

Osterndinghen Halfing

Seebruck

Waging

Obernas. Kostendo

melkam

Luakchn

Frankenmkt Schöning

indeb Viecht

Pettenoch Grünbu

OTernberg

Waidhofen 9 Grester

a.d.Ybbs

Gam

Pankenfels

Bernd Leobersar

Donnersch

Neusiedl

Danketsroln

Wat O e s r Eggen o t u hs. Kaufbeurgn Bott Tutsing Wolfptshen. en Fe

Endorf

Bertum

Alimi

roango

rg

Losenstein

Gafler

U. S.

S.

R.Chita Wollers

ho rthe

HalObda

lingAltent

Wolfegg Leutkir

gender Grönenda

Pani

Linden

ldkirchen

Prutting Estadi Chieming Traunstem.

Arsee

Seekchn Hand Zell

W S.

Michdf

Raming

Hohe Anabg.

Trutad

benfu Schützen

Pedersdr

Pieselburg

Legan

Hinsburg Ostersall

Weilheim Bernried

Holskirchen BadAibling Rosenheim

Bugend

Mondsee eyres

A.

Richraming

SPGe gen Luns

Gutenstein Valdegg

Frauenkech

Wittenhin

Weingarten

Altusried

Bidingen Changay

Beuerbg.

Traunkchr

Klaus

Wey

SternhofSchroareau.

Had Fischay 94

Eisenstade 3

Interunt

Ravensbung Blog!

Aitrang Markt Operdf

O Petting

Reissenbe

Seeshaupt

Axuyur Oberhen Penz

Konigsdf
Schaftlash Miesbach Au
C

Fraedf Bernau

Singsdf

Egerndach Ruhpolding

Unterach Höllen Geb.

Fuschl

Weißenbch Ebensee

SALZBURG

SPankraz

KL.Reifling Hollenstein

Neuhous

Gippel-B

Shegyder
Schnee-8 Puchbg 2076

St Marethen Rust

Andau

Leiden o

dingen

berg

munk

Ferbash

Neunkirchen

KONSTANZ

Tettnang

Wa

O Durach

Dechbruck

O Schöffo Anidf

Brannenburgo Schliersee

Bad

Pichl Windisch

Gußwerk

Erlach

OPENBURG ON

Pamhag

Friedrichsha

ngen

Nellepog

HoBhaupten Steingaden Sands

Bichl

BWeasdsee

Reit Winkl

Reichenhal

yarsten

WegscheidMürzst

Seabenstr.

OPR

Enese

fen

Mittelberg

Mochel

Lenggries Fischhen

Hallein

Gams

Wildalpen Weicbhosdeeln- o

eg

rna

Wereach Nesselang BuchingSaulgr

Ohlstad

Tonnerr

O Kreuth Bayrischzell

Unkeno/

Berggaden

Goisern

Spital

Veitsch--A4. Neubery

Gloggnitz Hochroot

Cso

Immenstadt

Sehra

Or Ammergau

Urfeld

Walchsee

lochschuwab

672

ammering

lits

Kapupar C

ngau

Jochenau

Golling

WengEGesäuse Hieftau

2878

oSeemobesen

Ed

Sue

Sulgere

Staufen ch

tissen

Eschenlohe

Iscor

Kufstein Brpfend

Honig

Cosau o

ittern

Weisgenbach Admont isene

Mürzzuschlag

chbg Wechsel

StMartin

T

B

Rorsch

B

Ba

Son hofen

Vils

Oberau Obernach ord.Rif Achenkirch

Kaiser-GeSbtJohann

z.m2a7n1n4

Hallstatt

Stainoch

Selzthal

Hoc2h3rt72nzoer

Eisenerz O

Aflenz

r - Al

Oberort

Rettenegy

Aspang

Csape

ischofsell

regen

Hn dan

be

misch

Steinbg Kirchbich!

o

Tennen Gub

Erspteenrgo

O

Krieglach Wedhse

O rumbch

Oberpallad

ST.GALLEN

Fischen

Tanphm

Partenkirch

Söll

ganger

2428

Maran

Rottenmann Nous

Gaishorn

Präbiel

Kindberg

ch

Beled

Szany

Gyarm

Weißenbch Heiterwang

Hlais

Help Seehof

Bria

Reberbrunn

O

Trieber

Vordernog

o -K

Jutisbg

Trogen L Teuf

Oberstel

ech

Flerwald's -S. Mitter

Rattenberg

Wörgl

Steinb

WertenR G

Grobming

2440-

Schober Wald

Trofaiach

1318 Fischbach

Felsösag

Répecelak Marcal Geranc

Magelang Herila o en

Besa

AL

L Bichlbach

Zugspi

er

Achmateo Jenbach Ta

Hopfgarten

Kitzbühel

e Saalfelden 2050 Bischofen

Dachsteich

Pass Bottenmanner T

BruckKapfenbg. 1582

chantsko

LSichen Appenzel

Stansach

Lermoos

Scharnits 2756

nn

Leogang oSaalbch

Labra HoU chköni

Radstad Pichl

O Vorau

Pinkafeld

Al pe n
teak

tag Urnasch

Elmen

Mieminger Geb. Seefeld

I Schwa

Jochbergo

Millereel

B fühlbac

Mark Pongu

Sch

Birkfeld

Cins

Hegyfaly

Ostffyasszonyfa

Hemberg

Mona

Wasser

Rankwel

Band

Haselgehr

Mieming Jelks

Unt Pill Füge Hall

A/1 en

Goldegy

O Sa

Flachau

Grandfo

t Neblau Santis

Feldkirch

Elbigenatp

Nassereiin Baiming

Reith

Waltons

Kalten back

Branby

Uttend! am Se Bruck 4

SeaVhero reas lt Untertauern

Röthe stein HochgollinSTE PusteroaldIERM lpeAR

Hartberghau Pöllan

Vat Steinamanger o

Nemesszalók

brian Willhs /Ga

e

Imst tes

INNSBRUCK

Neukirchen

0

Ob.Zeiring

A

Passail

(Szombathely)

Celldomol

AltStJohann

Lech o Steeg

Lech Scno

Vats

BadstTauern

O

Speik

Knittelfeld

Frohnleiter

O

mden

Buck

0 Wallenstadi Va

Nensing

Stuben

Flirsch

06. 1 Apel

RINING

Sellrain

Fulpr

Schonbg

Rouis

Krimml

10

BadPusch

e

Kesselfati

Ob.Wolz
StPeter O

Fohnsd

1989

Wei0s

Kaind

0 Peggau

K

free

Boba

Mühl

Sepelen

nna

Pions Landeck

a

Unghen

es

Wattener

A

Alpenhs

T

Hofgastein

Schöder

St Georgen Scheifting

Zeltreg

Stübing

·S Radegund

o Pichelsdf

Jánoshára

ehorn

Ros

Strengen

Neustift

Matry

N

Murau

Seethal Jugenba

Kainach

Harus

Schru

Fe

Gruppe p See

r

Liertpler

Badogast

SMichaelo Ramingst

Teenbch StLorenzen StLambre h

U.

K. Salla

EGGENBERG GRAZ

Meisdorf Gr.Wilkersd

Rabahide Hosssiereszteg

Devecser

Sargans

Kappl

FRANCE

berg Fredlite

Neumarkt A2l3p97enObdach 8104

oflach Voitsberg

Nestelbach

Fürstenfel

Guisang

Csabrendek

47

am

Osens

Prägraten MatreiMarld Heiligenblue

Ge Hochalmap. Rennwego

Mühlen

Studer sen

Heiliger

Vasoár

47°

Land furt

Pfunds

Mittelberg

Mallnitz 33ss

Goist

Lababer

Galtür

Silden

Dollach

Dr.Malta

Turrach

Mathils

Sau

Pack

Lieboo

Fernits

Sümeg

olochfinstermins tele

Huber 3280

Rattad Obervellach

Friesach Bittenberg

Tap

Nauders Wildspitze

W

MOLL

Leoben&

C

k

Burchbach

Schie Jen

Alsóbay

Zala ossánto O

Reichena Chur

377 O Gur

2062

puntLeibnig

Pen

Louing

Wildon

Bad Chenber

szentlászló

Rheen

Plasenc D

4u g

akMules

Defereggen

Ebene Reiche au Weitersfeld

Preding S6 Georgen

Zalatoo

0 Karmacs

Norder

avus -Dorf

Faufen-B ta

Wie

Kreuz- Eck

Hodes

Zalaegerszeg

Ilang

Arosh

Sus

l

ns

Inneroillgraten

Radenthein

Straden

Senyalása

Keszthely

SLeonardo Paririe

Rio Pusteria

Brunico

KA GreiR fen NT Gnesau E SVeit LaufsN df

Labrits

Zala

Fuela- P

Silkan

Drau

ObDrauly. burg

Döbriach

S&Johann StAndr

Schmanbg. Gleinstetten

Thausts

Lens

O

Fibsur

Zernes

MallesVenostab

Merano

Bressano (Brixen

Abfaltersoch Liesing

Dellach Drau

Africa Himmelby Steindachn

Pischdf

Griffer

Vies o

Ehrenhsn

Creentreg

Nove 

Facsa

Balon

Fiefercastel

Bergün

Studerno

Daturne

Meran)

Chiusa

Ob.Tiad

Kötschach Weissbriach

Paternion Weißenstein

MariaSagy

StPaul

Bibiswale

Spielhide

Kadkersb

Spondigna Standro

Campoinsta

Landro

K

Gall

Kirchbach Hermagor Förolach

Völkermarkt O Lippitzbe

Arnfels oLau

Lehti

Splügen

Andea

Albula P

Minster

Bleiberg

Velden

Klagenfurt

Ob Shinigund

oPáka

Gelse O

SMoria

Jana Vilpiano

Ortisei

Badia

Villach

Maria Worth Grafensin

pihnsdf. 0

Presen

StLeonhard

Daziendana

Marcali

Xgt Spbigen

Asgraden

Colladbo O

h Mödernd

Nötsch Gail

Rosegg

Unt. Drauburg

Zellnitz

O

o Barok

Biskomáron

Bernhardin

Stator JulierP

Suiser Joch

Bolzano (Bozen

Stusi 3178 Plan

Cortina

Auronzo

S. Stefano Calore

Arnoldstn

Weizelsdf

Sittersdf Petzen

Marburg

Dobri ssentyyorgy

X Bivio Silvaplana

3902

Bo

Ortler

CanazGer.idi Sella

pd'Ampesso

Rosenbch. Feistritz Ferlach

SPLorenzen

Buttenberg

Sredisce

Nagykaniz

Nemesvid

M Septimer

mato

O·Lorenzago

oApla

W

nk

7543



SHAEF No.36

10°

11 °

12°

13°

14 °

15 °

16 °

17° PREPARED BY PH. P.RESEARCH .

TOWNS

KOLN Cityor Town : population of over 100,000
ERFURT

STENDAL 99

59

92

30,000

Riesa

39

99

10,000

Pillau O Lebus

Town : population of over 5,000 Town or Village : population of under 5,000

Tanne Village or smaller place

1/ DEC 44/13 MRS/240

 

Miles IO 5 0 Kilometres20 10

CANALS

Canals 1st class

Canals 2nd class

in other countries

1 Head ofriver navigation

Canals under construction-

Swamps, Marshes (Moor)

10 20

Scale 20 40

11 ::1 1,,000000,000

30

40

50

+

60

80

1 Inch - 15-78 IMillimetre : I Kilometre

60

70

80

190

100

+

100

120

140

160

CANAL CAPACITY River or Canal for ships with capacity of 1,200 tons or above

600 59









99

,, up to 600 99





400 99

 180

120

130 Miles

200 Kilometres

RAILWAYS
Railways : FD or Express traffic
99 Multiple track main and
99 Single track, secondary
Narrow gauge

 



BOUNDARIES

Boundaries :

International

Reichsgau



Kreis
Zones
Photolithographed by 13 M.R.S. , R.E. , 1944 . Authorities : Obersichtskarte 1 /1,000,000 German Map showing Wehrkreis Boundaries 1942. International Boundaries are of "Greater German Reich" as shown on original map.

61STAT.]
Agreeme respec the C force AGREE UNIT SOCI THE PUB ADM
1. T Sov Britain French frontie armed Sociali 2. F into fo and a forces Nor Zon ann
No St "L
n 1 193 Oct

61 STAT.]

MULTILATERAL- AUSTRIA-JULY 9, 1945

2679

Agreement between the United States of America and other governments respecting zones of occupation in Austria and the administration of the City of Vienna. Signed at London July 9, 1945; entered into force July 24, 1945.

July 9, 1945 [T. I. A. S. 1600]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS AND THE UNITED KINGDOM AND THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC ON ZONES OF OCCUPATION IN AUSTRIA AND THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE CITY OF VIENNA.

1. The Governments of the United States of America, the Union triOac.cupation of Ausof Soviet Socialist Republics and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Provisional Government of the

French Republic have agreed that the territory of Austria within her

frontiers as they were on 31st December, 1937, will be occupied by armed forces of the United States of America, the Union of Soviet

Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom and the French Republic. 2. For the purposes of occupation, Austria will be divided as follows
into four zones, one of which will be allotted to each of the four Powers, and a special Vienna area which will be jointly occupied by armed forces of the four Powers :

Zones ofoccupation.

North-Eastern (Soviet) Zone (as shown on the annexed map "A")

The province of Lower Austria with the exception of the City of Vienna, that part of the province of Upper Austria situated on the left bank of the Danube, and the province ofBurgenland which existed prior to the Decree of 1st October, 1938 , [' ] concerning boundary changes in Austria, will

be occupied by armed forces of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

North-Western (United States) Zone (as shown on the annexed map "A")

The province of Salzburg and that part of the province of Upper Austria situated on the right bank of the Danube will be occupied by armed forces of the United States.

Western (French) Zone (as shown on the annexed map "A")

The provinces of Tirol and Vorarlberg will be occupied by armed forces of the French Republic.

1 ["Gesetz Über Gebietsveränderungen im Lande Österreich. Vom 1. Oktober 1938." Translation: "The Law concerning territorial changes in Austria since October 1 , 1938." Reichsgesetzblatt, Part 1 , pp. 1333 ff. ( 1938) .]

2680

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Southern (United King- The province of Carinthia, including dom ) Zone (as shown Ost Tirol, and the province of Styria,

on the annexed map except the area of the Burgenland as

"A")

it existed before the Decree of 1st

City of Vienna

October, 1938, will be occupied by armed forces of the United Kingdom.

The territory of the City of Vienna will be divided into the following parts as shown on the annexed map "B" :-

The districts of Leopoldstadt, Brigittenau , Floridsdorf, Wieden and Favoriten will be occupied by armed forces of the Soviet Union ;
The districts of Neubau, Josefstadt, Hernals, Alsergrund, Währing and Döbling will be occupied by armed forces of the United States of America ;

The districts of Mariahilf, Penzing, Funfhaus (including the district of Rudolfsheim) and Ottakring will be occupied by armed forces of the French Republic ;

The districts of Hietzing, Margareten, Meidling , Landstrasse and Simmering will be occupied by armed forces of the United Kingdom.
The district of Innere Stadt will be occupied by armed forces of the four Powers.

Boundaries.

3. Boundaries between the zones of occupation, with the exception

of the boundaries of the City of Vienna and of the province of Bur-

genland, will be those obtaining after the coming into effect of the

Decree of 1st October, 1938, concerning boundary changes in Austria.

Joint administration of City of Vienna.

The boundaries of the City of Vienna and of the province of Burgenland will be those which existed on 31st December, 1937.
4. An inter-Allied Governing Authority (Komendatura) , consisting of four Commandants appointed by their respective Commanders-in-

Chief, will be established to direct jointly the administration of the

Tulln airdrome.

City of Vienna. 5. The Tulln airdrome, together with all installations and facilities

drSocmhe.wechat air

pertaining thereto, will be under the administrative and operational control of the armed forces of the United States of America. The Schwechat airdrome, together with all installations and facilities

pertaining thereto, will be under the administrative and operational control of the armed forces of the United Kingdom for the joint use of the British and French armed forces . The armed forces and officials

Authentic texts.

of the occupying Powers will enjoy free and unimpeded access to the airdromes assigned to their respective occupancy and use.
6. The present Agreement has been drawn up in quadruplicate in the English, Russian and French languages . All three texts are authentic .

ption Burof the stria. rgen-
sisting ers-inofthe
cilities ational
The acilities rational Dintuse officials s tothe
licate in exts are

AUSTRIA

1 : 75.000

K

CITY

OF

VIENNA

O

R

N

E

U

B

U

D

S

D

Work

O R

N D O R F Groß-

Korneubu

eubur Denar

R G

Welchregarten

Judenau

TULLN T

H I E
U M G

Wipting UL

amber
STERNEUBURGE N 26

SEYRING

Stammersdf edf.

Gerasdorf

XIX

rgijodleyte

21

XXI

Benbrunn

ALNZER

REGAR TE

US. A. XVIL

XVII

18

20 XX

U.

S.

$.

16 XVI FRANCE

9
8 INTER I NATIONAL

I 2

IV
4 S

E

VIEN 3

R.

ASPERN

22 Bid theufory

13 U,

K 12

U.

K.

XL

Z B

I N

X U.S. S. R.

11 miserebersd

U

25N

G G

Inzersdin Bet Wien

1597

Resing rten

Abertan engelleru

Altkettenhof 22Schwecha

-Beytin Mannersil

Neukettenh 723

Thdecker

B

Liegelwerke

R

Boc elma

sch WagFam

DEUTSCH WAGRAN

Elling

Großhofen



132

Map "B " annexedto the

Agreement on Zones of Occupation in Austria

ndor

of the July,1945

9407 du

Re Lu

945-1945

WilderArous

Großenzersdf

heusiedl

Andersdo

SCHWESHAT

Schimen chainend Markt

1 :1
N U B E G M

G

189

LEGEND
PRE NAZI BOUNDARIES
Outer Boundary ofVienna Verwaltungsbezirk (Kreis)
Boundaries toner Boundaries ofVienna

KEY TO ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS OF PRE - NAZI
VIENNA I Innere Stadt II Leopoldstadt IL Landstrasse IV Wieden

V Margaretea VI Mariahilf VI Neubau VIII Josefstadt IX Alsery rund X Favoriten XI Simmering XII Meidling XIII Hietzing XIV Rudolfsheim XV Fünfhaus XYI Ottakring XVII Hernals XVIII Währing

Strande

XIX Döbling XX Brigidsdorf
XXI Floridsdorf

Wagranadina

Flying boat Alighting Area

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL- AUSTRIA-JULY 9, 1945

7. The present Agreement will come into force as soon as it has been approved by the four Governments . [']

2681 Entry into force.

The above text of the Agreement between the Governments of the United States of America, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United Kingdom and the Provisional Government of the French Republic on the Zones of Occupation in Austria and the Administration of the City of Vienna has been prepared and unanimously adopted by the European Advisory Commission at a meeting held on 9th July, 1945.

Representative of the Government of Representative of the Government of

the United States of America on the the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics

European Advisory Commission :

on the European Advisory Commission:

JOHN G. WINANT.

FT GUSEV.

Representative of the Government of Representative of the Provisional Gov-

the United Kingdom on the European ernment of the French Republic on

Advisory Commission :

the European Advisory Commission :

RONALD I. CAMPBELL

R MASSIGLI

LANCASTER HOUSE, LONDON, S.W.1 .
9th July, 1945.

1 [Notices of approval dated as follows: by the United Kingdom July 12, 1945; by France July 16, 1945 ; by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics July 21 , 1945 ; and by the United States of America July 24, 1945.]

2682

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.


     ,                    
 .

1.     ,                   ,     ,   31  1937  ,       ,    ,      .
2.           ,        HEB  ,        ,       :

   ,    7/ .
,      ,           ,   -
,      1 -
 1933     
,     Co-
  .

 //  .
     "".

       ,      ,      .

61 STAT.]

MULTILATERAL- AUSTRIA- JULY 9, 1945

2.-

  .
     "A" .

         .

/ / .
     "A" .

  ,   ,    ,    ,       I  1988  ,  -

   .

 .   ,      "3",
   :   , ,  ,   -
      .   ,  ,  ,  , 
       .   ,  ,  ,  ,
       .   , ,  ,   
     .       
 .

3.     ,         ,   ,         1  1938       .         ,    3  1937 .
4.        ,    ,     .

2683

2684

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 ST. 3.-
6.                        .                               .                ,        .
6.        ,    .      .
7.     ,       .

       ,        K  

                

   ,  9  1945

 .

         :

 

    

 



 

  

  :

 :

         :

9.Wmaint 

Ronald!Campbell whain.[]

  ,  .
9  1945 .
1 [The above signatures are : John G. Winant; FT Gusev; Ronald I. Campbell; R Massigli.]

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL-AUSTRIA-JULY 9, 1945

2685

ACCORD ENTRE LES GOUVERNEMENTS DES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE , DE L'UNION DES REPUBLIQUES SOCIALISTES SOVIETIQUES , DU ROYAUME-UNI ET LE GOUVERNEMENT PROVISOIRE DE LA REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE SUR LES ZONES D'OCCUPATION EN AUTRICHE ET L'ADMINISTRATION DE LA VILLE DE VIENNE.

1. Les Gouvernements des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, de l'Union des Républiques Socialistes Soviétiques et du Royaume-Uni et le Gouvernement Provisoire de la République Française sont tombés d'accord pour décider que l'Autriche, à l'intérieur de ses frontières telles qu'elles existaient le 31 décembre 1937 , sera occupée par les forces armées des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, de l'Union des Républiques Socialistes Soviétiques, du Royaume-Uni et de la République Française .
2. Aux fins d'occupation, l'Autriche sera divisée en quatre zones , dont une sera attribuée à chacune des quatre Puissances ; Vienne formera une région spéciale qui sera occupée conjointement par les forces armées des quatre Puissances:

Zone Nord-Est (Soviets) (voir carte "A" en annexe)

La province de Basse Autriche, à l'exception de la ville de Vienne, la partie de la province de Haute Autriche située sur la rive gauche du Danube, et la province du Burgenland, telle qu'elle existait avant la mise en vigueur du Décret du 1er octobre 1938 concernant les modifications de frontières en Autriche, seront occupées par les forces armées de l'Union

des Républiques Socialistes Soviétiques . Zone Nord-Ouest (Etats- La province de Salzbourg et la partie de

Unis) (voir carte "A" en annexe)

la province de Haute Autriche située sur la rive droite du Danube, seront occupées par les forces armées des Etats-Unis

d'Amérique.

Zone Ouest (France) (voir carte "A" en annexe)

Les provinces du Tyrol et du Vorarlberg seront occupées par les forces armées de la République Française.

Zone Sud (RoyaumeUni) (voir carte "A" en annexe)

La province de Carinthie, y compris le Tyrol oriental , et la province de Styrie, à l'exception de la région du Burgenland telle qu'elle existait avant la mise en vigueur du Décret du 1er octobre 1938 , seront occupées par les forces armées du Royaume-Uni.

2686

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Ville de Vienne Le territoire de la ville de Vienne sera divisé
comme suit en quatre secteurs : (voir carte "B" en annexe) .
Les arrondissements de Leopoldstadt, Brigittenau, Florisdorf, Wieden et Favoriten seront occupés par les forces armées de l'Union des Républiques Socialistes Soviétiques ; Les arrondissements de Neubau, Josefstadt, Hernals, Alsergrund , Wahring et Dobling seront occupés par les forces armées des Etats-Unis d'Amérique ; Les arrondissements de Mariahilf, Penzing, Funfhaus (Rudolfsheim compris) et Ottakring seront occupés par les forces armées de la République Française ; Les arrondissements de Wietzing, Margareten, Meidling, Landstrasse et Simmering seront occupés par les forces armées du Royaume-Uni ; L'arrondissement de Innere Stadt sera occupé par les forces armées des quatre puissances .
3. Les limites entre les zones d'occupation , à l'exception des limites de la ville de Vienne et de la province du Burgenland , seront les limites existant après la mise en vigueur du Décret du 1er octobre 1938 concernant les modifications des limites administratives autrichiennes. Les limites de la ville de Vienne et de la province du Burgenland seront celles qui existaient le 31 décembre 1937 .
4. Une Autorité Interalliée de Gouvernement (en russe: Komendatura) composée de quatre Commandants supérieurs, nommés par les Commandants en Chef respectifs, sera établie pour diriger conjointement l'administration de la ville de Vienne.
5. L'aérodrome de Tulln , ainsi que toutes les installations et facilités s'y trouvant, sera administré et exploité par les forces armées des Etats-Unis d'Amérique. L'aérodrome de Schwechat, ainsi que toutes les installations et facilités s'y trouvant, sera administré et exploité par les forces armées du Royaume-Uni . pour être utilisé en commun par les forces armées britanniques et françaises. Les forces armées et fonctionnaires des puissances occupantes auront libre accès aux aérodromes respectivement désignés pour être occupés et utilisés par elles .
6. Le présent Accord a été établi en quatre exemplaires, en anglais, français et russe. Les trois textes sont authentiques .
7. Le présent accord entrera en vigueur dès que les quatre Gouvernements l'auront approuvé.
Le texte ci-dessus de l'accord entre les Gouvernements des EtatsUnis d'Amérique, de l'Union des Républiques Socialistes Soviétiques,

61 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL- AUSTRIA-JULY 9, 1945

du Royaume-Uni et le Gouvernement Provisoire de la République Française sur les zones d'occupation en Autriche et l'administration

de la ville de Vienne a été préparé et adopté à l'unanimité par la Commission Consultative Européenne dans sa séance du 9 juillet 1945 .

Le Représentant du Gouvernement des Le Représentant de l'Union des Répu-

Etats-Unis d'Amérique à la Commis- blique Socialistes Soviétiques à la

sion Consultative Européenne

Commission Consultative Européenne

JOHN G. WINANT.

FT GUSEV.

Le Représentant du Gouvernement du Le Représentant du Gouvernement Pro-

Royaume-Uni à la Commission Con- visoire de la République Française

sultative Européenne

à la Commission Consultative Euro-

RONALD I. CAMPBELL

péenne R MASSIGLI.

LANCASTER HOUSE, LONDRES , S.W.1 . 9 juillet 1945.

2687

2688

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

September 12, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1601 ]

Agreement and supplemental exchanges ofnotes between the United States
of America and Paraguay respecting reciprocal trade. Signed at Asunción September 12, 1946 ; published in Gaceta Oficial ofthe Republic of Paraguay February 26, 1947 ; proclaimed by the President of the United States of America March 10, 1947; effective April 9, 1947.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS Section 350 (a) of the Tariff Act of 1930 , as amended by the act of June 12 , 1934 entitled "AN ACT To amend the Tariff Act

of 1930 " (48 Stat. 943) , and as further amended by the joint resolution

19 U.S. C. § 1351 (a) . of June 7 , 1943 ( 57 Stat. 125 ) and by the act of July 5, 1945 (59 Stat. 410) , provides that the President is authorized under the terms and conditions set forth in said enactments to enter into trade agree-

ments with foreign governments or instrumentalities thereof, and to

proclaim such modifications of existing duties and other import restrictions , or such additional import restrictions , or such continuance ,

and for such minimum periods, of existing customs or excise treatment of any article covered by trade agreements, as are required or appro-

priate to carry out any such trade agreement ; WHEREAS the period during which the President is authorized to
enter into trade agreements under the said section 350 (a) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, has been extended by joint resolutions approved March 1 , 1937 , April 12 , 1940 and June 7, 1943, and by 19 U.S. C. §1352 (c). act of July 5, 1945 (50 Stat. 24 ; 54 Stat. 107 ; 57 Stat. 125 ; 59 Stat. 410) , the latest extension being effective for a period of three years from June 12 , 1945 ;

WHEREAS I , Harry S. Truman, President of the United States of America, acting pursuant to the said section 350 (a) of the Tariff

Act of 1930 , as amended , have found as a fact that certain existing duties and other import restrictions of the United States of America

and the Republic of Paraguay are unduly burdening and restricting the foreign trade of the United States of America and that the purpose declared in the said section 350 (a) of the Tariff Act of 1930 , as amended, will be promoted by a trade agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of Paraguay ;

WHEREAS reasonable public notice of the intention to negotiate

19 U.S. C. § 1354.

such trade agreement was given as prescribed by section 4 of the act of June 12 , 1934 entitled " AN ACT To amend the Tariff Act of 1930 " (48 Stat. 945) , as amended by the act of July 5, 1945 (59

Stat . 411 ) , and the views presented by persons interested in the negotiation of such agreement were received and considered ;

WHEREAS, after seeking and obtaining information and advice with respect to such agreement from the United States Tariff Com-

mission, the Departments of State, War, Navy, Agriculture, and

61 STAT. ] PARAGUAY-RECIPROCAL TRADE-- SEPT. 12, 1946

2689

Commerce, and from other sources, as prescribed by the aforesaid act of June 12 , 1934 , as amended , I entered into a Trade Agreement on September 12, 1946 , through my duly empowered Plenipotentiary, with the President of the Republic of Paraguay, through his duly empowered Plenipotentiary, which Agreement, including two Schedules annexed thereto, in the English and Spanish languages , is in words and figures as follows:

The President of the United El Presidente de los Estados

States of America and the Presi- Unidos de América y el Presidente

dent of the Republic of Paraguay, de la República del Paraguay, debeing desirous of strengthening seosos de fortalecer los tradiciothe traditional bonds of friend- nales vínculos de amistad que ship existing between the two existen entre los dos países mecountries through the maintenance diante el mantenimiento del prin-

of the principle of equality of cipio de igualdad de tratamiento treatment in its unconditional en su forma incondicional e ilimiand unlimited form as the basis of tada como base de las relaciones

commercial relations and through comerciales y mediante el otorga-

the granting of mutual and recip- miento de mutuas y recíprocas rocal concessions and advantages concesiones y ventajas para el

for the promotion of trade, have fomento del comercio, han resuelto resolved to conclude a Trade celebrar un Convenio Comercial

Agreement so providing and have que así lo establezca y, a tal efecto,

appointed for this purpose as their han designado sus Plenipoten-

Plenipotentiaries:

ciarios, a saber:

The President of the United El Presidente de los Estados

States of America:

Unidos de América:

Willard L. Beaulac, Ambassa- Al Señor Willard L. Beaulac,

dor Extraordinary and Plenipo- Embajador Extraordinario y Pleni-

tentiary of the United States of potenciario de los Estados Unidos

America to the Republic of Para- de América a la República del

guay; and

Paraguay ; y

The President of the Republic El Presidente de la República

of Paraguay:

del Paraguay:

His Excellency Doctor Miguel A Su Excelencia el Doctor

Angel Soler, Minister of Foreign Miguel Angel Soler, Ministro de

Relations and Worship ;

Relaciones Exteriores y Culto ;

Who , after having exchanged Quienes, después de haber can-

their full powers , found to be in jeado sus plenos poderes , hallados

good and due form, have agreed en buena y debida forma , han

upon the following provisions :

convenido en las disposiciones

siguientes :

Purposes declared. Plenipotentiaries.

ARTICLE I

ARTICULO I

1. The United States of America 1. Los Estados Unidos de Most-favored-nation treatment.
and the Republic of Paraguay will América y la República del Para-

grant each other unconditional guay se concederán mutuamente el and unrestricted most-favored-na- tratamiento incondicional e ilimi-

tion treatment in all matters con- tado de la nación más favorecida

2690

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

cerning customs duties and sub- en todas las cuestiones relativas a

sidiary charges of every kind and derechos aduaneros y cargas subin the method of levying such sidiarias de cualquier clase, al duties and charges, and, further, in modo de percibir tales derechos y all matters concerning the rules, cargas, y, además, en todo lo formalities and charges imposed in concerniente a las reglas , formaliconnection with the clearing of dades y cargas a que las operagoods through the customs, and ciones de despacho de aduana

with respect to all laws or regula- pudieran estar sujetas, y con

tions affecting the sale , taxation, respecto a todas las leyes o regla-

distribution or use of imported mentos que afectan la venta , la

goods within the country.

tributación , la distribución o el uso

dentro del país de las mercancías

importadas .

2. Accordingly, articles the 2. En consecuencia, los artí-

growth, produce or manufacture culos cultivados , producidos o of either country imported into manufacturados en cualquiera de the other shall in no case be sub- los dos países, que se importen en

ject, in regard to the matters re- el otro, no estarán sujetos en ferred to above, to any duties, ningún caso, con respecto a las taxes or charges other or higher, or cuestiones precitadas , a derechos, to any rules or formalities other impuestos o cargas distintos o más or more burdensome, than those elevados , ni a reglas o formalidades to which the like articles the distintas o más gravosas que

growth, produce or manufacture aquéllos a que están o en el fu-

of any third country are or may turo puedan estar sujetos los

hereafter be subject.

artículos similares cultivados, pro-

ducidos o manufacturados en cual-

quier tercer país. 3. Similarly, articles exported 3. Igualmente , los artículos que

from the territory of the United se exporten desde el territorio de

States of America or the Republic los Estados Unidos de América o

of Paraguay and consigned to the de la República del Paraguay con

territory of the other country destino al territorio del otro país , shall in no case be subject with no estarán sujetos en ningún caso,

respect to exportation and in re- con respecto a su exportación y a

gard to the above-mentioned mat- las cuestiones arriba mencionadas, ters, to any duties, taxes or a derechos, impuestos o cargas

charges other or higher, or to any distintos o más elevados, ni a rules or formalities other or more reglas o formalidades distintas o burdensome, than those to which más gravosas que aquéllos a que

the like articles when consigned to están o en el futuro puedan estar the territory of any third country sujetos los artículos similares desare or may hereafter be subject. tinados al territorio de cualquier

tercer país.

4. Any advantage, favor, privi- 4. Cualquier ventaja, favor, pri-

lege or immunity which has been vilegio o inmunidad que haya sido or may hereafter be granted by the concedido o que en el futuro sea United States of America or the concedido por los Estados Unidos Republic of Paraguay in regard to de América o por la República del

61 STAT.] PARAGUAY- RECIPROCAL TRADE- SEPT. 12, 1946

2691

the above-mentioned matters , to Paraguay, respecto de las materias any article originating in any third precitadas, a cualquier artículo country or consigned to the terri- originario de cualquier tercer país tory of any third country shall be o destinado al territorio de cual-

accorded immediately and with- quier tercer país, será concedido

out compensation to the like ar- inmediatamente y sin compensa-

ticle originating in or consigned to ción al artículo similar originario

the territory of the Republic of del territorio de la República del

Paraguay or the United States of Paraguay o de los Estados Unidos

America, respectively.

de América, respectivamente , o

destinado a cualquiera de los mismos .

ARTICLE II

ARTICULO II

Articles the growth, produce or Los artículos cultivados , pro- terEnxaelmtpatxieso,netfcr.om in-

manufacture of the United States ducidos o manufacturados en los

of America or the Republic of Estados Unidos de América o en la

Paraguay imported into the other República del Paraguay importa-

country shall, after their release dos al otro país estarán exentos ,

from customs custody, be exempt después de su despacho de la

from all internal taxes, fees, custodia aduanera, de todo im-

charges or exactions other or puesto, tasa, carga o gravamen

higher than those imposed on like internos distintos o más elevados

articles of national origin .

que los impuestos sobre artículos

similares de origen nacional.

ARTICLE III

ARTICULO III

1. No prohibition or restriction 1. Ni el Gobierno de los Estados of any kind shall be imposed by Unidos de América ni el Gobierno the Government of the United de la República del Paraguay States of America or the Govern- impondrá prohibiciones o res-

Freedom of imports and exports.

ment of the Republic of Paraguay tricciones de ninguna especie a la

on the importation, sale, distribu- importación , venta, distribución o tion or use of any article the uso de cualquier artículo cultivado ,

growth, produce or manufacture producido o manufacturado en el of the other country, or on the otro país, o a la exportación de exportation of any article destined cualquier artículo destinado al

for the territory of the other territorio del otro país, a menos country, unless the importation, que la importación, venta, distrisale, distribution or use of the like bución o uso del artículo similar

article the growth, produce or cultivado, producido o manufacmanufacture of all third countries, turado en todos los demás países , or the exportation of the like o la exportación del artículo simi-

article to all third countries, re- lar a todos los demás países, res-

spectively, is similarly prohibited or restricted .
2. If the Government of the United States of America or the

pectivamente , sea prohibida o restringida en forma similar.
2. Si el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América o el Gobierno

Public notice of quantitative regula-
tions.

Government of the Republic of de la República del Paraguay

Paraguay imposes any quantita- impone cualquier regulación cuan-

2692

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Allotments.

tive regulation on the importa- titativa a la importación o ex-

tion or exportation of any article, portación de cualquier artículo,

or on the sale, distribution or use o a la venta , distribución o uso

of any imported article , it shall as de cualquier artículo importado ,

a general rule give public notice dará por regla general noticia

of the total quantity or value of pública de la cantidad o valor

such article permitted to be im- total de tal artículo que se per-

ported , exported , sold , distributed mita importar, exportar , vender ,

or used during a specified period , distribuir o usar en un período

and of any change in such quan- especificado , y de cualquier cambio

tity or value . Furthermore, if en tal cantidad o valor. Además ,

the Government of either country si el Gobierno de cualquiera de

allots a share of such total quan- los dos países asigna una parte de tity or value to any third country, dicha cantidad o valor total a cual-

it shall as a general rule allot to quier tercer país , por regla general the other country, with respect to asignará al otro país , con respecto

any article in which the latter has a cualquier artículo en el cual éste

an important interest, a share tenga interés importante, una

based upon the proportion of the parte basada sobre la proporción

total quantity or value supplied de la cantidad o valor total sumi-

by, or in the case of exports a nistrada por , o en el caso de ex-

share based upon the proportion portaciones, una parte basada

exported to, such other country sobre la proporción exportada a ,

during a previous representative tal otro país en un período típico

period .

anterior.

3. The provisions of this Article 3. Las disposiciones de este

relating to imported articles shall Artículo relativas a los artículos

also apply in respect of the quan- importados se aplicarán también tity or value of any article per- con respecto a la cantidad o valor mitted to be imported free of duty de cualquier artículo que se per-

or tax or at a lower rate of duty or mita importar libre de derechos o

tax than the rate of duty or tax impuestos de aduanas, o a un

imposed on imports in excess of derecho o impuesto de aduanas

such quantity or value.

más bajo que el derecho o impuesto

de aduanas con que se graven las

importaciones en exceso de dicha

cantidad o valor.

ARTICLE IV

ARTICULO IV

Control of means of international pay- 1. If the Government of the 1. Si el Gobierno de los Estados

ment .

United States of America or the Unidos de América o el Gobierno

Government of the Republic of de la República del Paraguay

Paraguay establishes or maintains establece o mantiene una forma any form of control of the means cualquiera de control de los medios

of international payment , it de pagos internacionales, conshall accord unconditional most- cederá el tratamiento incondifavored-nation treatment to the cional de la nación más favorecida

commerce of the other country al comercio del otro país con

with respect to all aspects of such respecto a todos los aspectos de

control.

tal control.

61 STAT.] PARAGUAY-RECIPROCAL TRADE- SEPT. 12, 1946

2693

2. The Government establish- 2. El Gobierno que establezca
ing or maintaining such control o mantenga tal control no imponshall impose no prohibition, re- drá ninguna prohibición, restricstriction or delay on the trans- ción o demora a la transferencia fer of payment for any article del pago para cualquier artículo the growth, produce or manufac- cultivado , producido o manufacture of the other country which is turado en el otro país que no se not imposed on the transfer of pay- imponga a la transferencia del ment for the like article the pago para un artículo similar growth, produce or manufacture cultivado, producido o manufacof any third country. With re- turado en cualquier tercer país. spect to rates of exchange and Con respecto a los tipos de cambio with respect to taxes or charges on y con respecto a las tasas o cargas exchange transactions , articles the sobre operaciones de cambio , a los growth, produce or manufacture of artículos cultivados, producidos o the other country shall be accord- manufacturados en el otro país se ed unconditionally treatment no les concederá un tratamiento inless favorable than that accorded condicional no menos favorable
to the like articles the growth, que el concedido a los artículos produce or manufacture of any similares cultivados , producidos o third country. The foregoing pro- manufacturados en cualquier tervisions shall also extend to the cer país . Las disposiciones que application of such control to anteceden también se extenderán payments necessary for or inci- a la aplicación del control a los dental to the importation of arti- pagos necesarios para o inherentes cles the growth, produce or manu- a la importación de los artículos facture of the other country. In cultivados, producidos o general, the control shall be ad- facturados en el otro país . En ministered so as not to influence general, el control se aplicará de to the disadvantage of the other manera que no sea en perjuicio country the competitive relation- del otro país en lo que respecta a ships between articles the growth, la competencia entre los artículos produce or manufacture of the ter- cultivados , producidos o manu-
ritories of that country and like facturados en los territorios de ese articles the growth, produce or país y los artículos similares culmanufacture of third countries. tivados, producidos o manufac-
turados en terceros países.

ARTICLE V

ARTICULO V

1. If the Government of the 1. Si el Gobierno de los Estados United States of America or the Unidos de América o el Gobierno Government of the Republic of de la República del Paraguay Paraguay establishes or maintains establece o mantiene un monopolio a monopoly for the importation, para la importación , exportación, exportation , sale, distribution or venta , distribución o producción production of any article or grants de cualquier artículo u otorga exclusive privileges to any agency privilegios exclusivos a cualquier to import, export, sell, distribute organismo para importar, exporor produce any article, the com- tar , vender, distribuir o producir merce of the other country shall cualquier artículo, se concederá al
95347°-49- PT. III- -27

Monopolies.

2694

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

be accorded fair and equitable comercio del otro país un trata-

treatment in respect of the foreign miento justo y equitativo con respurchases or sales of such monop- pecto a las compras o ventas en oly or agency. To this end such el extranjero de dicho monopolio monopoly or agency shall, in u organismo . A ese efecto, dicho making its foreign purchases or monopolio u organismo , al efectuar sales of any article , be influenced sus compras o ventas de cualquier solely by considerations , such as artículo en el extranjero , se guiará price, quality, marketability and únicamente por consideraciones terms of purchase or sale, which tales como precio , calidad, posiwould ordinarily be taken into ac- bilidades de compraventa y con-

count by a private commercial en- diciones de compra o venta que

terprise interested solely in pur- ordinariamente tomaría en cuenta

chasing or selling such article on una empresa comercial privada

the most favorable terms .

interesada solamente en comprar

o vender tal artículo en las con-

Public-works contracts, etc.

diciones más favorables . 2. The Government of the 2. El Gobierno de los Estados

United States of America and the Unidos de América y el Gobierno

Government of the Republic of de la República del Paraguay, al

Paraguay, in the awarding of con- adjudicar contratos para obras

tracts for public works and gener- públicas y generalmente al hacer

ally in the purchase of supplies, compras de materiales , concedeshall accord fair and equitable rán un tratamiento justo y equi-

treatment to the commerce of the tativo al comercio del otro país

other country as compared with en comparación con el tratathe treatment accorded to the miento concedido al comercio de

commerce of any third country. cualquier tercer país.

ARTICLE VI

ARTICULO VI

Publication of laws, regulations, and deci sions.

1. Laws, regulations of admin- 1. Las leyes, reglamentaciones istrative authorities and decisions de autoridades administrativas y of administrative or judicial au- decisiones de autoridades administhorities of the United States of trativas o judiciales de los Esta-

America and the Republic of dos Unidos de América y de la Paraguay, respectively, pertain- República del Paraguay, respectiing to the classification of articles vamente, relativas a la clasifica-

for customs purposes or to rates ción de artículos para fines aduaof duty, shall be published as soon neros o a aranceles, serán puas possible in such a manner as to blicadas tan pronto como sea

Rulings effecting advances in rates of
duty, etc.

enable traders to become acquainted with them.
2. No administrative ruling by the Government of the United States of America or the Govern-

posible, en forma de permitir a los comerciantes el conocimiento de las mismas.
2. Ninguna disposición administrativa del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América o del

ment of the Republic of Paraguay Gobierno de la República del effecting advances in rates of Paraguay que disponga aumentos duties or in charges applicable en los aranceles de aduanas o en

61 STAT.] PARAGUAY-RECIPROCAL TRADE- SEPT. 12, 1946

2695

under an established and uniform las cargas aplicables de conformipractice to imports originating in dad con una práctica establecida

the territory of the other country, y uniforme a las importaciones or imposing any new requirement originarias del territorio del otro

with respect to such importations, país, o que imponga cualquier shall be effective retroactively or nuevo requisito con respecto a

as a general rule with respect to tales importaciones , se aplicará en articles either entered, or with- forma retroactiva ni aun como drawn from warehouse, for con- práctica general con respecto a

sumption prior to the expiration artículos que hayan entrado, o of thirty days after the date of hayan sido retirados del depósito publication of notice of such ruling aduanero, para el consumo antes in the usual official manner ; pro- de la expiración de treinta días vided that, in respect to articles siguientes a la fecha de publicación

imported into the Republic of del anuncio de dicha disposición Paraguay, the foregoing provisions en la forma oficial acostumbrada ; as to the effective date of adminis- disponiéndose que, en lo que

trative rulings may be limited (a) respecta a artículos importados to articles which at the time of por la República del Paraguay,

such publication are in a Para- las anteriores disposiciones relaguayan customs warehouse , (b) tivas a la fecha efectiva de disto articles which at such time are posiciones administrativas, podrán

en route and (c) to articles which limitarse (a) a artículos que a la at such time are covered by com- fecha de dicha publicación se plete export shipping documents encuentren en un depósito de already issued . The provisions of aduanas paraguayo, (b) a artículos this paragraph shall not apply to que para esa fecha estén en

Nonapplicability.

administrative orders imposing tránsito y (c) a artículos que para

anti-dumping duties , or relating esa fecha estén amparados por to regulations for the protection documentos de exportación comof human, animal or plant life or pletos ya expedidos. Lo estipu-

health , or relating to public safety, lado en este párrafo no se aplicará

or giving effect to judicial deci- a las disposiciones administrativas

sions .

que impongan derechos contra

mercancías vendidas para efectuar un "dumping", o relativas a reglamentaciones para la protección de la vida o salud humana,

animal o vegetal, o relativas a la

3. Greater than nominal penalties shall not be imposed by the

seguridad pública, o para la ejecución de resoluciones judiciales .
3. No se impondrán por el
Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de

Penalties for errors in documentation.

Government of the United States América o el Gobierno de la

of America or the Government of República del Paraguay más que

the Republic of Paraguay in con- multas nominales con respecto a nection with the importation of la importación de artículos cultiarticles the growth, produce or vados , producidos o manufacmanufacture of the other country turados en el otro país, con motivo

2696

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

because of errors in documentation de errores en la documentación

Consultation.

which are obviously clerical in que patentemente se deban a la

origin.

simple escritura o sean errores

tipográficos (clerical errors) . 4. The Government of the 4. El Gobierno de los Estados

United States of America and the Unidos de América y el Gobierno

Government of the Republic of de la República del Paraguay Paraguay will accord sympathetic prestarán benévola consideración , consideration to , and will afford y ofrecerán oportunidades adeadequate opportunity for consul- cuadas de consulta, a las representation regarding, such representa- taciones que el otro Gobierno haga tions as the other Government con respecto a la aplicación de

may make with respect to the reglamentaciones aduaneras , a reoperation of customs regulations , gulaciones cuantitativas o a la

quantitative regulations or the aplicación de las mismas, a la obadministration thereof, the ob- servancia de formalidades adua-

servance of customs formalities, neras y a la aplicación de leyes and the application of sanitary y reglamentaciones sanitarias para laws and regulations for the pro- la protección de la vida o de la

Disagreement respecting application of sanitary laws, etc.

tection of human , animal or plant salud humana, animal y vegetal . life or health.
5. If the Government of the 5. Si el Gobierno de los Estados United States of America or the Unidos de América o el Gobierno

Government of the Republic of de la República del Paraguay Paraguay makes representations hiciera representaciones al otro to the Government of the other Gobierno con respecto a la aplica-

country in respect of the applica- ción de cualquier ley o reglamentation of any sanitary law or regula- ción sanitaria para la protección tion for the protection of human, de la vida o de la salud humana,

animal or plant life or health, and animal o vegetal, y hubiera desaif there is disagreement with cuerdo con respecto a la misma, se

respect thereto, a committee of constituirá, a pedido de cualtechnical experts on which each quiera de los dos Gobiernos, una Government shall be represented comisión de expertos técnicos , en shall , on the request of either Gov- la cual cada Gobierno estará repreernment, be established to con- sentado, a fin de considerar el sider the matter and to submit asunto y someter sus recomendarecommendations with respect ciones pertinentes . thereto .

ARTICLE VII

ARTICULO VII

Imports from U. 8. Articles the growth, produce or Los artículos cultivados, promanufacture of the United States ducidos o manufacturados en los

Post, p. 2706.

of America, enumerated and de- Estados Unidos de América, enuscribed in Schedule I annexed to merados y descritos en la Planilla this Agreement and made an in- I anexa a este Convenio, del cual

tegral part thereof, shall , on their forma parte integrante, al ser im-

importation into the Republic of portados en la República del ParaParaguay, be exempt from ordi- guay, estarán exentos de derechos

61 STAT. ] PARAGUAY-RECIPROCAL TRADE-SEPT. 12, 1946

2697

nary customs duties in excess of aduaneros ordinarios superiores a those set forth and provided for los estipulados y previstos en in the said Schedule, subject to dicha Planilla , con sujeción a las the conditions therein set out . condiciones establecidas en la misThe said articles shall also be ma. Dichos artículos estarán

exempt from all other duties, también exentos de todo otro

taxes, fees, charges or exactions, derecho aduanero , impuesto, tasa , imposed on or in connection with carga o gravamen impuesto a la importation, in excess of those im- importación o en relación con ella, posed on the day of the signature que excediere a los que se imof this Agreement or required to pongan en la fecha de la firma de

be imposed thereafter under laws este Convenio o a aquéllos cuya of the Republic of Paraguay in imposición ulterior estipulen las force on that day. Nevertheless, leyes de la República del Paraguay the Government of the Republic en vigor en esa fecha . No

Right to consolidate duRtiigesh,tettoc.

of Paraguay reserves the right to obstante, el Gobierno de la Repú-

consolidate, in connection with a blica del Paraguay se reserva el

general revision of the customs derecho de consolidar, en conexión

tariff, the duties, taxes, fees, con una revisión general del aran-

charges or exactions imposed on cel aduanero de importaciones, or in connection with importation, los derechos, impuestos, tasas,

provided that such consolidation cargas o gravámenes impuestos a

does not have the effect of impair- la importación o en relación con

ing the value of any concession ella, siempre que dicha consolida-

provided for in Schedule I.

ción no tenga el efecto de menos-

cabar el valor de cualquier con-

cesión prevista en la Planilla I.

ARTICLE VIII

ARTICULO VIII

Articles the growth , produce or Los artículos cultivados, pro- guIamyp.orts from Para-

manufacture of the Republic of ducidos o manufacturados en la

Paraguay, enumerated and de- República del Paraguay, enumerascribed in Schedule II annexed to dos y descritos en la Planilla II

Post, p. 2714.

this Agreement and made an in- anexa a este Convenio , del cual

tegral part thereof, shall, on their forma parte integrante, al ser

importation into the United States importados en los Estados Unidos of America, be exempt from ordi- de América, estarán exentos de nary customs duties in excess of derechos aduaneros ordinarios su-

those set forth and provided for periores a los estipulados y pre-

in the said Schedule , subject to vistos en dicha Planilla, con sujethe conditions therein set out. ción a las condiciones establecidas

The said articles shall also be en la misma. Dichos artículos

exempt from all other duties, estarán también exentos de todo

taxes , fees, charges or exactions, otro derecho aduanero, impuesto ,

imposed on or in connection with tasa, carga o gravamen impuesto

importation, in excess of those a la importación o en relación con imposed on the day of the signa- ella, que excediere a los que ya se

ture of this Agreement or required impongan en la fecha de la firma

to be imposed thereafter under de este Convenio o a aquéllos cuya

2698

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

laws of the United States America in force on that day.

of imposición ulterior estipulen las leyes de los Estados Unidos de América en vigor en esa fecha.

ARTICLE IX

ARTICULO IX

Imposition of charges on imports.

The provisions of Articles VII

Las disposiciones de los Artí-

and VIII of this Agreement shall culos VII y VIII de este Convenio

not prevent the Government of no impedirán al Gobierno de los the United States of America or Estados Unidos de América o al

the Government of the Republic Gobierno de la República del Para-

of Paraguay from imposing at any guay imponer , en cualquier mo-

time on the importation of any mento, a la importación de cual-

article a charge equivalent to an quier artículo un gravamen equi-

internal tax imposed in respect of valente a un impuesto interno que

a like domestic article or in respect se aplique a un articulo nacional

of a commodity from which the similar, o a un producto con el cual

imported article has been manu- el artículo importado ha sido

factured or produced in whole or manufacturado o producido en su

in part.

totalidad o en parte.

ARTICLE X

ARTICULO X

Assessment of ad

valorem rates.

In respect of articles the growth, Con respecto a los artículos

produce or manufacture of the cultivados , producidos o manufacUnited States of America or of turados en los Estados Unidos de

Post, pp. 2706, 2714.

the Republic of Paraguay enumer- América o en la República del ated and described in Schedules I Paraguay, enumerados y descritos and II , respectively, imported into en las Planillas I y II , respectivathe other country, on which ad mente, importados al otro país, valorem rates of duty, or duties sobre los cuales se apliquen o based upon or regulated in any pueden aplicarse derechos ad valomanner by value, are or may be rem, o derechos basados o reguassessed, the general principles lados en cualquier forma por su applicable in the respective coun- valor, los principios generales que tries for determining dutiable se apliquen en los países respecvalue and converting currencies tivos para la determinación del shall not be altered so as to impair valor sujeto a derecho y para la the value of any of the concessions conversión de monedas no deberán provided for in this Agreement. ser alterados de manera que menos-
caben el valor de cualquier con-

cesión prevista en este Convenio.

ARTICLE XI

ARTICULO XI

Nonimposition of quantitative regula-
tSicohnesduloens. articles in

1. No prohibition , restriction or any other form of quantitative regulation shall be imposed by the

1. Ninguna prohibición, restricción o cualquier otra forma alguna de regulación cuantitativa podrá

Government of the Republic of ser impuesta por el Gobierno de la Paraguay on the importation, República del Paraguay a la

sale, distribution or use of any importación, venta, distribución o article the growth, produce or uso de cualquier artículo cultivado ,

61 STAT.] PARAGUAY-RECIPROCAL TRADE- SEPT. 12, 1946

2699

manufacture of the United States producido o manufacturado en los of America enumerated and de- Estados Unidos de América, enumescribed in Schedule I, or by the rado y descrito en la Planilla I, o Government of the United States por el Gobierno de los Estados of America on the importation, Unidos de América a la importa-

Post, p. 2706.

sale, distribution or use of any ción, venta, distribución o uso de article the growth, produce or cualquier artículo cultivado, promanufacture of the Republic of ducido o manufacturado en la

Paraguay enumerated and de- República del Paraguay, enume-

scribed in Schedule II.

rado y descrito en la Planilla II.

2. The foregoing provision shall 2. La disposición que antecede

Post, p. 2714. Exception.

not prevent the Government of no impedirá al Gobierno de los the United States of America or Estados Unidos de América o al

the Government of the Republic Gobierno de la República del

of Paraguay from imposing quan- Paraguay imponer regulaciones titative regulations in whatever cuantitativas en cualquier forma form on the importation or sale a la importación o venta de cual-

of any article in conjunction with quier artículo conjuntamente con governmental measures or meas- medidas gubernativas o con mediures under governmental author- das bajo la autoridad gubernativa

ity operating to regulate or control que operen para regir o controlar the production, market supply, la producción, el abastecimiento quality or prices of like domestic del mercado , la calidad o los articles, or tending to increase the precios de artículos nacionales

labor costs of production of such análogos , o tendientes a aumentar
articles, or to maintain the ex- el costo de la mano de obra de la
change value of the currency of producción de tales artículos , o a Notice toothergov.
the country. Whenever the Gov- mantener el valor de cambio de ernment.
ernment of either country pro- la moneda nacional. Cuando el
poses to impose or to alter sub- Gobierno de cualquiera de los

stantially any quantitative reg- dos países propusiere imponer ulation authorized by this para- o modificar sustancialmente cualgraph, it shall give notice thereof quier regulación cuantitativa auin writing to the other Govern- torizada por este párrafo , dará ment and shall afford such other aviso de ello por escrito al otro

Government an opportunity to Gobierno y proporcionará a éste
consult with it in respect of the la oportunidad de consultarle resRight to take pro-
proposed action ; and if agreement pecto a la acción proyectada ; y posed action, etc.
with respect thereto is not reached si no se llegare a un acuerdo con
the Government which proposes respecto a ello , el Gobierno que
to take such action shall, never- proponga tomar tal acción estará, theless , be free to do so and sin embargo, en libertad de llevarla

the other Government shall be a cabo y el otro Gobierno estará free within thirty days after such en libertad, dentro de treinta action is taken to terminate this días después de tomada tal acción ,

Agreement in whole or in part on de dar por terminado este Con-

thirty days' written notice.

venio en su totalidad o en parte,

mediante un aviso previo de

treinta días por escrito.

2700

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ARTICLE XII

ARTICULO XII

Withdrawal or mod- 1. If, as a result of unforeseen 1. Si , como resultado de aconteification of concession.
developments and of the conces- cimientos imprevistos y de la

sion granted on any article enu- concesión otorgada a cualquier merated and described in the artículo enumerado y descrito en

Post, pp. 2706, 2714. Schedules annexed to this Agree- las Planillas anexas a este Con-

ment, such article is being im- venio , tal artículo se esté imporported in such increased quantities tando en cantidades tan crecidas

and under such conditions as to y en condiciones tales que amena-

cause or threaten serious injury to cen u ocasionen serios perjuicios a

domestic producers of like or los productores nacionales de ar-

similar articles, the Government tículos iguales o similares, el

of either country shall be free to Gobierno de cualquiera de los dos

withdraw the concession , in whole países estará en libertad de retirar

or in part, or to modify it to the en todo o en parte la concesión, o

extent and for such time as may de modificarla en la medida y por

be necessary to prevent such in- el tiempo que sea necesario para

finPdriongclaanmdatdietoenrmio-f jury. Accordingly, if the Presi- evitar tales perjuicios . Por lo

nation.

dent of the United States of tanto , si el Presidente de los

America finds as a fact that im- Estados Unidos de América en-

Post, p. 2714.

ports of any article enumerated cuentra que de hecho las imporand described in Schedule II are taciones de cualesquiera de los entering the United States of artículos enumerados y descritos America under the circumstances en la Planilla II se están efecspecified in the preceding sentence, tuando en los Estados Unidos de he shall determine whether the América en las circunstancias prewithdrawal, in whole or in part , of vistas en la frase precedente, the concession with regard to the decidirá si es necesario para evitar article, or any modification of the tal perjuicio el retiro en todo o en concession, by the imposition of parte de la concesión relativa al quantitative regulations or other- artículo , o cualquier modificación wise, is necessary to prevent such a dicha concesión mediante el

Post, p. 2706.

injury, and he shall , if he finds that establecimiento de reglamentathe public interest will be served ciones cuantitativas o por otras thereby, proclaim such finding and medidas, y si encuentra que los determination, and on and after intereses públicos se benefician con the effective date specified in such ello, proclamará dichos hechos y proclamation, and so long as such resoluciones, y a partir de la fecha proclamation remains in effect, señalada en la proclama para su imports of the article into the vigencia, y durante el tiempo que United States of America shall be ésta permanezca en vigor , las subject to the customs treatment importaciones del artículo en los so determined to be necessary to Estados Unidos de América queprevent such injury. Similarly, darán sujetas al tratamiento aduaif the Government of the Republic nal así determinado por necesario of Paraguay finds as a fact that para evitar dicho perjuicio . Igualany article enumerated and de- mente, si el Gobierno de la scribed in Schedule I is being im- República del Paraguay encuentra ported into the Republic of Para- que de hecho cualquier artículo

61 STAT. ] PARAGUAY-RECIPROCAL TRADE- SEPT. 12, 1946

2701

guay under the circumstances enumerado y descrito en la Pla-

specified, it may, if it finds that nilla I está importándose en la

the public interest will be served República del Paraguay bajo las

thereby, withdraw in whole or in circunstancias mencionadas, podrá,

part the concession with regard to si encuentra que los intereses

the article, or modify the con- públicos se benefician con ello ,

cession by the imposition of quan- retirar en todo o en parte la conce-

titative regulations or otherwise, sión relativa al artículo , o modificar

to the extent and for such time as dicha concesión por medio del

may be necessary to prevent such establecimiento de reglamenta-

injury.

ciones cuantitativas o por otros

medios, en la medida y por el
tiempo que sea necesario para evitar tal perjuicio .
Notice to other gov2. Before the Government of 2. El Gobierno de cualquiera de ernment.
either country shall withdraw or los dos países , antes de retirar o
modify a concession pursuant to modificar una concesión de acuerdo
the provisions of paragraph 1 of con las disposiciones del inciso 1 de

this Article , it shall give notice in este Artículo , dará al otro Gobierno writing to the Government of the aviso por escrito, y con toda la other country as far in advance as anticipación posible, y le pro-

may be practicable and shall porcionará la oportunidad de opiafford such other Government an nar con respecto a la acción

opportunity to consult with it in propuesta ; y si no se llegare a un Right to take pro-
respect of the proposed action ; and acuerdo, el Gobierno que se pro- posed action , etc.
if agreement with respect thereto ponga tomar tal acción quedará, is not reached the Government no obstante, en libertad de hacerlo
which proposes to take such action y el otro Gobierno quedará en
shall, nevertheless, be free to do so libertad , dentro de un término de
and the other Government shall be treinta días después de la fecha en

free within thirty days after such que se tome tal acción, de dar por action is taken to terminate this terminado este Convenio en todo o

Agreement in whole or in part on en parte, previo aviso por escrito

thirty days' written notice.

con treinta días de anticipación.

ARTICLE XIII

ARTICULO XIII

1. The Government of the

1. El Gobierno de los Estados

Establishment of Commission.

United States of America and the Unidos de América y el Gobierno

Government of the Republic of de la República del Paraguay

Paraguay agree to consult to the convienen en consultarse en la

fullest possible extent in regard to forma más amplia posible con

all matters affecting the operation respecto a todas las cuestiones que

of the present Agreement. In afecten la aplicación del presente

order to facilitate such consulta- Convenio. Con el fin de facilitar

tion, a Commission consisting of tal consulta se creará una Comi-

representatives of each Govern- sión compuesta por representantes ment shall be established to study de cada Gobierno para que estudie the operation of the Agreement, to la aplicación del Convenio, haga make recommendations regarding recomendaciones referentes al

the fulfillment of the provisions of cumplimiento de las disposiciones

2702

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

the Agreement , and to consider del Convenio y considere las otras

such other matters as may be sub- cuestiones que le sean sometidas

Adjustment of measures impairing
objects of agreement.

mitted to it by the two Governments .
2. If the Government of the United States of America or the

por los dos Gobiernos .
2. Si el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América o el Gobierno

Government of the Republic of de la República del Paraguay con-

Paraguay should consider that any sidera que cualquier medida adop-

measure adopted by the other tada por el otro Gobierno, aun-

Government, even though it does que no esté en conflicto con los not conflict with the terms of this términos de este Convenio , tiene

Agreement, has the effect of nulli- el efecto de anular o menoscabar fying or impairing any object of cualquier finalidad del Convenio,

the Agreement, such other Gov- dicho otro Gobierno prestará beernment shall give sympathetic névola consideración a las repre-

consideration to such written rep- sentaciones o proposiciones escriresentations or proposals as may tas que le puedan ser presentadas be made with a view to effecting a con el fin de lograr un arreglo

mutually satisfactory adjustment mutuo y satisfactorio sobre el

of the matter.

asunto.

ARTICLE XIV

ARTICULO XIV

Application of agreement to respective customs terri-
tories.

1. The provisions of this Agreement relating to the treatment to
be accorded by the United States

1. Las disposiciones de este Convenio relativas al tratamiento
que han de conceder los Estados

of America and the Republic of Unidos de América y la República

Paraguay, respectively, to the com- del Paraguay, respectivamente, al

merce of the other country shall comercio del otro país , se aplica-

apply to the respective customs rán a los territorios aduaneros territories of the two countries. respectivos de los dos países.

Nonapplication to Panama Canal Zone.

2. Furthermore, the provisions

2. Además , las disposiciones de

of this Agreement relating to most- este Convenio relativas al tra-

favored-nation treatment shall ap- tamiento de la nación más favore-

ply to all territory under the cida se aplicarán a todo el terrisovereignty or authority of the torio bajo la soberanía o autoridad United States of America or the de los Estados Unidos de Améri-

Republic of Paraguay, except that ca o la República del Paraguay,

they shall not apply to the Panama pero no se aplicarán a la Zona del

Canal Zone.

Canal de Panamá.

ARTICLE XV

ARTICULO XV

Advantages accorded to adjacent
countries, etc.

1. The advantages now ac- 1. Las ventajas concedidas en corded or which may hereafter be la actualidad o que en adelante accorded by the United States of sean concedidas por los Estados

America or the Republic of Para- Unidos de América o por la Repú-

guay to adjacent countries in blica del Paraguay a los países order to facilitate frontier traffic, limítrofes con objeto de facilitar and advantages accorded by virtue el tráfico de frontera , y las venof a customs union to which either tajas concedidas en virtud de una country may become a party, shall unión aduanera en la cual cual-

61 STAT.] PARAGUAY-RECIPROCAL TRADE- SEPT. 12, 1946

2703

be excepted from the operation of quiera de los dos países llegue a

this Agreement.

ser parte, quedarán exceptuadas

de los efectos de este Convenio.

2. The advantages now accorded 2. Las ventajas concedidas en

or which may hereafter be ac- la actualidad o que en adelante corded by the United States of sean concedidas por los Estados America, its territories or posses- Unidos de América, sus territorios

sions or the Panama Canal Zone o posesiones , o la Zona del Canal

to one another or to the Republic de Panamá, entre sí, o a la Repúof Cuba shall be excepted from the blica de Cuba, quedarán excep-

operation of this Agreement . The tuadas de los efectos de este Con-

provisions of this paragraph shall venio . Las disposiciones de este

continue to apply in respect of any párrafo continuarán aplicándose

advantages now or hereafter ac- con respecto a cualesquiera venta-

corded by the United States of jas concedidas en la actualidad o

America, its territories or posses- que en adelante se concedan entre

sions or the Panama Canal Zone sí los Estados Unidos de América,

to one another, irrespective of any sus territorios o posesiones , o la

change in the political status of Zona del Canal de Panamá, inde-

any of the territories sions of the United America .

or posses- pendientemente de cualquier camStates of bio en el estado político de cual-
quiera de los territorios o posesiones de los Estados Unidos de

América .

ARTICLE XVI

ARTICULO XVI

Adoption or enforce1. Nothing in this Agreement 1. Ninguna disposición de este ment of certain meas-
ures. shall be construed to prevent the Convenio deberá interpretarse en

adoption or enforcement of meas- el sentido de que impide la adop-

ures

ción o el cumplimiento de medidas

(a) imposed on moral or human- (a) impuestas para fines morales

itarian grounds ;

o humanitarios ;

(b) designed to protect human, animal or plant life or health ;
(c) relating to prison -made goods ;
(d) relating to the enforcement

(b) destinadas a proteger la vida o la salud humana, animal o vegetal ;
(c) relativas a los artículos fabricados en las cárceles ;
(d ) relativas al cumplimiento

of police or revenue laws ;

de leyes de policía o de renta pública ;

(e) relating to the importation (e) relativas a la importación o

or exportation of gold or

exportación de oro o

silver ; (f) relating to the control of

plata ; (f) relativas al control de la

the export, sale for export, or transit of arms, am-

exportación, venta para la exportación , o tránsito

munition, or implements of war, and, in exceptional circumstances , all other military supplies ;

de armas, municiones o material de guerra, y, en circunstancias excepcionales, de todos los demás

suministros militares ;

2704

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

(g) relating to neutrality ;

(g) relativas a la neutralidad ;

(h) relating to public security, (h) relativas a la seguridad pú-

or imposed for the protection of the country's

blica, o impuestas para la protección de los intere-

essential interests in time of war or other national emergency .

ses esenciales del país en tiempo de guerra u otra emergencia nacional.

2. The provisions of this Agree- 2. Queda entendido que las dis-

ment relating to the sale , taxation posiciones de este Convenio rela-

or use of imported articles within tivas a la venta, la tributación o

the United States of America el uso artículos importados dentro

understood to be subject de los Estados Unidos de América

to the constitutional limitations están sujetas a las limitaciones

on the authority of the Federal constitucionales sobre la autori-

Government .

dad del Gobierno Federal.

ARTICLE XVII

ARTICULO XVII

Proclamation.

1. This Agreement shall be pro- 1. Este Convenio será procla-

claimed by the President of the mado por el Presidente de los

United States of America and Estados Unidos de América y se shall be made effective in the hará efectivo en la República del Republic of Paraguay in conform- Paraguay en conformidad con las

Entry into force.

ity with the laws of that country. leyes de este país. Entrará en It shall enter into force on the vigor a los treinta días de la fecha

thirtieth day following the day of de la proclamación por el Presithe proclamation thereof by the dente de los Estados Unidos de

Post, p. 2725.

President of the United States of América y publicación en la GaAmerica and publication thereof ceta Oficial de la República del in the Gaceta Oficial of the Repub- Paraguay, o , en el caso de que la

lic of Paraguay, or, should such proclamación y publicación fueran proclamation and publication take hechas en fechas distintas, a los place on different days, on the treinta días de la fecha de la

thirtieth day following the date of última de ellas, y, sujeto a las

Duration.

the later in time of such proclama- disposiciones del Artículo XI y tion or publication, and, subject Artículo XII , permanecerá en

Ante, pp. 2698, 2700.

to the provisions of Article XI vigor por un período de dos años. and Article XII , shall remain in force for a period of two years thereafter .
2. Unless six months before the 2. A no ser que seis meses antes

expiration of the aforesaid period de la terminación del precitado of two years the Government of plazo de dos años el Gobierno de the United States of America or los Estados Unidos de América o the Government of the Republic el Gobierno de la República del of Paraguay shall have given in Paraguay le haya notificado por writing to the other Government escrito al otro Gobierno su intennotice of intention to terminate ción de terminar este Convenio al this Agreement upon the expira- cumplirse el antedicho plazo , el

61 STAT. ] PARAGUAY-RECIPROCAL TRADE- SEPT. 12, 1946

2705

tion of the aforesaid period, the Convenio seguirá en vigor después Agreement shall remain in force de tal período, sujeto a las disthereafter, subject to the provi- posiciones del Artículo XI y Artí sions of Article XI and Article culo XII , hasta seis meses después XII, until six months from the de la fecha en que cualquiera de los date on which notice of intention Gobiernos haya notificado su into terminate it shall have been tención de terminarlo . given by either Government.

Ante, pp. 2698, 2700.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the re- EN FE DE LO CUAL los respectivos

spective Plenipotentiaries sign this Plenipotenciarios firman este Con-

Agreement and affix their seals hereto .
DONE in duplicate, in the Eng-

venio y aplican en él sus sellos . HECHO en dos ejemplares, en los

Authentic languages.

lish and Spanish languages, both idiomas inglés y español, ambos

authentic, in the City of Asunción auténticos , en la Ciudad de Asun-

this twelfth day of September, ción , a los doce días del mes de

1946 .

septiembre de mil novecientos

cuarenta y seis.

For the President of the United States of America: Por el Presidente de los Estados Unidos de América:
WILLARD L. BEAULAC

[ SEAL ]

For the President of the Republic of Paraguay: Por el Presidente de la República del Paraguay:
M A SOLER

[ SEAL]

2706

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Paraguayan Tariff
Paragraph Number

SCHEDULE I Description ofArticle

Duties (In Guara

Unit

nies or ad valorem)

Basic

Duty Surtax

355

43

Prunes in general

100 L.K.

10.00 11%

55

Fruits and berries dried or desiccated, 100 G.K.

8.00 11 %

not elsewhere specified, for food

Ex- 60 Ex- 63 154 156
255 261

Nuts, in the shell : Walnuts
Raisins : Seedless
Tobacco :
(a) In cigarettes Lubricating oils for machinery and
vehicles in general, including grease, of whatever origin, composition or mixture, not elsewhere specified : Oil Grease Turpentine Varnishes, driers, and gumlac, prepared, including wood stains Note: No article classified under
paragraph 261 will pay, without taking into account the surtax, a duty less than, ad valorem

G.K. G.K. Thousand
100 G.K. 100 G.K. 100 G.K. G.K.

0. 13 11% 0. 15 11% 5. 73 11%

9. 55 8.02 7. 16 0.30

11% 11% 11% 11%

22% 11%

283

Toilet colors , eyebrow and eyelash L.K.

pencils, lipsticks and rouge, depilatory preparations, nail polish and

color ; powdered sheets for the dress-

ing table, and in general all cosmetics

not specified, perfumed or not

3.82 11 %

286

Shaving soap, in paste, solid, powdered, L.K.

cream, liquid, or any other form

290

Toilet soap not elsewhere specified, in L.K.

paste, cream, solid , liquid , or powdered form Note: No article classified under
paragraph 290 will pay, without

taking into account the surtax, a duty less than, ad valorem

292

Paste, powder, soap, and any prepara- L.K.

tion not specified , for dental cleaning

and hygiene, perfumed or not

Note: Nothing in this Agreement shall

prevent the application to articles

enumerated and described in paragraphs 283, 286, 290, and 292 of the

provisions of the following Notes

which appear in Section " E" of Cus-

toms Tariff Law No. 667 of Septem-

ber 27, 1924:

1. 43 11% 0.95 11% 33% 11%
1. 43 11%

61 STAT. ] PARAGUAY-RECIPROCAL TRADE-SEPT. 12, 1946

Número del Párrafo del Arancel de Aduanas del
Paraguay

PLANILLA I Descripción del Artículo

Unidad

Derechos (en guaraníes o ad valorem)
AdiAforo cional

3335

43 55 Ex- 60 Ex-63 154 156
255 261
283
286 290
292

Ciruelas pasas en general Frutas y bayas secas o desecadas, no
previstas en otra parte, para la alimentación Nueces, con cáscara: Nogales Pasas de uva: Sin semilla Tabaco: (a) En cigarrillos Aceites lubrificantes para maquinarias
y vehículos en general, incluso grasa, de cualquier orígen, composición o mezcla, no previstos en otra parte: Aceite Grasa Aguarrás Barnices, secantes, y goma laca, preparados, incluso tintes para madera Nota: Ningún artículo clasificado
según el párrafo 261 , pagará, sin tenerse en cuenta el derecho adi-
cional, un derecho menor de, ad valorem
Colores para el tocador, lápices para colorear las cejas y pestañas, carmín para los labios y mejillas, preparaciones depilatorias, preparaciones para bruñir o colorear las uñas ; hojas empolvadas para el tocador, y en general todos los cosméticos no especificados, todos los perfumados o no
Jabón de afeitar, en pasta, sólido, en polvo, crema, líquido o en cualquier otra forma
Jabón de tocador no previsto en otra parte, sean en forma de pasta, crema, sólido, líquido o en polvo
Nota: Ningún artículo clasificado según el párrafo 290, pagará, sin tenerse en cuenta el derecho adicional, un derecho menor de, ad valorem
Pasta, polvo, jabón, y cualquier preparación no especificada, para la limpieza e higiene dentífrica, perfumada o no
Nota: Nada de lo estipulado en este Convenio impedirá la aplicación a los artículos enumerados y descritos en los párrafos 283, 286, 290 y 292 de las disposiciones de las Notas que siguen, las cuales aparecen en la Sección "E" de la Ley N. 667 de Tarifa y Arancel de Aduanas del 27 de septiembre de 1924:

100 K. L. 100 K.B. K.B. K.B. Mil
100 K.B. 100 K.B. 100 K.B. K.B.
K.L.
K.L. K.L.
K.L.

10.00 8. 00

11 % 11%

0. 13 11% 0. 15 11% 5. 73 11%

9. 55 8. 02 7. 16 0.30

11% 11% 11 % 11%

22% 11%

3. 82 11%

1. 43 11% 0.95 11% 33% 11% 1. 43 11%

2707

2708

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. SCHEDULE I-Continued

Paraguayan Tariff
Paragraph Number

Description ofArticle

Duties (In Guara-

Unit

nies or ad valorem)

Basic

Duty Surtax

"Note (XI)-Any article classified under paragraphs 278 to 280 inclusive, 282 to 284 inclusive, 286, 289 to 296 inclusive, and 298 to 300 inclusive, if imported in flasks, bottles , boxes, tins, jars, or other immediate containers other than those regularly used for retail sale, or if packed without any part of the inner or outer container used for retail sale, will be subject to a surcharge of 100% ofthe specified duty. "Note (XII)-If extracts of scent, toilet water, toilet soap , or toilet powder are imported in an individual box or case, or if similar combinations are imported in an individual box or case, joint duties shall be charged at the highest rate corresponding to any one of the articles so combined."

356

Colophony rosin, Burgundy pitch, 100 G. K.

0.72 11%

vegetable tar and pitch

376

All other mineral, chemical and phar-

7% 11%

maceutical products, compounded or

not, not elsewhere specified, including pharmaceutical specialties and

alkaloids, in any pharmaceutical form

533

Horseshoe nails, of iron

100 G. K.

8.00 11 %

543

Axes, hatchets and adzes, with or with- L. K.

0. 10 11%

out handles

546

Horseshoes, of iron

100 G. K.

4. 00 11%

666

Typewriter ribbons

Dozen

2. 29 11%

667

Mechanical coin counters ; cash registers ;

11% 11%

calculating machines ; bookkeeping

machines ; parts of the foregoing

675

Typewriters, covers for same, and parts

16.5% 11%

690

Storage batteries, and parts or elements

for same

694

Wireless installations and parts, for

telegraphy, telephony, telephotography, radio direction , and similar

apparatus, intended for the trans-

mission, application or amplification

of electric current

11% 11% 14% 11%

61 STAT.]

PARAGUAY- RECIPROCAL TRADE- SEPT. 12, 1946 PLANILLA I-Continuación

Número del Párrafo del Arancel de Aduanas del
Paraguay

Descripción del Artículo

Unidad

Derechos (en guara-
níes o ad valorem) Adi-
Aforo cional

"Nota (XI)-Cualquiera de los artículos clasificados en los párrafos 278 al

280, inclusives, 282 al 284, inclusives,

286, 289 al 296, inclusives, y 298 al

300 inclusives, si fueren importados

en frascos, botellas, cajas, cajitas,

latas, potes, u otros envases inmedia-

tos, que no sean los que regular-

mente se emplean para ser puestos a

la venta al detalle , o si en su emba-

laje cualquier parte del envase interior o exterior con que se vende al

detalle, quedará sujeto a un recargo

de 100 % sobre el derecho específico.

"Nota(XII)-Si se importan en una sola

cajita o estuche, extracto de olor,

agua de tocador, jabón de tocador, y

polvos de tocador, o si en una sola

cajita o estuche se importan combina-

ciones semejantes, adeudarán en

conjunto derechos según la clasificación más alta que corresponda a

cualquiera de los artículos así com-

binados . "

356

Resina colofonia, pez de Borgoña, brea 100 K.B.

y alquitrán vegetal

376

Todos los demás productos minerales,

químicos y farmacéuticos, compuestos

o no, no previstos en otra parte,

inclusos las especialidades farmacéu-

ticas y los alcaloides, en cualquier

forma farmacéutica

533

Clavos de herradura, de hierro

100 K.B.

543

Hachas, hachitas y azuelas con o sin K.L.

cabo

546

Herraduras, de hierro

100 K.B.

666

Cintas para máquinas de escribir

Docena

667

Contadores mecánicos de efectivo ;

cajas registradoras; máquinas de computar; máquinas para teneduría

de libros ; piezas sueltas de todas éstas

675

Máquinas de escribir, tapas para las

mismas, y piezas sueltas de ellas

690

Baterías acumuladoras y partes o ele-

mentos para las mismas

694

Instalaciones inalámbricas y partes de

ellas, para telegrafía, telefonía, tele-

fotografía, dirección inalámbrica, y semejantes, siempre que estén destinadas a la transmisión , aplicación o

ampliación de la corriente eléctrica 95347° 49-PT. III- 28

0.72 11% 7% 11%

8. 00 0. 10

11 % 11 %

4. 00 2. 29 11%

11% 11% 11 %

16.5% 11% 11% 11% 14% 11%

2709

2710

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I-Continued

Paraguayan Tariff
Paragraph Number

Description of Article

Duties (In Guara-

Unit

nies or ad valorem)

Basic

Duty Surtax

Note: It is understood that, with regard to radio receivers, the duties agreed upon shall apply only to those which contain up to and including five tubes.

702

Electric batteries in general and their L.K.

elements, of metal, carbon, or any other material

Note: No article classified under

paragraph 702 will pay, without

taking into account the surtax, a

duty less than, ad valorem

0.10 11 % 14% 11 %

703

Telephones and their accessories except

14% 11 %

those elsewhere provided for

710

Passengerautomobiles , passengerbusses 100 N.K.

14.32 11 %

and omnibusses , with steam , explo-

sion or internal combustion or elec-

tric motors, including motors for same and in general automotive vehicles and trucks and trailers for

trucks or automobile tractors with a

load capacity of more than 3 tons, complete or not , new or used Plus ad valorem

11 %

Note: No article or manufacture classified under paragraph 710 will pay, without taking into account the complementary duty or the surtax, a duty less than , ad valorem
Passenger busses with a load capacity of less than 3 tons Note: No passenger bus classified under the preceding paragraph shall pay, without taking into account the surtax, a duty less than, ad valorem

100 N.K.

30% 11%
14. 32 11% 22% 11%

716

Automobile trucks for the transporta-

tion of goods, including tank trucks ,

with steam , explosion or internal

combustion, or electric motors, com-

plete or not, new or used, with a

load capacity not exceeding 3 tons,

and spare parts or totally unas-

sembled parts, not elsewhere specified, for all automotive vehicles

740

Spare wheels for passenger automobiles, L.K.

mounted with tires or not, even

though entering with the automo-

biles for which they are intended as

spares

11% 11% 0.53 11%

61 STAT.] PARAGUAY- RECIPROCAL TRADE- SEPT. 12, 1946

Número del Párrafo del Arancel de Aduanas del
Paraguay

PLANILLA I-Continuación

Descripción del Artículo

Unidad

Derechos (en guaraníes o ad valorem)
AdiAforo cional

Nota: Queda entendido que en

cuanto a los receptores los derechos convencionados se aplican solamente a los aparatos que contienen hasta cinco válvulas inclusive.

702

Pilas eléctricas en general y elementos K.L.

para las mismas, sean de metal, car-

0. 10 11%

bón, o cualquier otro material

Nota: Ningún artículo clasificado

14% 11%

según el párrafo 702 pagará, sin tenerse en cuenta el derecho adi-

cional, un derecho menor de, ad valorem

703

Teléfonos y accesorios de ellos, excepto

14% 11%

los previstos en otra parte

710

Automóviles de pasajeros, guaguas y 100 K.N.

14. 32 11%

ómnibus de pasajeros, con motores a

vapor, de explosión o de combustión

interna o eléctricos, inclusive motores

para los mismos y en general autovehículos y zorras y wagones de camión o tractor automóvil cuya

capacidad de carga exceda de 3 toneladas, completos o no, nuevos O usados

Más ad valorem

11 %

Nota: Ningún artículo o manufactura clasificados según el párrafo 710 pagará, sin tenerse en cuenta el de-

30% 11%

recho complementario o el derecho adicional, un derecho menor de, ad valorem

Omnibus de pasajeros cuya capacidad 100 K.N. de carga sea menor de 3 toneladas

14. 32 11%

Nota: Ningún ómnibus clasificado se-

22% 11%

gún el párrafo anterior pagará, sin tenerse en cuenta el derecho adicio-

nal, un derecho menor de, ad va-

lorem

716

Camiones automóviles para el trans-

11% 11%

porte de carga, sean de tanque o no, con motores a vapor, de explosión o combustión interna o eléctricos, com-

pletos o no, nuevos o usados , cuya

capacidad de carga no exceda de 3

toneladas, y piezas sueltas o partes totalmente desmontadas, no previs-

tas en otra parte, de todo autovehículo

740

Ruedas de repuesto para automóviles K.L.

de pasajeros, con O sin llantas

0.53 11%

puestas, aunque vengan con los

automóviles de los cuales forman

parte de repuesto

2711

2712

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 Stat. SCHEDULE I-Continued

Paraguayan Tariff
Paragraph Number

Description of Article

Duties (In Guara-

Unit

nies or ad valorem)

Basic

Duty Surtax

743

Automotive tractors and parts for

same

780

Automatic refrigerators, of wood or any G.K.

other material, of any system , for the

preservation of foods, refrigeration of

beverages and similar uses, and their

parts and accessories

872 1173

Paper called hygienic , for water-closets Disks, cylinders , or other means for re-
producing sound, for phonographs and talking machines , in blank

L.K.

Ex- 1175

Dictating machines and parts and accessories therefor, for the purpose of recording and reproducing acoustically and electrically, conversations, conferences, and correspondence Note: This paragraph refers exclusively to dictating machines in general , and excludes phonographs in general, talking machines or apparatus, or sound reproducers , and their parts not specifically provided for.

1186

Needles for phonographs and talking L.K. machines in general, of any material Plus ad valorem

Free 11% 0.10 11%

0.06 11%

11% 11%

19% 11%

0.48 11% 5.5%

61 STAT.] PARAGUAY-RECIPROCAL TRADE-SEPT. 12, 1946 PLANILLA I-Continuación

Número del Párrafo del Arancel de Aduanas del
Paraguay

Descripción del Artículo

Unidad

Derechos (en guara
níes o ad valorem) Adi-
Aforo cional

743 780 872 1173 Ex-1175
1186

Tractores automóviles y partes de los mismos
Refrigeradoras automáticas, de madera o de cualquier otro material, de cualquier sistema, para la conservación de comestibles, refrigeración de bebidas y para usos análogos, y sus piezas y accesorios
Papel llamado higiénico, para inodoros Discos, cilindros, u otros medios para
reproducción de sonido, para fonógrafos y máquinas parlantes, en blanco
Máquinas para dictar y piezas y accesorios para las mismas, para hacer impresiones y reproducir acústica y eléctricamente, conversaciones, conferencias y correspondencia Nota: Este párrafo se entiende exclusivamente para máquinas para dictar en general, con exclusión de fonógrafos en general, máquinas y aparatos parlantes, o reproductores de sonidos, y partes de ellos no previsto especialmente.
Púas para fonógrafos y máquinas parlantes en general, de cualquier material Más ad valorem

K.B. K.L.
K.L.

Libre 11% 0. 10 11%

0.06 11%

11% 11%

19% 11%

0.48 11% 5.5%

2713

2714

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. SCHEDULE II

NOTE : The provisions of this Schedule shall be construed and

given the same effect, and the application of collateral provisions of

the customs laws of the United States of America to the provisions of this Schedule shall be determined , in so far as may be practicable , as

if each provision of this Schedule appeared respectively in the statutory

Continuance inforce
of separate or additional duties.

provision noted in the column at the left of the respective descriptions of articles .
In the case of any article enumerated in this Schedule, which is subject on the day of the signature of this Agreement to any additional

or separate ordinary customs duty, whether or not imposed under the

statutory provision noted in the column at the left of the respec-

tive description of the article, such separate or additional duty shall

continue in force, subject to any reduction indicated in this Schedule

or hereafter provided for, until terminated in accordance with law, but shall not be increased .

46 Stat . 590. 19 U. S. C. 1001 et seq.

United States Tariff Act of 1930
Paragraph

Description of Article

Rate ofDuty

35

Maté, natural and uncompounded, but ad- 5 % ad valorem

vanced in value or condition by shredding,

grinding, chipping, crushing, or any other process or treatment whatever beyond that

essential to proper packing and the preven-

tion of decay or deterioration pending manufacture, not containing alcohol

38

Extracts, dyeing and tanning, not containing

alcohol :

Quebracho

72 % ad valorem

Urunday (if on the effective date of the 72 % ad valorem

proclamation of this Agreement it is, or shall thereafter be, held by compe-

tent administrative or judicial authority to be dutiable under paragraph 38, Tariff Act of 1930)

58

Oils, distilled or essential, not containing

alcohol, and not specially provided for : Guaiac wood oil

12 % ad valorem

Essence of guayacan (Caesalpinia melano- 12½% % ad valorem carpa criseb)

701

Tallow

4¢ per lb.

705

Extract of meat, including fluid

7½¢ per lb.

706

Meats, prepared or preserved, not specially 3 per lb., but not

provided for (except meat pastes other than liver pastes, packed in air-tight containers

less than 20 % ad valorem

weighing with their contents not more than

3 ounces each)

802

Rum (including caña paraguaya) , in con- $2.50 per proof gallon

tainers holding each 1 gallon or less

888

335

61 STAT.]

PARAGUAY- RECIPROCAL TRADE- SEPT. 12, 1946 PLANILLA II

NOTA: Las disposiciones de esta Planilla serán interpretadas y tendrán la misma validez, y la aplicación de las disposiciones colaterales de las leyes aduaneras de los Estados Unidos de América a las disposiciones de esta Planilla será determinada, hasta donde fuere factible, como si cada disposición de esta Planilla apareciese respectivamente en la disposición de la ley anotada en la columna de la izquierda de las respectivas descripciones de artículos.
En el caso de cualquier artículo enumerado en esta Planilla que esté sujeto en el día de la firma de este Convenio a cualquier derecho aduanero ordinario adicional o distinto, impuesto o no bajo la disposición de la ley anotada en la columna a la izquierda de la respectiva descripción del artículo, continuará estándolo, sujeto a la reducción indicada en esta Planilla o que en adelante se estipule, hasta que sea dejado sin efecto de conformidad con la ley, pero dicho derecho no será aumentado .

Ley Arancelaria de los Estados Unidos de 1930 Párrafo

Descripción del Artículo

Tipo de Derecho

Yerba maté, natural y no compuesta, pero 5% ad valorem

cuyo valor o calidad haya sido mejorado por

el cortado, la molienda, el picado , el macha-

cado u otro procedimiento o tratamiento

que no sea el indispensable para el envase

propiamente dicho o para evitar el deterioro antes de su elaboración , que no con-

tenga alcohol

38

Extractos para teñir y curtir que no contengan

alcohol :

Quebracho

7 % ad valorem

Urundey (si en la fecha efectiva de este 72 % ad valorem

Convenio, o a partir de ella, las autoridades administrativas o judiciales com-

petentes lo consideran sujeto a im-

puestos de acuerdo con el párrafo 38 de

la Ley Arancelaria de 1930)

58

Aceites, destilados o esenciales, que no conten-

gan alcohol , no mencionados expresamente

en otra partida: Aceite de guayaco o guayacán

122% % ad valorem

Esencia de guayacán (Caesalpinia melano- 12 % ad valorem

carpa criseb)

701

Sebo

¼¢ por lb.

705

Extracto de carne, inclusive extractos flúidos 7½¢ por lb.

706

Carnes preparadas o conservadas, no men- 3 por lb. pero no

cionadas expresamente en otra partida (excepto pastas de carne que no sean pastas de

menos de 20% ad valorem

hígado, en envases herméticos y que pesen con sus contenidos no más de 3 onzas cada

uno)

802

Ron (inclusive caña paraguaya) , en recipientes $2.50 por galón de

con capacidad de un galón o menos cada uno prueba

2715

2716

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. SCHEDULE II-Continued

United States Tariff Act of 1930
Paragraph

Description of Article

Rate ofDuty

1530 (a)

Hides and skins of cattle of the bovine species (except hides and skins of the India water buffalo imported to be used in the manufacture of rawhide articles) , raw or uncured, or dried, salted, or pickled

5% ad valorem

1558 1602 1625

Articles manufactured , in whole or in part, not specially provided for : Urunday extract if not classifiable under paragraph 38, Tariff Act of 1930

10 % ad valorem

Maté, natural and uncompounded and in a crude state, not advanced in value or condition by shredding, grinding, chipping, crushing, or any other process or treatment whatever beyond that essential to proper packing and the prevention of decay or deterioration pending manufacture , not containing alcohol
Blood, dried, not specially provided for

Free Free

1627

Bones: Crude, steamed, or ground ; bone dust, Free bone meal, and bone ash ; and animal carbon suitable only for fertilizing purposes

1670

Dyeing or tanning materials, whether crude or advanced in value or condition by shredding, grinding, chipping, crushing, or any similar process, not containing alcohol : Quebracho wood Bark of curupay (Piptadenia rigida Benth . )

Free Free

1681

Furs and fur skins, not specially provided for, undressed :
Fox (other than silver or black fox) Otter Ocelot Wildcat Nutria Jaguar

Free Free Free Free Free Free

1685 1688

Tankage of a grade used chiefly for fertilizers, or chiefly as an ingredient in the manufacture of fertilizers
Hair of horse and cattle (including calf) , cleaned or uncleaned , drawn or undrawn, but unmanufactured , not specially provided for: Body hair Other

Free
Free Free

61 STAT. ]

PARAGUAY- RECIPROCAL TRADE- SEPT. 12, 1946 PLANILLA II-Continuación

Ley Arancelaria de los Estados Unidos de 1930
Párrafo

Descripción del Artículo

Tipo de Derecho

1530 (a) 1558 1602
1625 1627 1670
1681
1685 1688

Cueros y pieles de ganado de la especie bovina (exceptuando cueros y pieles de búfalo acuático de la India que sean importados para emplearse en la fabricación de artículos
de cuero crudo) , curados o no, secados, salados o conservados (pickled) Artículos manufacturados, total o parcialmente, no especificados:
Extracto de urundey, si no está clasificado de acuerdo con el párrafo 38 de la Ley Arancelaria de 1930
Yerba maté, natural y no compuesta, no elaborada, y cuyo valor o calidad no haya sido mejorado por el cortado, la molienda, el picado, el machacado u otro procedimiento o tratamiento que no sea el indispensable para el envase propiamente dicho o para evitar el deterioro antes de su elaboración , que no contenga alcohol
Sangre seca, no mencionada expresamente en otra partida
Huesos: en bruto, sometidos al vapor o molidos ; polvo, harina y ceniza de huesos ; y carbón animal apto solamente para fines fertilizantes
Materiales para teñir o curtir, ya sea en bruto o mejorados en valor o calidad por el cortado, la molienda, el picado, el machacado, o por un procedimiento similar, que no contenga alcohol: Madera de quebracho Corteza de curupay (Piptadenia rigida Benth .)
Pieles y cueros de pieles, no mencionados expresamente en otra partida, no preparados: De zorro (que no sea zorro plateado o negro) Nutria de mar Ocelote Gato montés Nutria Jaguar
Guano de una clase que se utiliza principalmente para abono, o principalmente como ingrediente en la fabricación de abonos
Pelo de ganado equino y bovino (incluyendo ternero) , limpio o sucio, peinado o no, pero no manufacturado, no mencionado expresamente en otra partida: Pelo del cuerpo Otros

5% ad valorem
10 % ad valorem Libre
Libre Libre
Libre Libre
Libre Libre Libre Libre Libre Libre Libre
Libre Libre

2717

2718

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. SCHEDULE II-Continued

United States Tariff Act of 1930
Paragraph

Description ofArticle

Rate ofDuty

1693 1694 1731 1755 1765
1780

Hoofs, unmanufactured
Horns and parts of, including strips and tips, unmanufactured
Oils, distilled or essential, not containing alcohol : Pettigrain
Sausage casings, weasands, intestines, bladders, tendons, and integuments, not specially provided for
Skins of all kinds, raw, and hides not specially provided for: Deerskins
Carpincho Wild pig and wild hog Tankage, unfit for human consumption

Free Free
Free Free
Free Free Free Free

Internal Revenue Code Section

Description ofArticle

Import Tax

53 Stat. 267.

2491 (a) Tallow

26 U.S. C. §2491 (a).

1½¢ per lb.

61 STAT.]

PARAGUAY-RECIPROCAL TRADE - SEPT. 12, 1946 PLANILLA II-Continuación

Ley Arancelaria de los Estados
Unidos de1930 Párrafo

Descripción del Artículo

Tipo de Derecho

1693 1694

Cascos y pezuñas sin manufacturar

Libre

Astas y sus partes, incluso pedazos y puntas, sin Libre

manufacturar

1731

Aceites, destilados o esenciales, que no contengan alcohol:

1755 1765

De petit-grain

Libre

Tripas para embutidos, tráqueas, intestinos , Libre

vejigas, tendones y envolturas, no menciona-

das expresamente en otra partida

Pieles de toda clase, sin curtir, y cueros no men-

cionados expresamente en otra partida: De venado

Libre

1780

De carpincho De puercos y cerdos salvajes

Libre Libre

Residuos grasos (tankage) no aptos para con- Libre sumo humano

Artículo del Código de
Impuestos Internos

Descripción del Artículo

Gravamen a la Importación

2491 (a) Sebo

1½¢ por lb.

2719

2720

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
WHEREAS the said Agreement was supplemented by three exchanges of notes between the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Paraguay and the Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship of the Republic of Paraguay, which notes are word for word as follows: [']

REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR:

Asunción, Septiembre 12 de 1946.-

Tengo el honor de hacer referencia a las conversaciones entre los representantes de los Gobiernos de la República del Paraguay y de los Estados Unidos de América, en conexión con el Convenio Comercial firmado hoy, relativo a las relaciones comerciales entre el Paraguay y países limítrofes y el Uruguay.
Durante estas conversaciones , los representantes del Paraguay han señalado que aun cuando el Gobierno de la República del Paraguay está completamente de acuerdo con el principio expresado por los representantes del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, que el comercio internacional debería desarrollarse a lo máximo sobre una

base multilateral e incondicional de nación más favorecida, el Gobierno del Paraguay puede considerar necesario , en circunstancias especiales, que se otorguen ciertas preferencias tarifarias a los países limítrofes y al Uruguay.

Los representantes paraguayos indicaron, a este respecto, la recomendación adoptada por el Comité Consultivo Económico Financiero Interamericano, el 18 de septiembre de 1941 , de que tales preferencias de tarifas, para que sean instrumento para una sana promoción del comercio, habrían de efectuarse por medio de convenios comerciales que contengan reducciones o exenciones de tarifas ; que las partes contratantes se reservarán el derecho de reducir o eliminar los im-

puestos aduaneros sobre importaciones iguales de otros países ; y que semejantes preferencias tarifarias regionales no deberían de entorpecer amplios programas de reconstrucción económica que impliquen reducción de tarifas y la disminución o eliminación de tarifas y otras preferencias comerciales con el fin de dar el mayor impulso posible al comercio internacional, sobre una base multilateral e incondicional de nación más favorecida .

Las conversaciones a las cuales he aludido han revelado un entendimiento mutuo como sigue:
El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América no invocará las estipulaciones del Artículo I del Convenio Comercial firmado hoy con el fin de obtener el beneficio de preferencias tarifarias que respondan a los requisitos de la recomendación infrascripta, adoptada por el Comité Consultivo Económico Financiero Interamericano, que el Paraguay pueda otorgar a un país limítrofe o al Uruguay, quedando entendido que si tal preferencia fuera ofrecida por el Paraguay a un

1 [For translations of Paraguayan notes, see p. 2725.]

61 STAT.] PARAGUAY-RECIPROCAL TRADE- SEPT. 12, 1946
país no limítrofe, otro que el Uruguay, ésta se extendería inmediata e incondicionalmente a los Estados Unidos de América.
Reciba, Señor Embajador, las renovadas seguridades de mi más alta consideración.-
MIGUEL ANGEL SOLER
A Su Excelencia el Señor Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Hon . WILLARD L. BEAULAC. Presente.-
EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Asunción, September 12, 1946.
EXCELLENCY: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's
note of today's date with reference to the agreement reached between representatives of the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay, in connection with the Trade Agreement signed this day, regarding trade relations between Paraguay and contiguous countries and Uruguay.
In the course of these conversations the Paraguayan representatives have pointed out that although the Government of the Republic of Paraguay is completely in accord with the principle expressed by the representatives of the Government of the United States of America that international trade should be developed to the fullest possible extent on a multilateral unconditional most-favored-nation basis , the Government of Paraguay may consider it necessary, in special circumstances, to grant certain tariff preferences to contiguous countries and Uruguay.
The Paraguayan representatives have referred in this connection to the recommendation, adopted by the Inter-American Financial and Economic Advisory Committee on September 18 , 1941 , that any such tariff preferences, in order to be an instrument for sound promotion of trade, should be made effective through trade agreements embodying tariff reductions or exemptions ; that the parties to such agreements should reserve the right to reduce or eliminate the customs duties on like imports from other countries ; and that any such regional tariff preferences should not be permitted to stand in the way of any broad program of economic reconstruction involving the reduction of tariffs and the scaling down or elimination of tariff and other trade preferences with a view to the fullest possible development of international trade on a multilateral unconditional most-favored-nation basis.
I have the honor to confirm Your Excellency's statement of the understanding reached with reference to this matter as follows:
The Government of the United States of America will not invoke
the provisions of Article I of the Trade Agreement signed this day for the purpose of obtaining the benefit of tariff preferences meeting the requirements of the aforementioned recommendation

2721

2722

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
adopted by the Inter-American Financial and Economic Advisory Committee which Paraguay may accord to a contiguous country , or to Uruguay, it being understood that if any such preference should be extended by Paraguay to any noncontiguous country, other than Uruguay, it would be extended immediately and unconditionally to the United States of America .
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
WILLARD L. BEAULAC His Excellency
Doctor MIGUEL ANGEL SOLER, Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship.

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Asunción, September 12, 1946.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the discussions during the course of the

Ante, p. 2706.

negotiation of the Trade Agreement between our two Governments signed this day with regard to the duties and surtaxes to be imposed, upon importation into the Republic of Paraguay, on certain products of the United States of America included in Schedule I of the Agreement. The following is my understanding of the customs treatment

which will be accorded by the Republic of Paraguay to such articles the growth, produce or manufacture of the United States of America,

upon their importation into the Republic of Paraguay, so long as the

Trade Agreement remains in force :

Articles exemptfrom excess duty.

1. Each of the articles enumerated and described in List 1 of this

note shall be exempt from ordinary customs duty in excess of that set

forth and provided for in List 1 , so long as the 50 percent increase in

the basic rate of duty on such articles provided for by Decree No.

54,777 of November 22 , 1934 remains suspended.

Paraguayan Tariff
Paragraph Number

List 1 Description of Article

Duties Unit (in Guaranies)

154 Tobacco :

(a) In cigarettes

Thousand

283 Toilet colors, eyebrow and eyelash pencils , lipsticks L. K.

and rouge, depilatory preparations, nail polish and

color ; powdered sheets for the dressing table, and in

general all cosmetics not specified, perfumed or not

290 Toilet soap not elsewhere specified , in paste, cream, L. K.

solid, liquid, or powdered form Note: No article classified under paragraph 290 will

pay, without taking into account the surtax, a

duty less than, ad valorem

292 Paste, powder, soap, and any preparation not specified, L. K.

for dental cleaning and hygiene, perfumed or not

3. 82 2.55
0.64 22% 0.95

61 STAT.] PARAGUAY- RECIPROCAL TRADE- SEPT. 12, 1946

2723

2. Should the exemption from payment of the 50 percent increase

in duty be discontinued in the case of any article enumerated and described in List 1 of this note , such article shall thereafter be exempt

from ordinary customs duty in excess of that set forth and provided for in Schedule I of the Trade Agreement.
3. Each of the articles enumerated and described in List 2 of this

Ante, p. 2706.
Articles exempt from customs surtax.

note shall be exempt from customs surtax, so long as the customs

surtax on such article provided for by Decree-Law No. 19,360 of

August 12 , 1943 , as amended by Decree No. 914 of October 22 , 1943 ,

remains suspended .

Paraguayan Tariff
Paragraph Number

List 2 Description of Article

43 55 Ex-63

Prunes in general
Fruits and berries dried or desiccated, not elsewhere specified, for food Raisins :

Seedless

283

Toilet colors, eyebrow and eyelash pencils, lipsticks and rouge, depila-

tory preparations, nail polish and color ; powdered sheets for the dressing table, and in general all cosmetics not specified, perfumed or not

Discontinuance of 4. Should the exemption from the payment of customs surtax be exemption.

discontinued in the case of any article enumerated and described in

List 2 of this note, such article may thereafter be subject, notwithstanding the provisions of Article VII of the Trade Agreement, to a

Ante, p. 2696.

customs surtax not in excess of 11 percent ad valorem.

Accept, Excellency , the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .

WILLARD L. BEAULAC

His Excellency

Doctor MIGUEL ANGEL SOLER,

Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship.

REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Asunción, Septiembre 12 de 1946.-

Tengo el honor de acusar recibo de la nota de Vuestra Excelencia de esta fecha, relativa a las conversaciones durante el curso de la negociación del Convenio Comercial entre nuestros dos Gobiernos firmado

hoy, referente a los derechos y adicionales a ser impuestos , sobre ciertos productos de los Estados Unidos de América incluídos en la Planilla I del Convenio, a su importación en la República del Paraguay.
Tengo el honor de confirmar el entendimiento expresado en la nota de Vuestra Excelencia.

Sírvase aceptar, Señor Embajador, las renovadas seguridades de mi más alta consideración.-
MIGUEL ANGEL SOLER

A Su Excelencia el Señor Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Hon . WILLARD L. BEAULAC . Presente.-

2724 Ante, p. 2703.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

EXCELLENCY:

Asunción, September 12, 1946.

I have the honor to refer to conversations between the representatives of the Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Paraguay, in connection with the Trade Agreement signed this day, relating to the application of Paragraph 2 of Article XV of the Agreement to the Philippine Islands .
Since the inception of the negotiations which have thus culminated in the signature of the Agreement, my Government has intended that

advantages accorded to the Philippines should , regardless of any change in political status, be excepted from the operation of the Agreement. Accordingly, as a result of the conversations referred to, it is the understanding of my Government that the two Governments are in agreement that, notwithstanding the inauguration of an independent Philippine Government on July 4, 1946, Paragraph 2 of Article XV of the Trade Agreement will be interpreted to mean that advantages which the United States now or hereafter accords to the Republic of the Philippines are excepted from the operation of the Agreement .
Accept , Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
WILLARD L. BEAULAC

His Excellency Doctor MIGUEL ANGEL SOLER,

Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship.

REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Asunción, Septiembre 12 de 1946.-

Tengo el honor de acusar recibo de la nota de Vuestra Excelencia

fecha de hoy, y de confirmar el entendimiento de los dos Gobiernos expuesto en la misma de que el Párrafo 2 del Artículo XV del Convenio Comercial firmado hoy será interpretado significando que las ventajas

concedidas por los Estados Unidos en la actualidad o en adelante a la República de Filipinas, quedarán exceptuadas de los efectos del Convenio .

Reciba, Señor Embajador, las renovadas seguridades de mi más alta consideración.-
MIGUEL ANGEL SOLER

A Su Excelencia el Señor Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Hon . WILLARD L. BEAULAC. Presente.-

WHEREAS such modifications of existing duties and other import restrictions and such continuance of existing customs and excise treatment as are set forth and provided for in the said Agreement

61 STAT.] PARAGUAY-RECIPROCAL TRADE-SEPT. 12, 1946

2725

and the Schedules thereunto annexed , and the said notes, are required

and appropriate to carry out the said Agreement ; WHEREAS it is provided in article XVII , paragraph 1 , of the said

Ante, p. 2704.

Agreement that it shall enter into force on the thirtieth day following the day of the proclamation thereof by the President of the United

States of America and publication thereof in the Gaceta Oficial of

the Republic of Paraguay, or, should such proclamation and publica-

tion take place on different days, on the thirtieth day following the date of the later in time of such proclamation or publication ;
AND WHEREAS the said Agreement was published in the Gaceta Oficial of the Republic of Paraguay on February 26, 1947 ;
Now, THEREFORE, be it known that I, Harry S. Truman , President of the United States of America, acting under the authority conferred by the said section 350 (a) of the Tariff Act of 1930 , as amended , do hereby proclaim the said Trade Agreement, including the said Sched-

Publication in Gaceta Oficial.
Proclamation of agreement .
48 Stat. 943. 19 U.S. C. $ 1351 (a).

ules and notes, to the end that the same and every part thereof may

be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States of America, the citizens of the United States of America and all other persons subject to the jurisdiction thereof, on and after April 9 , 1947 , the thirtieth day following March 10, 1947 , the date of this my

Effective date.

proclamation of the said Agreement. IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused
the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed .

DONE at Washington this tenth day of March in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred forty-seven and of the
[SEAL] Independence of the United States of America the one hundred seventy-first. HARRY S TRUMAN

By the President: DEAN ACHESON Acting Secretary of State

TRANSLATIONS OF PARAGUAYAN NOTES
The Paraguayan Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship to the American Ambassador
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY Asunción, September 12, 1946.MR. AMBASSADOR : I have the honor to refer to the conversations between the representatives of the Governments of the Republic of Paraguay and the United States of America, in connection with the Trade Agreement signed this day, regarding trade relations between Paraguay and contiguous countries and Uruguay. In the course of these conversations, the Paraguayan representatives have pointed out that although the Government of the Republic of Paraguay is completely in accord with the principle expressed by the representatives of the Government of the United States of America, 95347° 49- PT. III- -29

2726

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
that international trade should be developed to the fullest extent possible on a multilateral unconditional most-favored-nation basis , the Government of Paraguay may consider it necessary , in special circumstances, to grant certain tariff preferences to contiguous countries and Uruguay.
The Paraguayan representatives have referred in this connection to the recommendation, adopted by the Inter-American Financial and Economic Advisory Committee on September 18, 1941 , that any such tariff preferences , in order to be an instrument for sound promotion of trade, should be made effective through trade agreements embodying tariff reductions or exemptions ; that the parties to such agreements will reserve the right to reduce or eliminate the customs duties on like imports from other countries ; and that any such regional tariff preferences should not stand in the way of any broad programs of economic reconstruction involving the reduction of tariffs and the scaling down or elimination of tariff and other trade preferences with a view to the fullest possible development of international trade on a multilateral unconditional most-favored-nation basis .
The conversations to which I have referred have disclosed a mutual understanding as follows:
The Government of the United States of America will not invoke the provisions of Article I of the Trade Agreement signed this day for the purpose of obtaining the benefit of tariff preferences meeting the requirements of the aforementioned recommendation , adopted by the Inter-American Financial and Economic Advisory Committee, which Paraguay may accord to a contiguous country or to Uruguay, it being understood that if any such preference should be offered by Paraguay to any noncontiguous country, other than Uruguay , it would be extended immediately and unconditionally to the United States of America.
Accept, Mr. Ambassador, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
MIGUEL ANGEL SOLER
His Excellency WILLARD L. BEAULAC, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, City.

REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY

MR. AMBASSADOR:

Asunción, September 12, 1946.-

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's note of today's date, concerning the discussions during the course of the negotiation of the Trade Agreement between our two Governments

signed this day with regard to the duties and surtaxes to be imposed, upon importation into the Republic of Paraguay, on certain products

61 STAT.] PARAGUAY- RECIPROCAL TRADE-SEPT. 12, 1946
of the United States of America included in Schedule I of the Agreement .
I have the honor to confirm the understanding set forth in Your Excellency's note.
Please accept, Mr. Ambassador, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
MIGUEL ANGEL SOLER His Excellency
WILLARD L. BEAULAC, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, City.

REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY

MR. AMBASSADOR :

Asunción, September 12, 1946.-

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's note of today's date, and to confirm the understanding of the two Governments set forth therein that Paragraph 2 of Article XV of the Trade Agreement signed today will be interpreted to mean that advantages which the United States now or hereafter accords to the

Republic of the Philippines are excepted from the operation of the Agreement.
Accept, Mr. Ambassador, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
MIGUEL ANGEL SOLER His Excellency
WILLARD L. BEAULAC , Ambassador Extraordinary and

Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, City.

2727

2728

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

February 29 and March 28, 1944
[T. I. A. S. 1602]

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom respecting claims for damages resulting from acts of armed forces personnel. Effected by exchange of notes signed at London February 29 and March 28, 1944; effective March 28, 1944.

The British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

No. W 3151/150/64.

FOREIGN OFFICE, S.W.1. 29th February, 1944.

Claims against members of U. S.
fKoirncegsdoinm.the United

YOUR EXCELLENCY, I have the honour to refer to Your Excellency's note No. 3295 [ ¹ ] of
the 19th January concerning the question of civil claims arising in tort against members of the United States forces in the United Kingdom.
2. As you are aware, His Majesty's Government have been reluctant

to accept responsibility for these claims since to do so would involve

payment by the British public of compensation for damage or injury sustained by the British public through the tortious acts of United Service personnel and might therefore seem undesirable on political grounds. They had therefore hoped that the arrangements previously made with His Majesty's Treasury Solicitor for the settlement of this matter could be maintained. They are, however, glad to note that the United States Government recognise that certain of the claims in

question raise political issues and that the proposals now put forward are subject to the reserve that His Majesty's Government are not to be required to assume responsibility for claims which they regard as politically objectionable. In the light of this and recognising that the United States Government regard claims against the personnel of the armed forces of the United States in the line of duty to be part

of the normal expenses of the United States forces, His Majesty's Government are prepared to undertake certain responsibilities for the settlement of these claims on behalf of the United States Government

as a reciprocal aid service. They assume that the United States Government for their part will be willing to make similar arrangements for the settlement of civil claims of like nature arising against mem-

Post, p. 2732.

bers of His Majesty's Forces in the United States in the course of their duties. His Majesty's Government are, in the circumstances, able to assume these responsibilities only within certain limitations and conditions which are summarised in an Annex attached to this Note. An

explanation of the more important of these will be given hereunder. 3. In the first place, His Majesty's Government find it necessary for
administrative reasons to distinguish between claims which are now
outstanding and claims which may arise in future. Your Excellency
1 ¹ [Not printed. ]

61 STAT.]

UNITED KINGDOM- CLAIMS- Feb. 29, 1944 Mar. 28, 1944

2729

will appreciate that the British Claims Commission is already occupied with the settlement and payment of claims brought against members of His Majesty's Forces and that to take over a large accumulation of similar claims against members of the United States Forces would not only seriously interfere with the present work of the Commission but would also delay still further the settlement of claims against members of the United States Forces. Although, therefore, His Majesty's Government desire to render the fullest possible assistance to the United States authorities in this matter they have reluctantly decided that they can assume responsibility for the settlement on behalf of the United States Government of certain classes of claims against personnel of the United States armed forces only if such claims arise out of incidents occurring on or after the 20th March, 1944. These claims will be additional to claims arising from training manoeuvres of the United States Forces and from certain damage resulting from the operation of United States aircraft for which His Majesty's Government have already undertaken such a responsibility. His Majesty's Government are prepared to undertake the payment but not, for the reasons given above, the examination and settlement of certain claims which are now outstanding. Their proposals for the rapid settlement of these outstanding claims are set out in paragraph 12 of this Note.
4. It will be convenient if I first make certain observations about claims arising out of incidents occurring on or after the 20th March 1944. As I have indicated , His Majesty's Government would wish to reserve the right to refuse consideration of any claim where there are in their opinion good political reasons for doing so. Furthermore, His Majesty's Government feel it to be essential that they should have complete discretion and liberty of action in the means adopted for dealing with any claim to which the proposed arrangements would apply. The departments of His Majesty's Government, who would be charged with the settlement of such claims, are now responsible for the settlement of claims brought against members of His Majesty's Forces and it will clearly be necessary for them to settle claims against members of both forces as far as possible upon the same principles, within the same limitations, and by the same methods. His Majesty's Government can for this reason only assume responsibility for the settlement of such claims against members of the United States Forces in the course of their military duties in the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland if these claims arise from

Post, p. 2731.

(a ) traffic accidents (b) accidental shootings (c) accidental explosions (d) loss of, or damage to, chattels in requisitioned premises
occupied by United States Forces under arrangements made by His Majesty's Government Departments. (e) certain other incidents ( e.g. practice gunfire, fires in billets, etc.) where they would in certain circumstances accept claims had members of His Majesty's Forces been involved.

2730

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
5. His Majesty's Government propose that the claims to which these arrangements will apply should normally be restricted to those brought by members of the public, although they might wish to include claims brought by members of His Majesty's Forces, including Dominion Forces and, in special circumstances, by members of the Allied Forces now in this country. Claims by United States nationals and members of the United States Forces would however be excluded for political reasons.
6. As I have stated , His Majesty's Government will wish to secure complete liberty of action in dealing with such claims. It is particularly necessary that this should be the case in determining
(a) whether any claim falls within one or other of the above categories, and
(b) whether or not, for the purposes of these arrangements (but for no other purpose ) , members of the United States Forces were acting in the course of their military duties at the time of any occurrence which might give rise to a claim.
Unless liberty of action is reserved on these matters , it will not be possible to secure equality as between claimants against members of His Majesty's Forces and claimants against members of the United States Forces under the proposed arrangements. In deciding this and other material questions His Majesty's Government will avail themselves of the procedure adopted for deciding similar questions in claims brought against members of His Majesty's Forces. The expenses incurred by His Majesty's Government in settling such claims , together with any sums payable by way of compensation, will be treated by them as a reciprocal aid service. Having regard to the statement in Your Excellency's note that the disposition of claims by the British authorities will be final , I assume that the United States Government will agree to the above stipulations and will accept without question any settlement however reached.
7. You should further be aware that it may be necessary for His Majesty's Government to reopen those claims which have not been admitted by the United States Claims Commission and in which no payment has been made.
8. I have noted with satisfaction your statement that the United States authorities would co-operate by assisting in the production of evidence and, so long as available in the United Kingdom, of parties and witnesses wherever military duties are not paramount. It will clearly be an essential condition of the proposed arrangements that the United States Army and Navy commands in this country should render to His Majesty's Government all facilities and assistance in their power to enable the appropriate agencies of His Majesty's Government to carry out the onerous task which would thereby fall upon them. I shall therefore be glad to receive from Your Excellency an assurance that these facilities and assistance will be forthcoming and that the necessary instructions will be given to all United States units to do all in their power to assist those officers of His Majesty's Gov-

61 STAT.]

Feb. 29, 1944
UNITED KINGDOM-CLAIMSMar. 28, 1944

ernment whose duty it will be to deal with the large number of claims against personnel of the United States Forces under the proposed arrangements .
9. I note with satisfaction that the United States Government are

willing to transfer to the British authorities all property damage claims against third parties, and they agree for their part that any sums recovered in this manner should be credited as offset receipts against reciprocal aid. The views of His Majesty's Government on this matter are elaborated in paragraph 7 of the Annex to this Note.
10. I am in agreement with your proposal that property losses of the respective Governments arising out of acts in which only personnel and equipment of the two Governments are involved should be borne where they fall, and I suggest that this Mutual Forbearance Agreement should be extended so as to cover claims of the respective Governments arising out of the death of or injury to their personnel and should be retroactive so as to cover any outstanding cases. It is also suggested that in connexion with traffic accident claims arising out of accidents in which both a British and United States vehicle are concerned, an equal proportion of the total cost of settlement of third party claims should be attributed to each Government, irrespective of the question of responsibility as between those Governments. Similar agreements for sharing claims in such circumstances have been made by His Majesty's Government with other Governments with the result that the difficulty of adjudicating upon the degree of responsibility of the respective drivers in individual cases is avoided.
11. Finally, in view of the strong political feeling to which this question may give rise, particularly among those who are involved in these incidents , I trust that the United States authorities will continue to take all possible steps, such as previous instruction as well as firm disciplinary action, to minimise the number of cases to which the procedure now proposed will apply.
12. I now turn to claims arising from incidents occurring before the 20th March, 1944. For the reasons stated in paragraph 2 of this note, His Majesty's Government consider that these claims must continue to be dealt with by the United States Claims Commission. In order to assist the rapid disposal of such claims, His Majesty's Government are prepared to agree that any sums paid on or after the 20th March arising out of incidents occurring before that date in settlement of any claims unpaid on that date shall be treated as a matter of reciprocal aid. They assume that this proposal will be satisfactory to the United States Government and trust that the United States Government will agree that the objections which the latter felt to the continuation of the Collision and other Agreements, which were negotiated on their behalf and the operation of which was suspended at their request in the summer of 1943, no longer apply. In this event these Collision and other Agreements can so far as possible forthwith be reinstated and this step would immediately and substantially reduce the number of outstanding claims. Claimants, with whom no settlement by other means is possible, shall have recourse in the Courts of

2731 Post, p. 2733.
Ante, p. 2728.

2732 Post, p. 2735.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
the United Kingdom in the ordinary way against the tort feasor, unless military duties render this impossible. His Majesty's Government will however except from these arrangements all claims exceeding the local financial powers of the United States Claims Commissions, and they themselves will take over at once the examination and final settlement of all such claims. The conditions which His Majesty's Government wish to attach to the proposals made in this paragraph are set out in paragraphs 13 to 15 of the Annex to this Note.
13. His Majesty's Government are of the opinion that it is essential for the good working of the arrangements proposed in this Note and Annex that particular care should be taken by the British and United States authorities to ensure the prompt settlement of claims arising out of incidents occurring before the 20th March, 1944, and they trust that in this matter as in the other matters previously mentioned they can count on the fullest possible co-operation of the United States authorities.
14. As Your Excellency is aware, I am most anxious to reach a conclusion of this matter with the least possible delay, and I shall be grateful if I may be informed at the earliest opportunity whether the assumptions and conditions upon which His Majesty's Government are prepared to agree to the request made by you are acceptable to the United States Government.
I have the honour to be, with the highest consideration, Your Excellency's obedient Servant, ANTHONY EDEN
His Excellency The Honourable JOHN GILBERT WINANT,
etc., etc., etc. , 1, Grosvenor Square, W.1.

ANNEX

Classes of claims.

The conditions upon which His Majesty's Government will take over under reciprocal aid certain classes of claims against members of the United States Forces arising out of their military duties in the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland.
1. The claims shall be limited to claims in respect of:-
(a) Traffic accidents (b) Accidental shootings (c ) Accidental explosions ( d ) Loss of or damage to chattels in requisitioned premises occu-
pied by United States forces under arrangements made with His Majesty's Government Departments (e) Other claims arising from e.g. practice gunfire, fires in billets etc. which His Majesty's Government would in certain cir-

61 STAT. ]

Feb. 29, 1944 UNITED KINGDOM CLAIMS- Mar. 28, 1944

2733

cumstances accept if members of His Majesty's Forces were involved.
Claims accepted by 2. These claims will be accepted by His Majesty's Government only U.K. if brought by members of the public and in certain circumstances by
members of His Majesty's Forces, including Dominion Forces and
of the Allied Forces in this country. Claims brought by United States citizens or members of the United States Forces will not be accepted.

A. Claims in the classes set out in paragraph 1 above and arising out

of incidents occurring on or after 20th March , 1944.

3. The British Claims Commission will decide in each case whether,

having regard to the liability which His Majesty's Government accept in the case of members of His Majesty's Forces, the claim is one which can be accepted under this arrangement.
4. All other claims, together with any claims in the above classes which His Majesty's Government find it impossible to take over for reasons of policy, shall be dealt with by the United States Claims Commission.

5. All claims accepted by His Majesty's Government for reciprocal aid shall be dealt with by the British Claims Commission, who shall have complete discretion and liberty of action to dispose of them on behalf of the United States Government by way of payment, compromise, settlement , legal proceedings or otherwise as they think fit. The United States Government will accept as final the result reached by the British Claims Commission and any sum payable as a result of action taken by the British Claims Commission shall be treated as reciprocal aid.
6. If the British Claims Commission decide that any claims shall be contested, the United States authorities will provide full facilities to the British Claims Commission to enable the matter to be disposed of by appropriate legal proceedings, and will supply the names of the United States personnel involved together with a retainer to the Treasury Solicitor to act on their behalf in the proceedings and to conduct, compromise or settle the proceedings in accordance with the

Contested claims.

complete discretion of the Treasury Solicitor. Estimates of dam-
7. The United States authorities will give to the British Claims age to U. S. military
Commission at the earliest possible time full particulars and estimates property.
of damage to United States military vehicles and property so that
claims in respect thereof may be made by the British Claims Com-
mission either by way of affirmative claim or counterclaim or for the purposes of any collision agreements. The United States authorities

will give to the Treasury Solicitor any authorisation necessary for this

purpose. 8. The United States authorities will retain complete control over
disciplinary action , and United States liaison officers will be appointed in order to facilitate the smooth working of the arrangements and to

Control by U. S. authorities over dis-
ciplinary action.

provide a channel of communication for British Claims Officers with United States units . The functions of the United States liaison officers will be

Functions of U. S. liaison officers.

2734

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

(a) to ensure prompt reference of cases, together with the material information, reports and statements of witnesses to the British Claims Commission ;
(b) to ensure that all information as to the cost of repairs and damage sustained by United States vehicles is provided in due time ;
(c) to secure the attendance of witnesses at the offices of the Treasury Solicitor or his agents and at Court where such attendance is practicable ;
(d) generally to give any assistance which the British Claims Commission may require in order to enable them to deal with any particular claim.

Witnesses , docu- 9. The British Claims Commission will use their best endeavours to ments, etc.
avoid any interference with the military duties of any witness or
defendant in the United States Armed Forces, but the United States

authorities will use their best endeavours to provide these witnesses and any other essential parties in this country where this is practicable, having regard to military exigencies. The United States authorities will make available to the British Claims Commission and the Treas-

ury Solicitor all relevant documents, for example, copies of proceed-

Correspondence .

ings of United States Courts of Enquiry and Courts Martial. 10. The United States will give instructions to all their Service

authorities not to enter into any correspondence with claimants or

their solicitors apart from the formal acknowledgments of letters.

Any correspondence should be immediately passed on through the

Government claims, restriction .
Post, p. 2878.

liaison officer, to the appropriate British Claims Officer. 11. ( i ) Neither Government shall make any claim against the
other in respect of any property loss or damage, or in respect of any

expenses or charges incurred as a result of the death of or injury to

their personnel arising out of an accident in which only personnel and

equipment of the respective Governments are concerned . This arrangement shall be retroactive in respect of any claims now outstanding.

Third party claims.

(ii) The cost of settling claims made by a third party as a result

of an accident involving both His Majesty's Government and a United States Government vehicle shall, irrespective of the question of respon-

sibility, be borne in equal shares provided-

(a) that so far as the driver of His Majesty's Government's vehicle

is concerned the claim is one for which His Majesty's Government would assume responsibility in the circumstances, and,

(b) that so far as the driver of the United States Government vehicle is concerned the claim falls within one of the categories covered

by the arrangement referred to above. Where third party claims fall to be shared equally between the two Governments under the arrange-

ment half of the cost of settling such claims would be treated as Reciprocal Aid.

Cooperation of U.S. authorities.

12. The United States Service authorities in the United Kingdom

will co-operate to the fullest extent to carry out the above-stated

conditions and arrangements and appropriate instructions will be

given to the various United States Service authorities concerned.

61 STAT.]

Feb. 29, 1944 UNITED KINGDOM-CLAIMS-
Mar. 28, 1944

2735

B. Similar Claims arising out of incidents occurring before 20th March, 1944.

13. Such of these claims as are unpaid on the 19th March, 1944 will

be examined and assessed by the United States Claims Commission. The necessary payments will be made by His Majesty's Government

Payments by U. K.

as a matter of reciprocal aid.

14. For the purposes of paragraph 13 above,

Reinstatement of (a) the Collision or other Agreements negotiated on behalf of the designated collision,
United States authorities by the Treasury Solicitor, which are now etc. , agreements.

suspended shall so far as possible be forthwith and retroactively reinstated ,
(b) claimants with whom no reasonable settlement by other means

Recourse in U. K. courts.

is possible, shall have recourse in the Courts of the United Kingdom in the ordinary way against the tortfeasor. In that event the United

States authorities will immediately transfer all papers material to the

claim in question to His Majesty's Treasury Solicitor through the channel of the British Claims Commission and will render all other

possible assistance to His Majesty's Treasury Solicitor by way of the production of witnesses etc. A similar procedure will so far as necessary be applied to all such cases when the claimant has obtained

a judgment in a United Kingdom Court which has remained unsatisfied .
15. In any case where it seems to the United States Claims Commission that the amount claimed is more than $5,000, the claim shall be transferred as soon as possible to the British Claims Commission for examination and assessment as well as for payment.

Claims over $5,000 .

C. General.

16. In order to facilitate the smooth transfer of the United States Claims work to the British Claims Commission , United States Claims Service will release immediately for employment by the British

Employment of U. S. personnel by
Bmriistsisohn.Claims Com-

Claims Commission such of their civilian clerical and typing staff

as are employed upon claims work at British rates of pay and whose

services are required by the British Claims Commission for the pur-

poses of settlement of the claims falling within the above categories.

The American Ambassador to the British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE

No. 3493.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA London, March 28, 1944.

SIR :

I have the honor to refer to your note of February 29, 1944 ( No.

W 3151/150/64 ) and to the annex thereto, concerning the question of civil claims arising in tort against personnel of the United States

Ante, pp. 2728, 2732.

2736

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

armed forces in the United Kingdom, and , under instructions from my

Government, to reply as follows :

Acceptance by U. S. The Government of the United States accepts the conditions and

limitations set forth in your note under reference and in the annex

thereto as applicable to claims arising out of acts of personnel of the

armed forces of the United States in line of duty which the British

Government has agreed to accept for settlement and payment, such payment to be credited to reciprocal aid. The United States Govern-

ment, for its part, agrees to settle and pay under Lend-Lease on a

reciprocal basis claims arising out of acts of members of the armed

Ante, p. 2730.

forces of Great Britain in the United States in line of duty. The War Department has agreed with reluctance to paragraph 7
of your note, concerning the reopening of claims in which payment

has been denied by the United States Claims Commission. I therefore venture to express the hope that the number of such claims which

Ante, p. 2733. "Retainer." Post, p. 2737.

the British authorities desire to reopen will be small and that every effort will be made not to extend the number of such cases.
The United States Government notes that paragraph 6 of the annex suggests that the United States authorities will supply "a retainer to the Treasury Solicitor" and assumes that "retainer" is here used in

Ante, p. 2734.

the sense of a power of attorney. I have the honor to suggest this clarification since " retainer" is commonly used in the United States to describe the fee paid to an attorney for retaining his services.
The United States Government understands paragraph 11 of the

annex as a waiver by it only of claims in its own behalf and not as a waiver of claims of its nationals in their own right on account of per-

Ante, p. 2735.

sonal injury, death or property losses. The United States Government agrees to paragraph 16 of the annex

in principle, but decisions as to the carrying out of the undertaking will have to be made by United States army and navy authorities in London.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration, JOHN G. WINANT

The Right Honorable ANTHONY EDEN, M.C. , M.P. ,

Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Foreign Office London, S.W.1.

The British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

No. W 5776/150/64

FOREIGN OFFICE, S.W.1. 1st May, 1944.

YOUR EXCELLENCY,

I have the honour to refer to Your Excellency's note No. 3493 of the 29th March, concerning the question of civil claims arising in

61 STAT.]

Feb. 29, 1944 UNITED KINGDOM-CLAIMS-
Mar. 28, 1944

2737

tort against members of the United States Forces in the United Kingdom .

2. I was most gratified to learn that the United States Government

are able to accept the conditions and limitations which I attached, in my note No. W 3151/150/64 of the 29th February and in the annex

Ante, pp. 2728, 2732.

thereto, to the acceptance by His Majesty's Government of responsibility for a settlement as a matter of reciprocal aid of a number of classes of such claims. I am further most grateful for your assur-

ance that the United States Government for their part will make similar arrangements for the settlement under Lend-Lease of such

claims arising out of the acts of His Majesty's Forces in the United

States in the course of their Military duties.

3. I am able to confirm the interpretation placed by the United States Government upon paragraphs 6 and 11 of the annex to my note of the 29th February. In stipulating in the former paragraph

Ante, pp. 2733, 2734, 2736.
"Retainer."

that the United States authorities should supply a retainer to the

Treasury Solicitor I have used the word " retainer" in the sense of

an authority to act on behalf of the defendant. The intention of the

latter paragraph is, as the United States Government assumes, that

claims should not be brought by one government against the other. It is not suggested that the claims of United States nationals in

their own right on account of personal injury, death, or property losses should be waived.

4. Your Excellency is no doubt aware that on receiving your note under reference, I announced in Parliament on the 30th March that a satisfactory solution to this problem had been reached. At the same time I circulated a written statement of the details of this

solution in the official report of Parliamentary debates, and I enclose ten copies of this statement for your information.

5. I shall be grateful if you will inform the United States Govern-

ment of the pleasure with which I have received their acceptance of the proposals made to them and of my satisfaction that it has been possible to reach a settlement of this matter.
I have the honour to, with the highest consideration, Your Excellency's obedient Servant,

(For the Secretary of State) E. E. CROWE.

His Excellency The Honourable JOHN G. WINANT,
etc. , etc., etc., 1, Grosvenor Square, W.1.

2738

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

January 9, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1603]

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting surplus property disposal operations . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Ottawa January 9, 1947; effective January 9, 1947.

The Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANADA

No. 3

OTTAWA, January 9, 1947

EXCELLENCY : I have the honour to refer to conversations held in 1944 between Mr.

Clayton, then United States Surplus War Property Administrator, and Mr. Carswell, then President of War Assets Corporation of Canada, relating to the disposal of surplus property owned by either of the two governments.

ertSyal. e of surplus prop- 2. It is my understanding that it has been agreed that the following arrangements should govern the sale of surplus property owned by the United States or Canada :

Issuance of certificate.

1. Save as hereinafter provided , the surplus disposal agencies of either country (United States and Canada ) will not :-
(a) knowingly sell or offer for sale any such surplus property intended for use and/or re- sale within the territory of the other country ;
(b) cause residents of the other country to be circularized or solicited concerning the sale of any such surplus property.
2. It is further agreed that in the case of the United States the appropriate disposal agency and in the case of Canada , War Assets Corporation , will, notwithstanding the foregoing, issue, on request, a certificate permitting to be done any of the matters which are set out in Para. 1 above, provided that such a certificate is given only for a purpose which is considered by the United States disposal agency or War Assets Corporation , whichever is concerned, as unlikely adversely to affect their disposal operations.
3. It is understood that any such certificate issued by War Assets Corporation will apply only to operations of that Corporation and is not to be construed in any way as a permit from any other Department of the Government of Canada should such a permit be otherwise required.

61 STAT. ] CANADA- SURPLUS PROPERTY DISPOSAL-JAN. 9, 1947

3. I shall be glad to have you inform me whether it is the understanding of your Government that the terms of the arrangements agreed to in the conversations are as above set forth. If so , it is sug-

gested that this note and your reply shall be regarded as placing on record the agreement of our two Governments in this matter.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
LB PEARSON

His Excellency, The United States Ambassador, United States Embassy, Ottawa.

for Secretary of State for External Affairs.

The American Ambassador to the Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE

No. 633 SIR :

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Ottawa, January 9, 1947

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note No. 3 of January 9, 1947 referring to conversations held in 1944 between Mr. Clayton, then United States Surplus War Property Administrator, and Mr. Carswell, then President of War Assets Corporation of Canada, relating to the disposal of surplus property owned by either of the two governments. You set forth therein your understanding of the arrangements agreed upon for the sale of surplus property owned by the United States and Canada.

It is the understanding of my Government that the terms of the

arrangements agreed to in the conversations are as set forth in your

note under reference, and my Government agrees to your suggestion

that your note and this note in reply shall be regarded as placing on record the agreement of our two Governments in this matter.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. RAY ATHERTON
The Right Honorable The Secretary of State for External Affairs, Ottawa.

2739

2740

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

SNeopvteemmbbeerr 93, , 1273, ,192493, [T. I. A. 8. 1604]

Italian military armistice, September 3, 1943; instrument of surrender of Italy, September 29, 1943; letter from General Eisenhower to Mar-
shal Badoglio, September 29, 1943; protocol of November 9, 1943; memorandum of agreement on the employment and disposition ofthe Italian fleet and mercantile marine, September 23, 1943; amendment to agreement with respect to the employment ofthe Italian navy, November 17, 1943; and statement of Admiral de Courten, November 17, 1943 .

Italian Military Armistice, September 3, 1943

FAIRFIELD CAMP SICILY
September 3, 1943

The following conditions of an Armistice are presented by

General Dwight D. Eisenhower, Commander-in- Chief of the Allied Forces,

acting by authority of the Governments of the United States and Great Britain and in the interest of the United Nations, and are ac-

cepted by

Marshal Pietro Badoglio

Head of the Italian Government

1. Immediate cessation of all hostile activity by the Italian armed forces.
2. Italy will use its best endeavors to deny, to the Germans, facilities that might be used against the United Nations.
3. All prisoners or internees of the United Nations to be immediately turned over to the Allied Commander in Chief, and none of these may now or at any time be evacuated to Germany.
4. Immediate transfer of the Italian Fleet and Italian aircraft to
such points as may be designated by the Allied Commander in Chief, with details of disarmament to be prescribed by him.
5. Italian merchant shipping may be requisitioned by the Allied Commander in Chief to meet the needs of his military-naval program.
6. Immediate surrender of Corsica and of all Italian territory, both islands and mainland , to the Allies, for such use as operational bases and other purposes as the Allies may see fit.
7. Immediate guarantee of the free use by the Allies of all airfields and naval ports in Italian territory, regardless of the rate of evacuation of the Italian territory by the German forces. These ports and fields to be protected by Italian armed forces until this function is taken over by the Allies.
8. Immediate withdrawal to Italy of Italian armed forces from all participation in the current war from whatever areas in which they may be now engaged.

Sept. 3, 23, 29, 1943 61 STAT.] ITALY-ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER- Nov. 9, 17, 1943

2741

9. Guarantee by the Italian Government that if necessary it will

employ all its available armed forces to insure prompt and exact compliance with all the provisions of this armistice.
10. The Commander in Chief of the Allied Forces reserves to him-
self the right to take any measure which in his opinion may be necessary for the protection of the interests of the Allied Forces for the

Rights of Commander in Chief of Allied Forces.

prosecution of the war, and the Italian Government binds itself to

take such administrative or other action as the Commander in Chief

may require, and in particular the Commander in Chief will establish

Allied Military Government over such parts of Italian territory as he may deem necessary in the military interests of the Allied Nations.
11. The Commander in Chief of the Allied Forces will have a full

right to impose measures of disarmament, demobilization, and demilitarization.

12. Other conditions of a political, economic and financial nature with which Italy will be bound to comply will be transmitted at a later date.

The conditions of the present Armistice will not be made public without prior approval of the Allied Commander in Chief. The

Official text.

English will be considered the official text.

Marshal Pietro Badoglio Head of Italian Government.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER, General , U. S. Army, Commander in Chief,
Allied Forces.

GuinzCeastelland Guiseppe Castellano
Brigadier General, attached to The Italian High Command
Present :

By WalterBluth ...
WALTER B. SMITH, Vajor General , U. S. Army,
Chief of Staff.

RT. HON. HAROLD MACMILLAN British Resident Minister, A.F.H.Q. ROBERT MURPHY Personal Representative of the President of the United States ROYER DICK Commodore, R.N. Chief of Staff to the C. in C. Med. LOWELL W. ROOKS Major General, U.S. Army Assistant Chief of Staff, G-3 A.F.H.Q. FRANCO MONTANARI Official Italian Interpreter BRIGADIER KENNETH STRONG Assistant Chief of Staff, G-3 A.F.H.Q.

95347° 49- PT. III- -30

2742

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Post, p. 2761.

INSTRUMENT OF SURRENDER OF ITALY

Post, p. 2761 ; ante, p. 2740.

Whereas in consequence of an armistice dated September 3rd, 1943 , between the United States and the United Kingdom Governments on the one hand and the Italian Government on the other hand, hos-

tilities were suspended between Italy and the United Nations on certain terms of a military nature ;

And whereas in addition to those terms it was also provided in the said Armistice that the Italian Government bound themselves to

comply with other conditions of a political, economic and financial nature to be transmitted later ;
And whereas it is convenient that the terms of a military nature and the said other conditions of a political, economic and financial

Terms for suspension of hostilities against Italy.
Post, p. 2761.

nature should without prejudice to the continued validity of the terms of the said Armistice of September 3rd, 1943, be comprised in a further instrument ;
The following together with the terms of the Armistice of September 3rd, 1943, are the terms on which the United States and United Kingdom Governments acting on behalf of the United Nations are prepared to suspend hostilities against Italy so long as their military operations against Germany and her Allies are not obstructed

and Italy does not assist these Powers in any way and complies with the requirements of these Governments.

Post, p. 2761.

These terms have been presented by GENERAL DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER, Commander-in-Chief, Allied Forces, duly authorised to that effect ;
And have been accepted by MARSHAL PIETRO BADOGLIO, Head of the Italian Government.

Post, p. 2761.

1.
(A) The Italian Land, Sea and Air Forces wherever located, hereby surrender unconditionally.
( B) Italian participation in the war in all Theaters will cease immediately. There will be no opposition to landings, movements or other operations of the Land, Sea and Air Forces of the United Nations. Accordingly, the Italian Supreme Command will order the immediate cessation of hostilities of any kind against the Forces of the United Nations and will direct the Italian Navy, Military and Air Force authorities in all Theaters to issue forthwith the appropriate instructions to those under their Command.

(C) The Italian Supreme Command will further order all Italian Naval, Military and Air Forces or authorities and personnel to refrain immediately from destruction of or damage to any real or personal property, whether public or private.
2. The Italian Supreme Command will give full information concerning the disposition and condition of all Italian Land, Sea and

Air Forces, wherever they are situated and of all such forces of Italy's Allies as are situated in Italian or Italian occupied territory.

61 STAT. ] ITALY- ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER- Sept. 3, 23, 29, 1943 Nov. 9, 17, 1943

2743

3. The Italian Supreme Command will take the necessary measures to secure airfields, port facilities, and all other installations

against seizure or attack by any of Italy's Allies. The Italian Supreme

Command will take the necessary measures to insure Law and Order, and to use its available armed forces to insure prompt and exact compliance with all the provisions of the present instrument. Subject to such use of Italian troops for the above purposes, as may be sanc-

tioned by the Allied Commander-in-Chief, all other Italian Land, Sea and Air Forces will proceed to and remain in their barracks, camps or ships pending directions from the United Nations as to

their future status and disposal. Exceptionally such Naval personnel shall proceed to shore establishments as the United Nations may direct.
4. Italian Land, Sea and Air Forces will within the periods to be laid down by the United Nations withdraw from all areas outside Italian territory notified to the Italian Government by the United

Withdrawal of Italian forces to areas spec-
tifiioends.by United Na

Nations and proceed to areas to be specified by the United Nations.

Such movement of Italian Land, Sea and Air Forces will be carried

out in conditions to be laid down by the United Nations and in accord-

ance with the orders to be issued by them. All Italian officials will

similarly leave the areas notified except any who may be permitted

to remain by the United Nations. Those permitted to remain will

comply with the instructions of the Allied Commander-in- Chief.

5. No requisitioning, seizures or other coercive measures shall be

effected by Italian Land, Sea and Air Forces or officials in regard to persons or property in the areas notified under Article 4.
6. The demobilization of Italian Land, Sea and Air Forces in

Demobilization .

excess of such establishments as shall be notified will take place as prescribed by the Allied Commander-in-Chief.
7. Italian warships of all descriptions, auxiliaries and transports will be assembled as directed in ports to be specified by the Allied Commander-in-Chief and will be dealt with as prescribed by the Allied Commander-in-Chief. ( Note. If at the date of the Armistice

Assembly of Italian warships, etc.

the whole of the Italian Fleet has been assembled in Allied ports , this article would run-"Italian warships of all descriptions, auxiliaries ,

and transports will remain until further notice in the ports where they

are at present assembled , and will be dealt with as prescribed by the Allied Commander-in- Chief.")
8. Italian aircraft of all kinds will not leave the ground or water or ships, except as directed by the Allied Commander-in-Chief.
9. Without prejudice to the provisions 14, 15 and 28 ( A ) and ( D ) below, all merchant ships, fishing or other craft of whatever flag, all

Italian aircraft.
Merchant ships in Italian waters, etc.

aircraft and inland transport of whatever nationality in Italian or

Italian-occupied territory or waters will , pending verification of their

identity and status, be prevented from leaving. 10. The Italian Supreme Command will make available all infor-
mation about naval, military and air devices, installations, and de-

Information, etc., to be made available by
Imtaanlidan. Supreme Com-

fences, about all transport and inter-communication systems estab-

lished by Italy or her allies on Italian territory or in the approaches

thereto, about minefields or other obstacles to movement by land, sea

2744

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

or air and such other particulars as the United Nations may require in

connection with the use of Italian bases, or with the operations , secur-

ity, or welfare of the United Nations Land, Sea or Air Forces. Italian

forces and equipment will be made available as required by the United Nations for the removal of the above mentioned obstacles.

Lists of war material; storage; disposal.

11. The Italian Government will furnish forthwith lists of quan-

tities of all war material showing the location of the same. Subject

to such use as the Allied Commander-in-Chief may make of it, the war

material will be placed in store under such control as he may direct.

Maintenance of facilities, etc.

The ultimate disposal of war material will be prescribed by the United Nations.
12. There will be no destruction of nor damage to nor except as authorized or directed by the United Nations any removal of war material, wireless, radio location or meteorological stations, railroad, port or other installations or in general, public or private utilities or property of any kind, wherever situated, and the necessary main-

Manufacture, etc. , ofwar material.

tenance and repair will be the responsibility of the Italian authorities.
13. The manufacture, production and construction of war material and its import, export and transit is prohibited , except as directed

by the United Nations. The Italian Government will comply with

any directions given by the United Nations for the manufacture, pro-

duction or construction and the import, export or transit of war material.

14.

Italian merchant ships, etc.

(A ) All Italian merchant shipping and fishing and other

craft, wherever they may be, and any constructed or completed during

the period of the present instrument will be made available in good repair and in seaworthy condition by the competent Italian authorities at such places and for such purposes and periods as the United Nations may prescribe. Transfer to enemy or neutral flags is prohibited. Crews will remain on board pending further instructions

regarding their continued employment or dispersal. Any existing options to repurchase or re-acquire or to resume control of Italian or former Italian vessels sold or otherwise transferred or chartered

during the war will forthwith be exercised and the above provisions

Inland transport and port equipment.

will apply to all such vessels and their crews. (B) All Italian inland transport and all port equipment will
be held at the disposal of the United Nations for such purposes as

they may direct.

United Nationsmerchant ships, etc., in

15. United Nations merchant ships, fishing and other craft in

Italian hands.

Italian hands wherever they may be ( including for this purpose those

of any country which has broken off diplomatic relations with Italy) whether or not the title has been transferred as the result of prize court proceedings or otherwise, will be surrendered to the United

Nations and will be assembled in ports to be specified by the United Nations for disposal as directed by them. The Italian Government will take all such steps as may be required to secure any necessary

61 STAT. ] ITALY-ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER Sept. 3, 23, 29, 1943 Nov. 9, 17, 1943

2745

transfers of title. Any neutral merchant ship, fishing or other craft under Italian operation or control will be assembled in the same man-
ner pending arrangements for their ultimate disposal. Any necessary repairs to any of the above mentioned vessels will be effected by the

Neutral merchant ships, etc.
Repairs.

Italian Government, if required , at their expense. The Italian Government will take the necessary measures to insure that the vessels

and their cargo are not damaged. 16. No radio or telecommunication installations or other forms
of intercommunication , shore or afloat, under Italian control whether

Intercommunica tion.

belonging to Italy or any nation other than the United Nations will

transmit until directions for the control of these installations have been

prescribed by the Allied Commander-in-Chief. The Italian authori-

ties will conform to such measures for control and censorship of press

and of other publications, of theatrical and cinematograph performances, of broadcasting, and also of all forms of intercommunication

as the Allied Commander-in-Chief may direct. The Allied Com-
mander-in-Chief may, at his discretion, take over radio, cable and
other communication stations. Use of territorial
17. The warships, auxiliaries, transports and merchant and other waters, etc., by U. N. vessels and aircraft in the service of the United Nations will have vessels and aircraft.

the right freely to use the territorial waters around and the air over Italian territory.
18. The forces of the United Nations will require to occupy certain parts of Italian territory. The territories or areas concerned will

Occupation of Italian territory by U. N.
forces.

from time to time be notified by the United Nations and all Italian

Land, Sea and Air Forces will thereupon withdraw from such terri-

tories or areas in accordance with the instructions issued by the Allied

Commander-in-Chief. The provisions of this article are without prejudice to those of article 4 above. The Italian Supreme Command

Ante, p. 2743.

will guarantee immediate use and access to the Allies of all airfields

and Naval ports in Italy under their control.

19. In the territories or areas referred to in article 18 all Naval,

Military and Air installations, power stations, oil refineries, public

utility services, all ports and harbors, all transport and all intercommunication installations, facilities and equipment and such other installations or facilities and all such stocks as may be required by

the United Nations will be made available in good condition by the competent Italian authorities with the personnel required for working them. The Italian Government will make available such other local

resources or services as the United Nations may require. 20. Without prejudice to the provisions of the present instru-
ment the United Nations will exercise all the rights of an occupying power throughout the territories or areas referred to in article 18,

the administration of which will be provided for by the issue of proclamations, orders or regulations. Personnel of the Italian administrative, judicial and public services will carry out their functions under the control of the Allied Commander-in-Chief unless otherwise

directed. 21. In addition to the rights in respect of occupied Italian terri-
tories described in articles 18 to 20,

Rights of U. N. in non-occupied Italian territory.

2746

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

(A) Members of the Land, Sea or Air Forces and officials of the United Nations will have the right of passage in or over non-
occupied Italian territory and will be afforded all the necessary facilities and assistance in performing their functions.
( B ) The Italian authorities will make available on nonoccupied Italian territory all transport facilities required by the United Nations including free transit for their war material and supplies, and will comply with instructions issued by the Allied Commander-in-Chief regarding the use and control of airfields, ports, shipping, inland transport systems and vehicles , intercommunication systems , power stations and public utility services, oil refineries , stocks and such other fuel and power supplies and means of producing same, as United Nations may specify, together with connected repair and construction facilities.

22. The Italian Government and people will abstain from all action detrimental to the interests of the United Nations and will

Italian currency.

carry out promptly and efficiently all orders given by the United Nations.
23. The Italian Government will make available such Italian cur-

rency as the United Nations may require. The Italian Government

will withdraw and redeem in Italian currency within such time limits

and on such terms as the United Nations may specify all holdings in

Italian territory of currencies issued by the United Nations during military operations or occupation and will hand over the currencies

buCsoinnetsrso,letco.f banks, withdrawn free of cost to the United Nations. The Italian Government will take such measures as may be required by the United Nations

for the control of banks and business in Italian territory , for the control of foreign exchange and foreign commercial and financial transactions

and for the regulation of trade and production and will comply with

any instructions issued by the United Nations regarding these and similar matters.

24. There shall be no financial, commercial or other intercourse with or dealings with or for the benefit of countries at war with any of the United Nations or territories occupied by such countries or any other foreign country except under authorisation of the Allied Commander-in-Chief or designated officials.
25.

Breaking of relations with countries at war with U. N.

(A) Relations with countries at war with any of the United Nations, or occupied by any such country, will be broken off. Italian diplomatic, consular and other officials and members of the Italian

Land, Sea and Air Forces accredited to or serving on missions with any such country or in any other territory specified by the United Nations

Regulations govern. ing communications.

will be recalled. Diplomatic and consular officials of such countries will be dealt with as the United Nations may prescribe.
(B ) The United Nations reserve the right to require the withdrawal of neutral diplomatic and consular officers from occupied

Italian territory and to prescribe and lay down regulations governing the procedure for the methods of communication between the Italian

Government and its representatives in neutral countries and regarding

Sept. 3, 23, 29, 1943 61 STAT. ] ITALY-ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER- Nov. 9, 17, 1943

2747

communications emanating from or destined for the representatives of neutral countries in Italian territory.
26. Italian subjects will pending further instructions be prevented from leaving Italian territory except as authorised by the Allied Com-

Italian subjects.

mander-in-Chief and will not in any event take service with any of the countries or in any of the territories referred to in article 25 (A) nor

will they proceed to any place for the purpose of undertaking work for
any such country. Those at present so serving or working will be recalled as directed by the Allied Commander-in-Chief.
Military personnel, 27. The Military, Naval and Air personnel and material and the etc., of hostile counmerchant shipping, fishing and other craft and the aircraft, vehicles try.
and other transport equipment of any country against which any of the United Nations is carrying on hostilities or which is occupied by any such country, remain liable to attack or seizure wherever found in or

over Italian territory or waters. 28.

(A) The warships, auxiliaries and transports of any such country or occupied country referred to in article 27 in Italian or

Italian-occupied ports and waters and the aircraft , vehicles and other transport equipment of such countries in or over Italian or Italian-

occupied territory will, pending further instructions, be prevented from leaving.
(B ) The Military, Naval and Air personnel and the civilian

Internment.

nationals of any such country or occupied country in Italian or Italian-

occupied territory will be prevented from leaving and will be interned pending further instructions.
(C) All property in Italian territory belonging to any such country or occupied country or its nationals will be impounded and kept in custody pending further instructions.
(D ) The Italian Government will comply with any instruc-
tions given by the Allied Commander- in-Chief concerning the intern-

Impounding of property .
Compliance of Italian Government with instructions.

ment, custody or subsequent disposal , utilisation or employment of

any of the above mentioned persons, vessels , aircraft, material or

property. 29. BENITO MUSSOLINI, his Chief Fascist associates and all per-
sons suspected of having committed war crimes or analogous offences

ofAwpaprrechriemnisniaolns,. etc., Post, p. 2761.

whose names appear on lists to be communicated by the United Na-

tions will forthwith be apprehended and surrendered into the hands

of the United Nations. Any instructions given by the United Na-
tions for this purpose will be complied with. 30. All Fascist organisations, including all branches of the Fascist cisDtiosrbgaanndiziantgioonfs,Featsc-.

Militia ( MVSN) , the Secret Police ( OVRA ) , all Fascist youth organisations will insofar as this is not already accomplished be disbanded in accordance with the directions of the Allied Commander-

in-Chief. The Italian Government will comply with all such further directions as the United Nations may give for abolition of Fascist institutions, the dismissal and internment of Fascist personnel, the control of Fascist funds, the suppression of Fascist ideology and teaching.

2748

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Rescinding of laws
involving racial, etc., discrimination.

31. All Italian laws involving discrimination on grounds of race, color, creed or political opinions will insofar as this is not already accomplished be rescinded , and persons detained on such grounds will , as directed by the United Nations, be released and relieved from all

legal disabilities to which they have been subjected. The Italian Government will comply with all such further directions as the Allied Commander-in-Chief may give for repeal of Fascist legislation and removal of any disabilities or prohibitions resulting therefrom.

32.

Prisoners of war, etc.

(A) Prisoners of war belonging to the forces of or specified

by the United Nations and any nationals of the United Nations, in-

cluding Abyssinian subjects, confined , interned, or otherwise under

restraint in Italian or Italian-occupied territory will not be removed

and will forthwith be handed over to representatives of the United

Nations or otherwise dealt with as the United Nations may direct.

Any removal during the period between the presentation and the

signature of the present instrument will be regarded as a breach of its terms.

(B) Persons of whatever nationality who have been placed under restriction, detention or sentence (including sentences in absentia ) on account of their dealings or sympathies with the United Nations will be released under the direction of the United Nations
and relieved from all legal disabilities to which they have subjected. (C) The Italian Government will take such steps as the
United Nations may direct to safeguard the persons of foreign nationals and property of foreign nationals and property of foreign states and nationals.

33.

Reparation, etc.

(A) The Italian Government will comply with such directions as the United Nations may prescribe regarding restitution,

Assets of state, etc.

Italian

deliveries, services or payments by way of reparation and payment of the costs of occupation during the period of the present instrument.
(B) The Italian Government will give to the Allied Commander-in-Chief such information as may be prescribed regarding the

assets, whether inside or outside Italian territory, of the Italian state,

the Bank of Italy, any Italian state or semi-state institutions or

Fascist organisations or residents in Italian territory and will not

dispose or allow the disposal, outside Italian territory of any such

assets except with the permission of the United Nations.

Disarmament, etc.

34. The Italian Government will carry out during the period of

the present instrument such measures of disarmament, demobilisation

and demilitarisation as may be prescribed by the Allied Commander-

in-Chief.

Information and documents.

35. The Italian Government will supply all information and pro-

vide all documents required by the United Nations. There shall be

61 STAT. ] ITALY-ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER Sept. 3, 28, 29, 1943 Nov. 9, 17, 1943

2749

no destruction or concealment of archives, records, plans or any other documents or information.
36. The Italian Government will take and enforce such legisla-

Legislation, etc.

tive and other measures as may be necessary for the execution of the

present instrument. Italian military and civil authorities will com-

ply with any instructions issued by the Allied Commander-in-Chief for the same purpose.
37. There will be appointed a Control Commission representative of the United Nations charged with regulating and executing this

Control Commis. sion

instrument under the orders and general directions of the Allied Commander- in - Chief.

38.

(A ) The term "United Nations" in the present instrument includes the Allied Commander-in-Chief, the Control Commission and

"United Nations."

any other authority which the United Nations may designate. ( B) The term "Allied Commander-in-Chief" in the present
instrument includes the Control Commission and such other officers

" Allied Com . mander - in -Chief . "

and representatives as the Commander-in-Chief may designate. 39. Reference to Italian Land, Sea and Air Forces in the present
instrument shall be deemed to include Fascist Militia and all such

Inclusion of Fascist Militia, etc., in Italian forces.

other military or para-military units, formations or bodies as the Allied Commander-in-Chief may prescribe.
40. The term "War Material" in the present instrument denotes all material specified in such lists or definitions as may from time to time be issued by the Control Commission.
41. The term "Italian Territory" includes all Italian colonies and dependencies and shall for the purposes of the present instrument (but without prejudice to the question of sovereignty) be deemed to include Albania. Provided however that except in such cases and to

"War Material." "Italian Territory."

such extent as the United Nations may direct the provisions of the present instrument shall not apply in or affect the administration of
any Italian colony or dependency already occupied by the United Nations or the rights or powers therein possessed or exercised by them.
42. The Italian Government will send a delegation to the Head- ItaRleiparneisnetnetraetstiso.n of

quarters of the Control Commission to represent Italian interests and to transmit the orders of the Control Commission to the competent Italian authorities.
43. The present instrument shall enter into force at once. It will remain in operation until superseded by any other arrangements or

Entry into force.

until the voting into force of the peace treaty with Italy. Denouncement; pu-
44. The present instrument may be denounced by the United nitive action.
Nations with immediate effect if Italian obligations thereunder are

not fulfilled or, as an alternative, the United Nations may penalize contravention of it by measures appropriate to the circumstances such as the extension of the areas of military occupation or air or other punitive action.

2750 Authentic text.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

The present instrument is drawn up in English and Italian, the English text being authentic, and in case of any dispute regarding its interpretation, the decision of the Control Commission will prevail.

Signed at Malta

on the 29 day of September, 1943.

Badaylig Marshal PIETRO BADOGLIO Head of the Italian Government

Swight landow DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
General, United States Army, Commander- in-Chief, Allied Force.

Sept. 3, 23, 29, 1943 61 STAT. ] ITALY-ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER- Nov. 9, 17, 1943
STRUMENTO D'ARRENDIMENTO DELL'ITALIA
Poiche in seguito ad un armistizio in data 3 settembre 1943, fra i Governi degli Stati Uniti e della Gran Bretagna da una parte e il Governo Italiano dall'altra , le ostilita sono state sospese fra l'Italia  le Nazioni Unite in base ad alcune condizioni di carattere militare ;
· poiche oltre queste condizioni , era stabilito in detto armistizio che il Governo Italiano si impegnava ad eseguire altre condizioni di carattere politico , economico e finanziario da trasmettere in seguito ;
e poiche opportuno che le condizioni di carattere militare  le suddette condizioni di carattere politico , economico e finanziario siano , senza menomare la validià delle condizioni del suddetto armistizio del 3 settembre 1943, comprese in un atto successivo;
Le seguenti , insieme con le condizioni dell'armistizio del 3 settembre 1943 , sono le condizioni in base a cui i Governi degli Stati Uniti e della Gran Bretagna , agendo per conto delle Nazioni Unite , sono disposti a sospendere le ostilità contro l'Italia sempre che le loro operazioni militari contro la Germania ed i suoi alleati non siano ostacolate e che l'Italia non aiuti queste Potenze in qualsiasi modo e eseguisca le richieste di questi Governi .
Queste condizioni sono state presentate dal GENERALE DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER, Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate , debitamenta autorizzato a tale effetto ;
E sono state accettate dal MARESCIALLO PIETRO BADOGLIO , Capo del Governo Italiano .
1.
(A) Le Forze Italiane di Terra , Mare e Aria , ovunque si trovino , a questo scopo si arrendono a discrezione.
(B) La partecipazione dell'Italia in guerra in qualsiasi zona deve cessare immediatamente . Non vi sarà opposizione agli sbarchi , movimenti ed altre operazioni in Terra, sul  Mare e nell'Aria delle forze delle Nazioni Unite . In conformita 11 Comando Supremo Italiano ordinera la cessazione immediata delle ostilità di qualunque genere contro le forze delle Nazioni Unitë ed impartira ordini alle autorita` Navali , Militari , ed Aeronautiche Italiane in tutti le zone di guerra di emanare immediatamente le istruzioni opportune ai loro comandi subordinati .
(C) Inoltre il Comando Supremo Italiano impartira alle forze Navali , Militari ed Aeronautiche nonche` alle autorita civili ed ai funzionari ordini di desistere immediatamente dalla distruzione o dal danneggiamento di qualsiasi proprietà reale o personale, sia pubblica che privata.

2751

2752

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

2. Il Comando Supremo Italiano fornira tutte le informazioni relative alla dislocazione ed alla situazione di tutte le forze armate italiane di Terra , di Mare , ed Aeree , ovunque si trovino, e di tutte le forze degli Alleati dell'Italia che si trovano in Italia od in territori occupati dall'Italia .
3. Il Comando Supremo Italiano prendera tutte le precauzioni necessarie per salvaguardare gli aerodromi , le installazioni portuarie e qualsiasi altri impianti contro cattura od attacoo da parte di qualsiasi alleato dell'Italia. Il Comando Supremo Italiano prendera tutte le disposizioni necessarie per salvaguardare l'ordine pubblico e per usare le forze armate disponibili per assicurare la pronta e precisa esecuzione del presente atto e di tutti i suoi provvedimenti . Fatta eccezione all'impiego di truppe italiane a secondo dello scopo che potrà essere sanzionato dal Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate , tutte le altre forze italiane di Terra , di Mare a di Aria rientreranno e rimarranno in caserna , negli accampamenti o sulle navi in attesa di istruzioni dalle Nazioni Unite per quanto riguarda il loro futuro stato e loro disposizioni definitive . In via eccezionale , il personale navale si trasferirà in quelle caserme navali che le Nazioni Unite indicheranno .
4. Le forze di Terra , Mare e Aeree , entro il termine che verra stabilito dalle Nazioni Unite , si ritireranno da tutti i territorio fuori dell'Italia che saranno notificati al Governo Italiano dalle Nazioni Unite e si trasferiranno in quelle zone ohe verranno indicate dalle Nazioni Unite . Questi movimenti delle forze di Terra , Mare ed Aeree verranno eseguiti secondo le istruzioni che verranno impartite dalle Nazioni Unite e d'accordo con gli ordini che verranno da esse emanati . Nello stesso modo , tutti i funzionari italiani lasceranno le zone notificate eccetto coloro ai quali verrà dato il permesso di rimanere da parte delle Nazioni Unite . Quelli ai quali verra concesso il permesso di rimanere si conformeranno alle istruzioni del Comando Supremo delle Forze Alleate .
5. Nessuna requisizione , appropriazione , od altra forma di costrizione potrà essere effettuata dalle forze italiane di Terra, Mare ed Aeree e da funzionari nei riguardi di persone o proprieta nelle zone specificate nel capoverso No. 4 .
6. La smobilitazione delle forze di Terra , Mare ed Aeree in eccesso al numero che verra notificato dovra seguire le norme stabilite dal Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate .
7. Le navi da guerra italiane, di tutte le categorie , ausiliarie e di trasporto saranno riunite , secondo gli ordini , nei porti che verranno indicati dal Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate , ed orni decisione In Merito a dette Navi Verrà presa dal Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate , ( Annotazione . Se alla data dell'Armistizio , l'intera flotta da guerra italiana sara' stata riunita nei porti alíeati , questo capoverso sarà come segue O "Le navi da guerra italiane di tutte le categorie ausiliarie e di trasporto, rimarranno fino ad ulteriori ordini nei porti dove sono attualmente radunate ed ogni decisione in merito ad esse verra presa dal Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate . " )
8. Gli aeroplani italiani di qualsiasi genere non decolleranno dalla Terra , dall'Acqua o dalle Navi senza previ ordini del Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate .

61 STAT. ] ITALY-ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER Sept. 3, 23, 2,91,9149343 Nov. 9, 17
9. Senza andar contro alle disposizioni dei capoversi 14, 15 e 28 (A) e ( D) che seguono, tutti le navi mercantili , da pesca ed altri navi sotto qualsiasi bandiera , tutti gli aeroplani , e mezzi di trasporto terrestri di qualunque nazionalita in territorio italiano od in territorio occupato dall'Italia od in aoque italiane dovranno , in attesa di verifica della loro identita posizione , essere impediti di partire .
10. 11 Comando Supremo Italiano fornir tutte le informa zioni relative ai mezzi navali , militari ed aerei , ad impianti e difese , ai trasporti e mezzi di communicazione costruiti dall'Italia o dai suoi Alleati nel territorio italiano o nelle vicinanze di esso , ai campi di mine od altre ostruzioni ai movimenti per via di terra, mare ed aria e qualsiasi altre informazioni che le Nazioni Unite potranno richiedere in merito all'uso delle basi italiane o alle operazioni , la sicurezza od il benessere delle forze di terra , mare ed aeree delle Nazioni Unite. Le forze e il materiale italiano verranno messe a disposizione delle Nazioni Unite quando richieste , per togliere le summenzionate ostruzioni .
11. Il Governo Italiano fornira subito elenchi indicanti 1 quantitativi di tutto il materiale da guerra coll'indicazione della localita, dove esso si trova . A meno che il Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate non decida di farne uso, il materiale da guerra verra posto in magazzino sotto il controllo che egli potra stabilire . La destinazione definitiva del materiale da guerra verrà decisa dalle Nazioni Unite.
12. Non dovrà avere luogo alcuna distruzione ne danneggiamento, ne , fatta eccezione a quanto verra autorizzato o disposto dalle Nazioni Unite , alouno spostamento di materiale da guerra , radio , radio localizzazione , o stazione metereologiche , impianti ferroviari , stradali e portuari od altri installazioni od in via generale di servizi pubblici e privati e di proprietà di qualsiasi sorta ovunque si trovino , e la manutenzione necessaria e le riparazioni saranno a carico delle Autorita` Italiane .
13. La fabbricazione , produzione e costruzione del materiale da guerra , la sua importazione , esportazione e trasporto , e proibita , fatta eccezione a quanto verrà` disposto dalle Nazioni Unite . Il Governo Italiano si conformera a quelle istruzioni che le verra impartite dalle Nazioni Unite per la fabbricazione , produzione e costruzione , e l'importazione , esportazione transito di materiale da guerra .
14.
(A) Tutte le navi italiane mercantili , da pesca ed altre imbarcazioni , ovunque si trovino , nonche quelle costruite o completate durante il periodo del presente atto saranno dalle Autorità Italiane competenti messe a disposizione in buono stato di riparazione e di navigazione in quei luoghi a tali scopi e periodi di tempo che le Nazioni Unite potranno prescrivere. Il trasferimento alla bandiera nemica o neutrale e proibito . Equipaggi rimarranno a bordo in attesa di ulteriori istruzioni in riguardo al loro ulteriore impiego o licenziamento . Qualunque opzione esistente per il riacquisto o la restituzione o la ripresa in possesso di navi italiane o precedentemente italiane

2753

2754

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

che erano state vendute od in altro modo trasferite o noleggiate durante la guerra verranno immediatamente messi in effetto le condizioni sopra indicate verranno applicate a tutte dette navi e i loro equipaggi .
( B ) Tutti i trasporti interni italiani e tutti gl'impianti portuali saranno tenuti a disposizione delle Nazioni Unite per gli usi che loro necessiteranno.
15. Navi mercantili , da pesca ed altre imbarcazioni delle Nazioni Unite , ovunque esse si trovino , in mano degli italieni (anche , a tale scopo , quelle navi di ogni paese che abbia rotto relazioni diplomatiche con l'Italia ) anche se il titolo di proprieta e gia stato trasferito per merito di procedure del tribunale delle prede od altro , verranno consegnate alle Nazioni Unite e verranno radunate nei porti che saranno indicati dalle Nazioni Unite le quali disporranno di esse come crederanno opportuno . Il Governo Italiano prendera le disposizioni necessarie per il trasferimento del titolo di proprieta. Qualsiasi nave mercantile , da pesca od altri imbarcazioni gestite o controllate dagli Italiani saranno radunate in modo simile in attesa di accordi per la loro sorte definitiva . Qualunque riparazione alle sopra indicate navi se richieste saranno eseguite dal Governo Italiano a proprie spese . Il Governo Italiano prendera tutte le misure necessarie per assicurare che le navi ed i loro carichi non saranno danneggiati .
16. Nessun impianto di radio o di comunicazione a lunga distanza od altri mezzi di inter- comunicazione a terra o galleggiante , sotto controllo italiano , od appartenente all'Italie od altra nazione non facente parte delle Nazioni Unite potra trasmettere finche disposizioni per il controllo di questi impianti saranno state impartite dal Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate . Le autorita italiane si conformeranno alle disposizioni per il controllo e la censura della stampa e delle altre pubblicazioni , delle rappresentazioni teatrali e cinematografiche della radio diffusione e di qualsiasi altro mezzo di inter - comunicazione che potrà prescrivere il Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate . Il Comando Supremo delle Forze Alleate potra a suo gradimento rilevare stazioni radio , cavi od altri mezzi di comunicazione .
17. Le navi da guerra , ausiliarie , di trasporto e mercantili e altre navi ed aeroplani al servizio delle Nazioni Unite avranno il diritto di usare liberamente le acque territoriali lungo la costa Italiana e di sorvolare il territorio Italiano .
18. Le forze delle Nazioni Unite dovranno occupare certe zone del territorio Italiano . I territori o le zone in questione verranno notificate di volta in volta dalle Nazioni Unite , e tutte le forze Italiane di terra , mare e aria , si ritireranno da questi territori o zone in conformita` agli ordini emessi dal Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate . Le provisioni di questo capoverso non pregiudicano quelle del capoverso 4 sopradetto . Il Comandante Supremo Italiano garantira l'uso e l'accesso immediato agli aerodromi ai porti navali in Italia sotto il loro controllo .
19. Nei territori o zone di cui e cenno nell'articolo 18, tutte le installazioni navali , militari ed aeree , tutte gli
impianti elettrici , le raffinerie , i servizi pubblici , porti , le installazioni per i trasporti e le comunicazioni , i mezzi ed il materiale e quelli impianti e mezzi e altri depositi che

61 STAT.] ITALY-ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER Sept. 3, 23, 29, 1943 Nov. 9, 17, 1943
potranno essere richiesti dalle Nazioni Unite saranno messi a disposizione in buone condizioni dalle competenti autorita italiane con il personale necessario per il loro funzionamento. Il Governo Italiano metterà a disposizione quelle altre risorse o servizi locali che le Nazioni Unite potranno richiedere .
20. Senza pregiudizio alle condizioni di questo atto , le Nazioni Unite eserciteranno tutti i diritti di una potenza ocoupante nei territori e nelle zone di oui all'articolo 18 , per la oui amministrazione verrà provveduto mediante l'emissione di proclami , ordini e regolamenti . Il personale dei servizi amministrativi , giudiziari e pubblici italiani eseguiranno le loro funzioni sotto il controllo del Comandante in Capo Alleato a meno che non venga stabilito altrimenti .
21. In aggiunta ai diritti relativi ai territori occupati Italiani descritti negli articoli dal numero 18 al 20 ,
(A) I componenti delle forze terrestri , navali , ed aeree ed i funzionari delle Nazioni Unite avranno diritto di passaggio in o. sul territorio italiano non occupato e verranno forniti di tutte le facilitazioni e l'assistenza necessaria per eseguire le loro funzioni .
(B) Le autorità italiane metteranno a disposizione , nel territorio Italiano non occupato , tutte le facilitazioni per i trasporti richieste dalle Nazioni Unite compreso il libero transito per il loro materiale ed i loro rifornimenti di guerra , ed eseguiranno le istruzioni emanate dal Comandante in Capo Alleato relative all'uso ed al controllo degli aeroporti , porti , navigazione , sistemi e mezzi di trasporto terrestri , sistemi di comunicazione , centrali elettriche e servizi pubblici , raffinerie, materiali e altri rifornimenti di carburante e di elettrioita ed i mezzi per produrli , a seconda delle richieste delle Nazioni Unite , insieme colle relative facilitazioni per le riparazioni e per la costruzione .
22. Il governo e il popolo italiano si asterranno da ogni azione control gl'interessi delle Nazioni Unite e eseguiranno prontamente ed efficacemente tutti gli ordini delle Nazioni Unite .
23. Il Governo Italiano metterà a disposizione la valuta italiana che le Nazioni Unite domanderanno . Il Governo Italiano ritirera e riscatterà il denaro italiano entro i periodi di tempo e in base ai termini che saranno stabiliti tutte le disponibilita in territorio italiano della valuta emessa dalle Nazioni Unite durante le operazioni militari o di occupazione e consegnera alle Nazioni Unite senza alcuna spesa la valuta ritirata . Il Governo Italiano prenderà quelle misure che saranno richieste dalle Nazioni Unite per il controllo delle banche e degli affari in territorio italiano , per il controllo del cambio coll'estero , delle relazioni commerciali e finanziarie coll'estero , e per il regolamento del commercio e della produzione ed eseguira. qualsiasi istruzioni relative a dette e simili materie emesse dalle Nazioni Unite .

2755

2756

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

24. Non vi dovranno essere relzioni finanziarie, commerciali o di altro carattere o trattativi con o a favore dei paesi in guerra con una delle Nazioni Unite o coi territori occupati da dette Nazioni o da qualsiasi altra nazione straniera , salvo autorizzazione del Comandante in Capo Alleato o di funzionari designati .
25.
(A) Le relazioni con i paesi in guerra con una qualsiasi delle Nazioni Unite , od occupati da uno di detti paesi , saranno interrotte . I funzionari diplomatici , consolari ed altri funzionari e componenti delle . forze terrestri , navali ed aeree accreditati o in missione presso uno qualsiasi di detti paesi o in qualsiasi altro territorio specificato dalle Nazioni Unite saranno richiamati . I funzionari diplomatici e consolari di detti paesi saranno trattati secondo le disposizioni delle Nazioni Unite .
(B ) Le Nazioni Unite si riservano il diritto di richiedere il ritiro degli ufficiali diplomatici e consolari neutrali dal territorio italiano occupato ed a prescrivere ed a stabilire i regolamenti relativi alla procedura , ed i metodi per communicare tra il Governo Italiano ed i suoi rappresentanti nei paesi neutrali ed a riguardo alle communicazioni emesse da o destinate ai rappresentanti nei paesi neutrali in territorio Italiano .
26. In attesa di numovi ordini sudditi Italiani saranno impediti di lasciare territorio Italiano salvo d'autorita del Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate e in nessun caso non presteranno servizio con nessuna nazione od in qualsiasi dei territori a cui si riferisce l'articolo 25 ( A ) , ne procederanno a qualsiasi luogo coll'intenzione d'intraprendere lavoro per qualsiasi di tali stati . Quelli che gia servono o lavorano saranno richiamati secondo le disposizioni del Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate .
27. Personale e materiale delle forze militari , navali , ed aeree , e la marina mercantile , navi da pesca ed altri imbarcazioni , velivoli , veicoli , ed altri mezzi di trasporto di qualsiasi nazione contro la quale qualunque delle Nazioni .Unite si batte od è occupata da tale nzaione rimarrà soggetta ad attacco o sequestro dovunque si trova entro o sopra territorio od acque italiane .
28.
(A) Le navi da guerra , ausiliarie , e le navi trasporto di qualsiasi tale nazione o territorio occupato e di cui si riferisce nell'articolo 27 nei porti ed acque italiane od oooupate dagli Italiani ed i velivoli , veicoli , e mezzi di trasporto di tali stati entro o sopra territorio italiano od occupato dagli Italiani saranno nell'attesa di ulteriori istruzioni impediti di partire .
(B) Personale militare , navale , ed aeronautico, e la popolazione civile di qualsiasi tale nazione o territorio occupato in territorio italiano od occupato dagli Italiani sara impedito di partire e sarà internato in attesa di ulteriori istruzioni .

61 STAT. ] ITALY- ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER- Sept. 3, 23, 29, 1943 Nov. 9, 17, 1943
( C) Qualsiasi proprieta in territorio italiano appar tenente a qualsiasi tale nazione o territorio occupato o dai suoi nazionali sara sequestrata e tenuta in custodia in attesa di ulteriori istruzioni .
(D ) Il Governo Italiano si conformera a qualsiasi istruzione data dal Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate concernente l'internamento , custodia o disposizione susseguente utilizzazione od impiego di qualsiasi delle sopradette person, imbarcazioni , velivoli , materiale , o proprieta.
29. BENITO MUSSOLINI , i suoi principali associati Fascisti tutte persone sospette di aver commesso delitti di guerra o delitti analoghi i cui nomi si trovano sugli elenchi che verranno comunicati dalle Nazioni Unite , saranno immediatamente arrestati e consegnati alle forze delle Nazioni Unite . Tutti gli ordini impartiti dalle Nazioni Unite in questo riguardo verranno osservati .
30. Tutte le organizzazioni Fasciste , comprese tutti i rami della milizia Fascista (MVSN) , la polizia segreta ( OVRA) e le organizzazioni della gioventu Fascista saranno , se questo non sia già stato fatto , sciolte in conformità alle disposizioni del Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate . Il Governo Italiano conformera a tutte le direttive future che le Nazioni Unite daranno per l'abolizione delle istituzioni Fasciste , il licenziamento ed internamento del personale Fascista , il controllo di fondi Fascisti , la soppressione della ideologia ed insegnamento Fascista .
31. Tutte le leggi italiane che implicano discriminazioni di razza , colore , fede , od opinioni politiche , saranno fino a quanto questo non sia gia stato fatto , abrogate e persone trattenute per tali ragioni saranno , secondo gli ordini delle Nazioni Unite , liberate e sciolte da qualsiasi impedimento legale a cui sono state' sottomesse . Il Governo Italiano adempierà tutte le nuove direttive che il Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate potrà dare per l'abrogazione della legislazione Fascista ed il ritiro di qualsiasi impedimento o proibizione che risultano da essi .
32 .
(A) Prigionieri di guerra appartenenti alle forze delle Nazioni Unite o designati dalle Nazioni Unite e qualsiasi suddito delle Nazioni Unite compresi i sudditi abbissini , confinati , internati , o in qualsiasi altro modo detenuti in territorio italiano od occupato dagli italiani non saranno trasferiti e saranno immediatamente consegnati ai rappresentanti delle Nazioni Unite o saranno trattati come sara disposto dalle Nazioni Unite. Qualunque trasferimento durante il periodo tra la presentazione e la firma del presente atto sarà trattato come una violazione delle condizioni ..
(B ) Persone di qualsiasi nazionalità che sono state sorvegliate , detenute o condannate ( incluso condanna in absentia)

2757

95347° -49 - PT. III- -31

2758

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
od in conseguenza delle loro relazioni e simpatie colle Nazioni Unite saranno rilasciate in conformità agli ordini delle Nazioni Unite , e saranno sollevati da tutti gl'impedimenti legali ai quali sono stati sottomessi .
(C) Il Governo Italiano prenderà le misure che potranno essere prescritte dalle Nazioni Unite per proteggere le persone di nazionalita straniera e proprieta di stati e nazionali stranieri .
33.
(A) Il Governo Italiano adempiera le istruzioni che potranno essere prescritte dalle Nazioni Unite a riguardo alla restituzione , consegna , servizi o pagamenti quale indennizzo · pagamento delle spese di occupazione durante il periodo del presente atto.
( B) Il Governo Italiano consegnera al Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate qualsiasi informazione prescritto a riguardo alle attivita sia in territorio Italiano o fuori di territorio Italiano appartenendo allo stato Italiano , alla Banca d'Italia , a qualsiasi istitute statale o para -statale italiano od organizzazioni fasciste , o persone domiciliate in territorio italiano , e non disporra ne permettera di disporre qualsiasi tale attivita fuori del territorio italiano salvo col permesso delle Nazioni Unite .
34. Il Governo Italiano procedera durante il periodo del presente atto a misure di disarmamento , smobilitazione , e smilitarizazione come potra essere prescritto dal Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate .
35. Il Governo Italiano fornira tutte le informazioni e provvedera tutti i documenti occorrenti alle Nazioni Unite , e sara proibito distruggere o nascondere archivi , verbali , progetti o qualsiasi altri documenti od informazioni .
36. Il Governo Italiano prendera ed applichera' qualsiasi misure , sia legislativa od altra , che sara necessario per l'esecuzione del presente atto . Le autorita militari e civili Italiane si conformeranno a qualsiasi istruzioni emesse dal Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate a tale scopo .
37. Verra nominato una Commissione di Controllo rappresen tativa delle Nazioni Unite e regolera e darà corso al presente atto sotto gli ordini ed istruzioni generali del Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate .
38 .
(A) Il termine " Nazioni Unite" nel presente atto comprende il Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate , la commissione di controllo , e qualsiasi altro autorita che le Nazioni Unite possono nominare .
( B) Il termine "Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate" nel presente atto comprende la commissione di controllo , e tali altri ufficiali e rappresentanti che il Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate potra nominare.

61 STAT. ] ITALY-ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER- Sept. 3, 23, 29, 1943 Nov. 9, 17, 1943

39. Ogni riferimento alle forze terrestri , navali , ed aeronautiche Italiane nel presente atto s'intende ad includere la milizia Fascista e qualsiasi unita militare o para -militare , formazioni o nuclei quale potrà essere prescritto dal Comandante Supremo delle Forze Alleate .
40. Il termine "materiali di guerra " nel presente atto significa tutto il materiale specificato in tali elenchi o definizioni che saranno di tanto in tanto emessi dalla commissione di controllo .
41. Il termine " territorio Italiano" comprende tutte le colonie e dipendenze Italiane , e , per l'intento di questo atto , ( e senza pregiudizio alla questione della sovranita ) sarà ritenuto ad includere l'Albania . Sempre che , però, ad eccezione di tali casi e tali limiti prescritti dalle Nazioni Unite , i provenimenti del presente atto non saranno applicabili , ne riguarderanno , l'amministrazione di qualsiasi colonia o dipendenza Italiana già occupata dalle Nazioni Unite , o nei diritti o poteri colà posseduti o esercitati da essi .
42. Il Governo Italiano invierà una delegazione al Quartiere Generale della commissione di controllo per rappresentare gli interessi Italiani e per trasmettere alle competenti autorita Italiane gli ordini della commissione di controllo .
43. Il presente atto entrera in vigore immediatamente . Rimarra in vigore fino a che sara sostituito da qualsiasi altri accordi o fino a che non entrera in vigore il trattato di pace coll'Italia .
44. Il presente atto può essere denunciato dalle Nazioni Unite con effetto immediato se gli obblighi Italiani di cui il presente atto non sono adempiti , od altrimenti , le Nazioni Unite possono punire contravvenzioni dell'atto con misure adatte alle circostanze , quale ad esempio l'estenzione delle zone di occupazione militare , o azioni aeree , oppure altra azione punitiva .
Il presente atto è redatto in inglese ed italiano , il testo inglese essendo quello autentico ed in caso di qualsiasi disputa riguardando interpretazione , la decisione della commissione di controllo prevalera .

Firmato a Malta
Badaglig Maresciallo PIETRO BADOGLIO Capo Del Governo Italiano

il giorno 29 settembre 1943.
Dwight D Sevenknow
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER , Generale Corpo d'Armata Degli
Stati Uniti , Comandante in Capo Alleato

2759

2760

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Ante, p. 2740.

The Commander-in-Chief of the Allied Forces to the Head of the Italian Government

29TH SEPTEMBER, 1943. MY DEAR MARSHAL BADOGLIO,
The terms of the armistice to which we have just appended our signatures are supplementary to the short military armistice signed by your representative and mine on September 3rd, 1943. They are based upon the situation obtaining prior to the cessation of hostilities. Developments since that time have altered considerably the status of Italy, which has become in effect a co-operator with the United Nations.

It is fully recognised by the Governments on whose behalf I am acting that these terms are in some respects superseded by subsequent events and that several of the clauses have become obsolescent or have

already been put into execution. We also recognise that it is not at this time in the power of the Italian Government to carry out certain of the terms. Failure to do so because of existing conditions will

not be regarded as a breach of good faith on the part of Italy. However, this document represents the requirements with which the Italian Government can be expected to comply when in a position to do so.
It is to be understood that the terms both of this document and of

the short military armistice of September 3rd may be modified from time to time if military necessity or the extent of co- operation by the Italian Government indicates this as desirable.

Sincerely ,

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER.

General, United States Army. Commander-in-Chief, Allied Forces.

His Excellency, MARSHAL PIETRO BADOGLIO,

Head of the Italian Government.

Sept. 3, 23, 29, 1943 61 STAT. ] ITALY-ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER- Nov. 9, 17, 1943

2761

PROTOCOL

It is agreed that the title of the document signed at Malta on September 29, 1943 by Marshal Pietro Badoglio, Head of the Italian Government, and General Dwight D. Eisenhower, Commander-inChief, Allied Forces, should be changed to "additional conditions of Armistice with Italy." The following further amendments to this document are also agreed :

Ante, p. 2742.

In the first paragraph of the Preamble the words "acting in the interests of all the United Nations" are inserted between the words
"governments" and " on the one hand". The paragraph in question therefore reads as follows :

"Whereas in consequence of an Armistice dated September 3, 1943 between the United States and United Kingdom Governments acting in the interests of all the United Nations on the one hand , and the Italian Government on the other hand , hostilities were suspended between Italy and United Nations on certain terms of a military nature."

In the fourth paragraph of the Preamble the words "and Soviet " are inserted between the words "United Kingdom" and "Governments", and the word "and" between the words "United States" and "United Kingdom" is deleted . The paragraph in question therefore reads as follows :

"The following, together with the terms of the Armistice of Sep-
tember 3, 1943, are the terms on which the United States, United
Kingdom and Soviet Governments, acting on behalf of the United
Nations , are prepared to suspend hostilities against Italy so long as
their military operations against Germany and the Allies are not
obstructed and Italy does not assist these powers in any way and com""
plies with the requirements of these governments."

In paragraph six of the Preamble the word "unconditionally" is inserted between the word "accepted " and "by". The paragraph in question therefore reads as follows :

"and have been accepted unconditionally by Marshal Pietro Badoglio, Head of the Italian Government representing the Supreme Command of the Italian land , sea and air forces and duly authorized to that effect by the Italian Government."

In Article 1 a the word "unconditionally" is deleted . The Article in question therefore reads as follows :

"The Italian land, sea and air forces wherever located hereby surrender."
Article 29 is amended to read as follows :

Ante, p. 2747.

"Benito Mussolini, his chief Fascist associates, and all persons suspected of having committed war crimes or analogous offences whose

2762 Authentic text.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
names appear on lists to be communicated by the United Nations and who now or in the future are on territory controlled by the Allied Military Command or by the Italian Government, will forthwith be apprehended and surrendered into the hands of the United Nations. Any instructions given by the United Nations to this purpose will be complied with."
The present Protocol is drawn up in English and Italian, the English text being authentic, and in case of any dispute regarding its interpretation the decision of the Control Commission will prevail.
Signed on the 9th November 1943 at BRINDISI.



Voie per Ducane Dr.Jeneral
For the Allied Commander- in-Chief

I'laps delfoverns italians

Badaglig

Sept. 3, 23, 29, 1943 61 STAT. ] ITALY-ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER- Nov. 9, 17, 1943
PROTOCOLLO
E ' inteso che il titolo del documento firmato a Malta il 29 settembre 1943 dal Maresciallo Pietro BADOGLID , Capo del Governo Italiano , e il Generale Dwight D. Eisenhower, Comandante in Capo delle For ze Alleate , deve essere cambiato in "Condizioni ag giuntive di armistizio con l'Italia" . I seguenti ul teriori emendamenti a questo documento sono anche concordati :
"" Nel 1 ° paragrafo del preambolo le parole " agen do nell'interesse di tutte le Nazioni Unite" sono in serite fra le parole " Governi " e " dall'altro canto". Detto paragrafo sarà perciò del seguente tenore : "Poichè in seguito ad un armistizio in data 3 settem bre 1943 fra i Governi degli Stati Uniti e della Gran Brettagna, agendo nell'interesse di tutte e Nazioni Unite , da una parte e il Governo Italiano dall'altra, le ostilità sono state sospese fra l'Italia e le Na zioni Unite in base ad alcune condizioni di carattere militare .
Nel 4º paragrafo del preambolo le parole " e del_ 1'Unione Sovietica" sono inserite fra le parole " Gran Brettagna" e " Governi" e la parola " e" fra le parole "Stati Uniti" e " Gran Brettagna" è cancellata . Detto paragrafo avrà pertanto il seguente tenore : " Le seguen ti insieme con le condizioni di armistizio del 3 set_ tembre 1943 , sono le condizioni in base a cui i Gover_ ni degli Stati Uniti , della Gran Brettagna e dell'Unio_ ne Sovietica , agendo per conto delle Nazioni Unite , so no disposti a sospendere le ostilità contro l'Italia

2763

2764

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
sempre che le loro operazioni militari contro la Ger mania ed i suoi alleati non siano ostacolate e che l'Italia non aiuti queste potenze in qualsiasi modo e eseguisca le richieste di questi Governi".
Nel paragrafo 6 del preambolo la parola "senza condizioni " è inserita fra la parola " accettate" a "dal" . Detto paragrafo avrà pertanto il seguente te nore: " e sono state acce.tate senza condizioni dal Haresciallo Pietro 3ADOG IO, Capo del Governo Italia no" .
Nell'articolo Ja la parola " a discrezione" è cancellata. Detto articolo avrà pertanto il seguente) tenore : "Le forze italiane di terra , mare ed aria, ovunque si trovino , a cues to scopo si arrendono".
L'articolo 29 viene emendato e avrà il seguente tenore : " Benito Mussolini i suoi principali fascisti e tutte persone sospette di aver commesso delitti di guerra o delitti analoghi i cui nomi si trovino sugli elenchi che verranno comunicati dalle Nazioni Unite e che ora o in avvenire si trovino in territorio con trollato dal Comando Militare Alleato o dal Gover:10 Italiano , saranno immediatamente arrestati e consegna ti alle forze delle Nazioni Unite . Tutti gli ordini impartiti dalle Nazioni Unite in questo riguardo ver ranno osservati " .
Il presente protocollo è redatto in inglese ed italiano , il testo inglese essendo quello autentico ed in caso di qualsiasi disputa riguardante l'inter_ pretazione , la decisione della Commissione di Control , 10 prevarra.

61 STAT. ] ITALY- ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER- Sept. 3, 23, 29, 1943 Nov. 9, 17, 1943

Firmato a Brindisi il giorno 9 novembre 1943

 











Maresciallo Pietro BADOGLIO Capo del Governo Italiano

p.IL COMANDANTS IN CAPO ALLEATO

Bawdaylig

  

2765

2766

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

OFFICE OF THE COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF, MEDITERRANEAN.
23rd September, 1943
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT ON THE EMPLOYMENT AND DISPOSITION OF THE ITALIAN FLEET AND MERCANTILE MARINE BETWEEN THE ALLIED NAVAL COMMANDER IN CHIEF, MEDITER. RANEAN, ACTING ON BEHALF OF THE ALLIED COMMANDER IN CHIEF AND THE ITALIAN MINISTER OF MARINE

Disposition ofItalian navy and merchant marine.
Post, p. 2769.

The armistice having been signed between the Head of the Italian Government and the Allied Commander-in-Chief under which all Italian warships and the Italian Mercantile Marine were placed un-

conditionally at the disposal of the United Nations, and H. M. The

King of Italy and the Italian Government having since expressed the wish that the Fleet and the Italian Mercantile Marine should be em-

Decisions of U. N.

ployed in the Allied effort to assist in the prosecution of the war against the Axis powers, the following principles are established on which the Italian Navy and Mercantile Marine will be disposed.
It is understood and agreed that the provisions of this Agreement as to immediate employment and disposition of Italian warships and merchant ships do not affect the right of the United Nations to make such other dispositions of any or all Italian ships as they may think fit. Their decisions in this respect will be notified to the Italian Government from time to time.

Ships for active assistance.

(A) Such ships as can be employed to assist actively in the Allied effort will be kept in commission and will be used under the orders of the Commander-in- Chief, Mediterranean as may be arranged between the Allied Commander-in-Chief and the Italian Government.

Ships reduced to care and maintenance basis.
Declaration ofnames, etc., of U. N. ships in Italian possession.

(B ) Ships which cannot be so employed will be reduced to a care and maintenance basis and be placed in designated ports, measures of disarmament being undertaken as may be necessary.
(C) The Government of Italy will declare the names and whereabouts of

Agent of Allied Commander-in-Chief.

( i ) Warships (ii) Merchant ships
now in their possession which previously belonged to any ofthe United Nations. These vessels are to be returned forthwith as may be directed by the Allied Commander-in- Chief. This will be without prejudice to negotiations between the Governments which may subsequently be made in connection with replacing losses of ships of the United Nations caused by Italian action.
(D) The Allied Naval Commander- in- Chief will act as the agent of the Allied Commander-in- Chief in all matters concerning

61 STAT. ] ITALY-ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER- Sept. 3, 23, 29, 1943 Nov. 9, 17, 1943

2767

the employment of the Italian Fleet or Merchant Navy, their disposition and related matters.
Modification of (E) It should be clearly understood that the extent to which the terms.
terms of the armistice are modified to allow of the arrange-
ments outlined above and which follow, are dependent upon the extent and effectiveness of Italian co-operation.

2. Method of Operation. The Commander-in -Chief, Mediterranean will place at the disposal of the Italian Ministry of Marine a high ranking Naval officer with the appropriate staff who will be responsible to the Commander-in-Chief, Mediterranean , for all matters in connection with the operation of the Italian Fleet, and be the medium through which dealings will be carried out in connection with the Italian Mercantile Marine. The Flag Officer acting for these duties (Flag Officer Liaison ) , will keep the Italian Ministry of Marine informed of the requirements of the Commander-in- Chief, Mediterranean, and will act in close co- operation as regards issue of all orders to the Italian Fleet.

3. Proposed disposition of the Italian Fleet.
(a ) All battleships will be placed on a care and maintenance basis in ports to be designated and will have such measures of disarmament applied as may be directed . These measures of disarmament will be such that the ships can be brought into operation again if it so seems desirable. Each ship will have on board a proportion of Italian Naval personnel to keep the ships in proper condition and the Commander-in-Chief, Mediterranean, will have the right of inspection at any time.
(b) Cruisers. Such cruisers as can be of immediate assistance will be kept in commission. At present it is visualised that one squadron of four cruisers will suffice and the remainder will be kept in care and maintenance as for the battleships but at a rather greater degree of readiness to be brought into service if required.
(c) Destroyers and Torpedo Boats. It is proposed to keep these in commission and to use them on escort and similar duties as may be requisite. It is proposed that they should be divided into escort groups working as units and that they should be based on Italian ports.

Battleships.

(d ) Small Craft. M. A. S. , Minesweepers, auxiliaries and similar small craft will be employed to the full, detailed arrangements being made with the Flag Officer ( Liaison ) by the Italian Ministry of Marine for their best employment.
(e) Submarines. In the first instance submarines will be immobilised in ports to be designated and at a later date these may be brought into service as may be required to assist the Allied effort.

2768 Liaison officers.
Post, p. 2769.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
4. Status of Italian Navy. Under this modification of the armistice terms, all the Italian ships will continue to fly their flags. A large proportion of the Italian Navy will thus remain in active commission operating their own ships and fighting alongside the forces of the United Nations against the Axis Powers.
The requisite Liaison officers will be supplied to facilitate the working of the Italian ships in co-operation with allied forces. A small Italian liaison mission will be attached to the Headquarters of the Commander-in-Chief, Mediterranean, to deal with matters affecting the Italian Fleet.
5. Mercantile Marine. It is the intention that the Italian Mercantile Marine should operate under the same conditions as the merchant ships of the Allied Nations. That is to say, all mercantile shipping of the United Nations is formed into a pool which is employed as may be considered necessary for the benefit of all the United Nations. In this will naturally be included the requirements for the supply and maintenance of Italy. The system will be analogous to that used in North Africa , where the North Africa Shipping Board controls all United States, British and French shipping under certain agreements which will have to be arranged in detail in so far as Italian ships are concerned . While it may be expected that a proportion of Italian ships will be working within the Mediterranean and to and from Italian ports, it must be appreciated that this will not always necessarily be the case and ships flying the Italian flag may be expected to be used elsewhere as is done with the merchant ships of all the United Nations. Italian ships employed as outlined in this paragraph will be manned so far as possible by crews provided by Italian Ministry of Marine and will fly the Italian flag.

61 STAT. ] ITALY-ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER- Sept. 3, 23, 29, 1943 Nov. 9, 17, 1943

2769

AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE NAVAL COMMANDERIN-CHIEF, MEDITERRANEAN, ALLIED FORCES AND THE ROYAL ITALIAN MINISTER OF MARINE WITH RESPECT TO THE EMPLOY. MENT OF THE ITALIAN NAVY.

The aforementioned agreement is amended as follows : The following phrase to be added to the Preamble :

Ante, p. 2766.

"It is understood and agreed that the provisions of this agreement as to immediate employment and disposition of Italian warships and merchant ships do not affect the right of United Nations to make such other dispositions of any or all Italian ships as they may think fit. Their decisions in this respect will be notified to the Italian Government from time to time. "
Final sentence of last paragraph to be amended to read :
"will be manned so far as possible by crews provided by Italian Ministry of Marine and will fly the Italian flag."
The present instrument is drawn up in English and Italian, the English text being authentic, and in case of any dispute regarding its interpretation the decision of the Control Commission will prevail.

Ante, p. 2768. Authentic text.

Signed on the 17th November 1943 at BRINDISI.
For the Naval Commander- in-Chief Mediterranean, Allied Forces.

Ridge

A.Profanie

Rear Admiral. Mimiricosella Hlaing

Play Offien Linism . Italy.

2770

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

EMENDAMENTO ALL'ACCORDO TRA IL COMANDANTE IN CAPO DELLE FORZE ALLEATE NEL EDITERRANEO E IL INISTRO ITALIANO DELLA MARINA RELATIVO ALL'IMPIEGO DELLA ARINA ITALIANA

L'ACCORDO SUMMENZIONATO È EMENDATO COME SEGUE :
1.- LA FRASE SEGUENTE VIENE AGGIUNTA AL PREAMBOLO : " E ' INTESO E CONCORDATO CHE LE DISPOSIZIONI DEL PRE_ SENTE ACCORDO RELATIVE ALL'IMMEDIATO IMPIEGO E DISPOSI___ ZIONE DELLE NAVI DA GUERRA E MERCANTILI ITALIANE NON AL TERANO IL DIRITTO DELLE NAZIONI UNITE DI PRENDERE QUEL LE ALTRE DISPOSIZIONI RELATIVE A TUTTE O PARTE DELLE NAVI ITALIANE CHE ESSE CONSIDERINO OPPORTUNE . LE LORO DECISIONI A QUESTO RIGUARDO SARANNO NOTI FICATE DI VOLTA IN VOLTA AL GOVERNO ITALIANO" .
2.- L'ULTIMA FRASE DELL'ULTIMO PARAGRAFO VIENE EMENDATA COME SEQUE : " SARANNO ARMATE NEI LIMITI DEL POSSIBILE CON EQUIPAG OI PROVVISTI DAL MINISTERO DELLA MARINA ITALIANA E BAT_ TERANNO BANDIERA ITALIANA" .
IL PRESENTE ACCORDO È REDATTO IN INGLESE ED ITALIA_ NO, IL TESTO INGLESE ESSENDO QUELLO AUTENTICO ED IN CASO DI QUALSIASI DISPUTA RIGUARDANTE L'INTERPRETAZIONE , LA DECISIO NE DELLA COMMISSIONE DI CONTROLLO PREVARRÀ.
FIRMATO A BRINDISI IL GIORNO 17 NOVEMBRE 1943

AMMIRAGLIO RAFFAELE DE CURTEN MINISTRO DELLA MARINA ITALIANA
Am .Masamin Minirtsnelle Maring

P. IL COMANDANTE IN CAPO DELLE FORZE NAVALI AL LEATE NEL MEDITERRANEO
the Admind.

Linion. Has Oficin
Italy.

Sept. 3, 23, 29, 1943 61 STAT.] ITALY-ARMISTICE AND SURRENDER- Nov. 9 , 17, 1943
Statement of Admiral de Courten, November 17, 1943
In obbedienza agli ordim di S.E. il Maresciallo Badoglio , Capo del Governo , ho firmato le clausole aggiuntive al preambolo ed all'ultimo paragrafo del Cunningham-de Courten Agreement , richieste dai Governi alleati come condizioni di firma degli emendamenti all'atto di armistizio .
Nel procedere a tale firma, chiedo che sia preso atto della seguente dichiarazione :
"Ritengo mio dovere mettere in chiaro rilievo che la richiesta di inserzione di queste clausole , avanzata a poco meno di due mesi all'incontro con Sir Andrew Cunningham, allora comandante in capo della flotta Alleata del Mediterraneo , altera lo spirito dell'accordo concluso fra l'Amm. Cunningham e me. Le clausole di tale Agreement erano state proposte , in regime di armistizio , dallo stesso Amm. Cunningham, il quale mi aveva inviato ad esaminarle ed a comunicargli le mie osservazioni e considerazioni : poiché era stato raggiunto il completo accordo sul testo presentato da parte Alleata e poiché l'Agreement ha aunto finora la più larga e completa applicazione senza ness sun contrasto nè nella lettera, nè nello spirito , non avevo · non ho nessuna ragione di pensare che esso dovesse essere modificato e completato con una ulteriore clausola di carat tere cautelativo . Tale clausola appare in antitesi con la collaborazione attiva data finora dalla Marina Italiana e con la palese dimostrazione della leale disposizione della flotta italiana ad intensificare fino al massimo limite il suo contributo alla condotta della guerra contro il comune
" nemico , nello spirito della co-belligeranza in atto .
Brindisi , 17 novembre 1943
Ann. 
Mimorico velle Marines

2771

2772

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Translation
By order of His Excellency, Marshal Badoglio, Chief of the Government, I have signed the clauses added to the Preamble and to the last paragraph of the Cunningham-de Courten Agreement, which were requested by the Allied Governments as conditions of the signature of the amendments to the Armistice.
In signing, I request that note be taken of the following statement :
"I believe it my duty to make clear that the request for insertion of these clauses, put forth less than two months after the meeting with Sir Andrew Cunningham, then Commander-in-Chief of the Allied Mediterranean Fleet , alters the spirit of the agreement concluded between Admiral Cunningham and me. The clauses of this Agreement had been put forward in accordance with the Armistice, by Admiral Cunningham himself, who invited me to examine them and make known to them my observations and comments. In as much as there was complete agreement in regard to the text presented by the Allies, and as the Agreement has up to now been carried out in the widest and most complete manner without opposition either in letter or spirit, I did not and do not have any reason to believe it should be modified and completed by a subsequent safeguarding clause. This clause seems to be at odds with the active collaboration given up to now by the Italian Navy and with the visible demonstration of the loyalty with which the Italian Fleet is contributing to the utmost to the conduct of the war against the common enemy in the spirit of existing co-belligerency".
BRINDISI, 17 November 1943 ADMIRAL DE COURTEN Minister of the Navy

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JAN. 8, 1947

2773

Agreement between the United States of America and Ecuador respecting air transport services. Signed at Quito January 8, 1947; entered into force April 24 , 1947.

January 8, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1606]

COMMERCIAL AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

95347°-49- PT. III- -32

2774

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Having in mind the resolution signed under date of December 7 , 1944, [ 1 ] at the International Civil Aviation Conference in Chicago, for the adoption of a standard form of agreement for air routes and services, and the desirability of mutually stimulating and promoting the further development of air transportation between the United States of America and the Republic of Ecuador, the two Governments parties to this arrangement agree that the establishment and development of air transport services between their respective territories shall be governed by the provisions of the present agreement, for which purpose they have appointed the following plenipotentiaries : His Excellency the Constitutional President of the Republic of Ecuador, Señor Don Enrique Arízaga Toral, Minister of the Treasury, Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs ;
His Excellency the President of the United States of America, Mr. Robert McGregor Scotten , his Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary in Quito.
Who, having exhibited their Full Powers, found to be in good and due form, have agreed upon the following articles :
ARTICLE 1

Post, p. 2778.

Each contracting party grants to the other contracting party the rights as specified in the Annex hereto necessary for establishing the international civil air routes and services therein described , whether such services be inaugurated immediately or at a later date at the option of the contracting party to whom the rights are granted.

ARTICLE 2

Inauguration of air services.

Each of the air services so described shall be placed in operation as

soon as the contracting party to whom the rights have been granted

by Article 1 to designate an airline or airlines for the route concerned has authorized an airline for such route, and the contracting party

Post. p. 2775.

granting the rights shall , subject to Article 6 hereof, be bound to give

the appropriate operating permission to the airline or airlines concerned ; provided that the airlines so designated may be required to

fulfill before the competent aeronautical authorities of the contracting

party granting the rights the requirements of law and to comply with laws and the regulations in force and those which may be pre-

scribed subsequently before being authorized to initiate the operations

contemplated by this agreement ; and provided that in areas of hos-

tilities or of military occupation, or in areas affected thereby, this service shall be subject to the approval of the competent military authorities.

ARTICLE 3

Charges.

In order to prevent discriminatory practices and to assure equality of treatment, both contracting parties agree that :

(a) Each of the contracting parties may impose or permit to be
1 ¹ [International Civil Aviation Conference, Chicago, Illinois, November 1 to December 7, 1944, Final Act and Related Documents, Department of State publication 2282. ]

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- JAN. 8, 1947

2775

imposed just and reasonable charges for the use of public airports and other facilities under its control. Each of the contracting parties agrees, however, that these charges shall not be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services.
(b) Fuel, lubricating oils, and spare parts introduced into the territory of one contracting party by the other contracting party or its nationals, and intended solely for use by aircraft of the airlines of such contracting party shall, with respect to the imposition of customs duties, inspection fees or other national duties or charges by the contracting party whose territory is entered , be accorded the same treatment as that applying to national airlines and to airlines of the most-favored-nation.
(c) The fuel, lubricating oils, spare parts, regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board civil aircraft of the airlines of one contracting party authorized to operate the routes and services
described in the Annex shall, upon arriving in or leaving the territory of the other contracting party, be exempt from customs, inspection fees or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used or consumed by such aircraft on flights in that territory.

Post, p. 2778

ARTICLE 4

Certificates of airCertificates of airworthiness, certificates of competency and licenses worthiness, etc. issued or rendered valid by one contracting party and still in force
shall be recognized as valid by the other contracting party for the purpose of operating the routes and services described in the Annex. Post, p. 2778.

Each contracting party reserves the right, however, to refuse to recognize, for the purpose of flight above its own territory, certificates of competency and licenses granted to its own nationals by the authorities of another state.
ARTICLE 5

(a) The laws and regulations of one contracting party relating to the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged in international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of such aircraft while within its territory, shall be applied to the aircraft

Laws and tions.

regula

of airlines designated by the other contracting party, and shall be complied with by such aircraft upon entering or departing from or while within the territory of the first party.

(b) The laws and regulations of one contracting party as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers, crew, or cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance, immigration, passports , customs and quarantine shall be complied with by or on behalf of such passengers, crew or cargo of the airlines designated by the other contracting party upon entrance into or departure from or while within the territory of the first party.

ARTICLE 6

Each contracting party reserves the right to withhold or revoke the

Withholding or revocation ofcertificate or

certificate or permit of an airline designated by the other contracting permit.

party in the event substantial ownership and effective control of such

2776

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Post, p. 2778.

airline are not vested in nationals of the other contracting party, or in case of failure by the airline designated by the other contracting party to comply with the laws and regulations of the contracting party over whose territory it operates, as described in Article 5 hereof, or otherwise to fulfill the conditions under which the rights are granted in accordance with this agreement and its Annex ; or in case the aircraft in service are not operated by crews which are nationals of the other contracting party, except when the crews are receiving instruction.
ARTICLE 7

Registration.

This agreement and all contracts connected therewith shall be registered with the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or its successor.
ARTICLE 8

Continuance of rights and privileges.

Existing rights and privileges relating to air transport services

which may have been granted previously by either of the contracting

parties to an airline of the other contracting party shall continue in

force according to their terms.

ARTICLE 9

Termination.

This agreement or any of the rights for air transport services granted thereunder may, without prejudice to Article 8 above, be terminated by either contracting party upon giving one year's notice to the other contracting party.

ARTICLE 10

Modification of routes or conditions.

In the event either of the contracting parties considers it desirable

Post, p. 2778.

to modify the routes or conditions set forth in the attached Annex,

it may request consultation between the competent authorities of

both contracting parties, such consultation to begin within a period of

sixty days from the date of the request. When these authorities

mutually agree on new or revised conditions affecting the Annex,

their recommendations on the matter will come into effect after they have been confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes.

ARTICLE 11

Submission of dispute for advisory re-

Except as otherwise provided in this agreement, or its Annex, any

port.

dispute between the contracting parties relative to the interpretation

or application of this agreement , or its Annex, which cannot be settled

through consultation shall be submitted for an advisory report to the Interim Council of the Provisional International Civil Aviation

Organization ( in accordance with the provisions of Article III , Sec-

59 Stat. 1521.

tion six ( 8 ) of the Provisional Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944 ) or to its successor ,

unless the contracting parties agree to submit the dispute to an arbitration tribunal designated by agreement between the same con-

tracting parties, or to some other person or body. The executive authorities of each of the contracting parties will use their best efforts

under the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in any such report.

61 STAT.] ECUADOR-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JAN. 8, 1947

2777

ARTICLE 12 Upon the coming into force of a general multilateral aviation convention, agreed to by both contracting parties, the provisions of the present agreement shall be modified to conform with those of such convention.
ARTICLE 13

Modification .

For the purposes of this agreement and its Annex, except where

otherwise provided therein :
(a ) the expression " aeronautical authorities" shall mean, in the case of the United States of America, the Civil Aeronautics Board, and any person or agency authorized to perform the functions exercised at

"Aeronautical authorities."

the present time by the Civil Aeronautics Board, or similar functions, and in the case of the Republic of Ecuador, the Minister of National

Defense or any person or agency authorized to perform the functions

exercised at present by that Minister, or similar functions. (b) the expression " designated airlines" shall mean those airlines,
that the aeronautical authorities of one of the contracting parties have

"Designated airlines.'

stated in writing to the aeronautical authorities of the other contract-

ing party, have been designated by it, in conformity with the stipula-

tions of this agreement, for the routes specified in such designation.

ARTICLE 14
This agreement, including the provisions of the Annex thereof, will come into force when ratified by Ecuador in accordance with its Constitution. [¹]

Entry into force.

In witness whereof, the plenipotentiaries heretofore mentioned have

signed the present agreement and have affixed their seals thereto. Done at Quito this eighth day of January, 1947, in duplicate in the
English and Spanish languages, each of which shall be of equal

Authentic languages.

authenticity.

For the Government of the United States of America : R. M. SCOTTEN

[ SEAL ]

For the Government of the Republic of Ecuador :

E. ARÍZAGA TORAL

[SEAL ]

1 [By note no. 151-DAO of July 9, 1947, the Ecuadoran Minister of Foreign
Affairs informed the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim at Quito that April
24, 1947, the date of publication of the agreement in the Ecuadoran Registro Oficial, should be considered the date of ratification of the agreement on the part of the Ecuadoran Government. ]

2778

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ANNEX TO COMMERCIAL AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

SECTION 1

It is agreed between the contracting parties :

Equal opportunity. A. That the airlines of the two contracting parties operating on

the routes described in this Annex shall enjoy fair and equal oppor-

Capacity.

tunity for the operation of the said routes. B. That the air transport capacity offered by the airlines of both

countries should bear a close relationship to traffic requirements.

C. That in the operation of common sections of trunk routes the

airlines of the contracting parties should take into account their reciprocal interests so as not to affect unduly their respective services.

D. That the services provided by a designated airline under this

agreement and its Annex shall retain as their primary objective the provision of capacity adequate to the traffic demands between the

Right to embark, etc.

country of which such airline is a national, and points under its jurisdiction, and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic.
E. That the right to embark and to disembark at points under

the jurisdiction of the other contracting party international traffic

destined for or coming from third countries at a point or points

hereinafter specified , shall be applied in accordance with the general principles of orderly development to which both Governments sub-

scribe and shall be subject to the general principle that capacity shall be related :

Consultation.

1. To traffic requirements between the country of origin, and points under its jurisdiction , and the countries of destination.
2. To the requirements of through airline operation, and 3. To the traffic requirements of the area through which the airline
passes after taking account of local and regional services.
F. The appropriate aeronautical authorities of each of the contracting parties will consult from time to time, or at the request of one of the parties, to determine the extent to which the principles set forth in Section E of this Annex are being followed by the airlines designated by the contracting parties, so as to prevent an unfair proportion of traffic being diverted from any designated airline through violation of the principle or principles enunciated elsewhere in this agreement or its Annex.

SECTION 2

U. S. rights oftransit and stop in Ecua-

A. Airlines of the United States of America, designated in con-

dor.

formity with the present agreement, are accorded rights of transit and

of nontraffic stop in the territory of the Republic of Ecuador as well

as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passen-

gers, cargo, and mail at Quito, Guayaquil, Riobamba, Esmeraldas,

Manta , Salinas, Cuenca and Loja, on the following routes via inter-

mediate points in both directions :

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JAN. 8, 1947

2779

1. The United States and/or the Canal Zone to Quito, Riobamba, Esmeraldas, Manta, Salinas, Guayaquil, Cuenca and Loja and beyond Ecuador.

a. From Quito to Ipiales, Colombia b. To points in Peru and beyond

2. The United States to Quito and Guayaquil and thence to Peru and beyond.

On the above route the airline or airlines authorized to operate the Nonstop flights.

route may operate nonstop flights between any of the points enumer-

ated omitting stops at one or more of the other points so enumerated.

B.

Airlines of the Republic of Ecuador, designated in conformity

Ecuadoran rights of transit and stop in

with the present agreement, are accorded rights of transit and of U.S.

nontraffic stop in the territory of the United States of America as well

as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passen-

gers, cargo, and mail at a point or points in the territory of the

United States along a route or routes agreed to by the Governments of the United States and of Ecuador at such time as the Government

of Ecuador desires to commence operations. On the above route the airline or airlines authorized to operate the

Nonstop flights.

route may operate nonstop flights between any of the points enumerated omitting stops at one or more of the other points so enumerated .

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JAN. 8, 1947

2781

ACUERDO DE TRANSPORTE AEREO COMERCIAL
INTERNACIONAL ENTRE
EL GOBIERNO DE LA REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR Y
EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA

2782

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Teniendo en cuenta la resolución firmada con fecha 7 de diciembre de 1944, en la Conferencia Internacional de Aviación Civil de Chicago , para adoptar un tipo uniforme de Acuerdo para el uso de las rutas y de los servicios aéreos, y, deseando estimular y fomentar el mútuo desarrollo del transporte aéreo entre los Estados Unidos de América y la República del Ecuador, ambos Gobiernos convienen en que el establecimiento y desarrollo de los servicios del transporte aéreo entre sus respectivos territorios, se sujetarán a las disposiciones del presente Convenio, para cuyo efecto han nombrado los siguientes Plenipotenciarios :
Su Excelencia el Señor Presidente Constitucional de la República del Ecuador al Excelentísimo Señor Don Enrique Arízaga Toral , Ministro del Tesoro, Encargado de la Cartera de Relaciones Exteriores ; y
Su Excelencia el Señor Presidente de los Estados Unidos de América, al Excelentísimo Señor Don Robert Mc. Gregor Scotten, su Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario en Quito.
Quienes, después de haber exhibido sus Plenos Poderes, encontrados en buena y debida forma, han convenido en los Artículos siguientes :
ARTICULO I
Cada Parte Contratante concede a la otra Parte Contratante los derechos especificados en el Anexo a este Acuerdo, necesarios para establecer los servicios y rutas internacionales aéreas civiles descritas en dicho Anexo, ya sea que estos servicios y rutas sean inaugurados inmediatamente o en fecha posterior, a opción de la Parte Contratante a la que se otorgan dichos derechos.
ARTICULO II
Cada servicio así descrito , será puesto en operación tan pronto como la Parte Contratante, a la cual se ha concedido por el Artículo I derecho para designar una línea aérea o líneas aéreas en determinada ruta, haya autorizado una línea aérea o líneas aéreas para dicha ruta y la Parte Contratante que otorga los derechos, conforme al Artículo VI de este Acuerdo, estará obligada a conceder el permiso de operaciones pertinente a la línea aérea o líneas aéreas que le conciernen , quedando entendido que dichas líneas aéreas, antes de ser autorizadas para iniciar las operaciones contempladas en este Acuerdo, podrán ser obligadas a llenar ante las Autoridades competentes de Aeronáutica de la Parte otorgante, los requisitos de ley, y a cumplir con las demás Leyes y Reglamentos vigentes y los que se dictaren posteriormente. Cuando se trate de zonas donde se lleven a cabo hostilidades, de zonas de ocupación militar o de zonas afectadas por ellas, este servicio estará sujeto a la aprobación de las Autoridades militares competentes.

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- JAN. 8, 1947
ARTICULO III
Con el fin de evitar prácticas discriminatorias y asegurar la igualdad de tratamiento, ambas Partes Contratantes acuerdan que :
a) Cada una de ellas podrá imponer o permitir que se le imponga tarifas justas y razonables para el uso de los aeropuertos públicos, u otras facilidades bajo su control. Cada Parte Contratante conviene sin embargo, que estas tarifas no serán mayores que las que pagarían por el uso de dichos aeropuertos, y facilidades para sus aeronaves nacionales empleadas en servicios similares internacionales.
b) El combustible, aceites, lubricantes y piezas de repuestos introducidos en el territorio de una de las Partes Contratantes por la otra Parte Contratante o sus nacionales, para el uso exclusivo de las aeronaves de las líneas aéreas de dicha Parte Contratante, estarán sujetos al mismo tratamiento que se da a dichos materiales destinados a las líneas aéreas nacionales o las líneas aéreas de la Nación más favorecida, en lo que respecta a derechos de aduana, tarifas de inspección, o cualquier gravamen o derecho nacional impuesto por la Parte Contratante a cuyo territorio se introduzcan.
c) El combustible, aceites lubricantes, piezas de repuestos , equipo corriente y el abastecimiento que se transporten a bordo de las aeronaves civiles de las líneas aéreas de una de las Partes Contratantes autorizada a operar las rutas y servicios que se describen en el Anexo , deberán, al llegar o dejar el territorio de la otra Parte Contratante, ser exonerados de derechos de aduana , de derechos de inspección o de otros derechos similares, aún cuando tales materiales sean usados o consumidos por dichas aeronaves en vuelos sobre dicho territorio.
ARTICULO IV
Los Certificados de navegabilidad aérea , los certificados de competencia y licencias, expedidos o revalidados por una de las Partes Contratantes y aún en vigencia serán reconocidos como válidos por la otra Parte Contratante con el fin de operar las rutas y servicios descritos en el Anexo. Cada Parte Contratante, se reserva el derecho, sin embargo, cuando se trata de vuelos sobre su propio territorio, de rehusar el reconocimiento de tales certificados de competencia y licencias expedidos a sus propios nacionales por las autoridades de cualquier otro Estado.
ARTICULO V
a) Las leyes y reglamentos de una de las Partes Contratantes , relacionados con la admisión en, o partida de, su territorio de las aeronaves dedicadas a la navegación aérea internacional, o relacionados con las operaciones y navegación de dichas aeronaves, mientras estén dentro de su territorio, se aplicarán a las aeronaves de las líneas aéreas designadas por la otra Parte Contratante y se cumplirán por dichas aeronaves a la entrada, salida o mientras permanezcan en el territorio de la primera Parte Contratante.
b) Las Leyes y Reglamentos de una de las Partes Contratantes

2783

2784

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
referentes a la entrada en, o salida de su territorio de pasajeros, tripulaciones o carga de aeronaves, tales como Reglamentos relacionados con la entrada, despacho inmigración, pasaportes, aduanas y cuarentenas, deberán cumplirse por los pasajeros, tripulaciones o carga de las líneas aéreas designadas por la otra Parte Contratante o por los representantes de los mismos, a la entrada , salida o mientras permanezca la aeronave en el territorio de la primera Parte Contratante.
ARTICULO VI Cada Parte Contratante se reserva el derecho de no otorgar o, de revocar el permiso de operaciones de una línea aérea designada por la Parte Contratante en el caso de que dicha línea aérea no sea en manera substancial de propiedad de nacionales de la otra Parte Contratante, y no se halle bajo el efectivo control de los nacionales de dicha Parte, o en cualquier caso en que una línea aérea designada por la otra Parte Contratante no cumpliere con las Leyes y Reglamentos de la Parte Contratante sobre cuyo territorio estuviere operando, tal como se describen en el Artículo 5 , o que de otra manera dejara de cumplir con las condiciones bajo las cuales se conceden los derechos contemplados en este Acuerdo y su anexo ; o en caso de que las aeronaves en servicio no estén tripuladas por nacionales de la otra Parte Contratante, excepto cuando las dotaciones se hallen recibiendo adiestramiento.
ARTICULO VII
Este Acuerdo y todos los contratos relacionados con el mismo , deberán registrarse en la Organización Provisional de Aviación Civil Internacional o la Entidad que le suceda.
ARTICULO VIII
Los derechos y privilegios existentes referentes a servicios de transporte aéreo los cuales pueden haber sido concedidos previamente por cualquiera de las Partes Contratantes para una línea aérea de la otra Parte Contratante continuarán en vigor de acuerdo con sus condiciones.
ARTICULO IX
Este Acuerdo o cualquiera de los derechos para el servicio de transporte aéreo otorgado por este Acuerdo, podrán darse por terminados, sin perjuicio de lo dispuesto en el Artículo 8. por cualquiera de las Partes Contratantes, mediante aviso previo de un año a la otra Parte Contratante.
ARTICULO X
En el caso de que cualquiera de las Partes Contratantes deseara modificar las rutas o condiciones establecidas en el Anexo, podrá solicitar consultas entre las Autoridades competentes de las dos Partes Contratantes, debiendo iniciarse dichas consultas dentro de un período de sesenta díás a partir de la fecha de la solicitud . Cuando dichas Autoridades estén de acuerdo en que las circunstancias han cambiado, o que han surgido nuevas circunstancias, haciéndose conveniente modi-

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JAN. 8, 1947
ficar el Anexo, las recomendaciones que hagan las autoridades sobre el asunto , se llevarán a efecto después de haber sido confirmadas por un intercambio de notas diplomáticas.
ARTICULO XI
Salvo las estipulaciones en contrario del presente Acuerdo o de su Anexo, cualquiera divergencia entre las Partes Contratantes relativa a la interpretación o aplicación del presente Acuerdo o de su Anexo, que no pudiere ser resuelta por medio de consultas, deberá ser sometida al Consejo Provisional de la Organización Provisional de Aviación Civil Internacional (en conformidad con las disposiciones del Artículo III, Sección seis "8" del Convenio Provisional sobre Aviación Civil Internacional, suscrito en Chicago el 7 de diciembre de 1944 ) o del Organismo que le sucediera, para su opinión consultiva , a menos que las Partes Contratantes acordaren someter la divergencia a un Tribunal Arbitral designado en virtud de Acuerdo entre las mismas Partes Contratantes, o a alguna otra persona u organismo. Las Autoridades Ejecutivas de cada una de las Partes Contratantes se comprometen a hacer uso de sus mejores esfuerzos bajo los Poderes que ejercieran para hacer cumplir la decisión expresada en tal fallo.
ARTICULO XII
De entrar en vigor una Convención multilateral aérea general o suscrita por ambas Partes Contratantes, las disposiciones del presente Acuerdo deberán modificarse y conformarse a las de la citada Convención.
ARTICULO XIII
A los fines de este Acuerdo y de su Anexo, salvo cuando el texto disponga otra cosa :
a) La Expresión "Autoridades Aeronáuticas", significará, en el caso de los Estados Unidos de América, la Junta de Aeronáutica Civil y cualquier persona u organismo autorizado a ejercer las funciones actuales de la Junta de Aeronáutica Civil o funciones similares, y en el caso de la República del Ecuador, el Ministro de Defensa Nacional o cualquier organismo o persona autorizados a ejercer las funciones de dicho Ministro o funciones similares.
b) La expresión "líneas aéreas designadas", significará aquellas Empresas de transporte aéreo, respecto a las cuales las Autoridades Aeronáuticas de una de las Partes Contratantes, hayan comunicado por escrito a las Autoridades Aeronáuticas de la otra Parte Contratante, que son las Empresas aéreas por esta última designadas, de conformidad con las estipulaciones anteriormente expuestas, con respecto a las rutas especificadas en la indicada designación.
ARTICULO XIV
Este Acuerdo, incluyendo las disposiciones del Anexo , entrará en vigencia al ser ratificado por el Ecuador, de conformidad con el procedimiento que establece su Carta Política.

2785

2786

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
En fé de lo cual, los Plenipotenciarios antes nombrados, firman el presente Acuerdo y lo signan con sus sellos respectivos, en los idiomas español e inglés, cada uno de los cuales de idéntica autenticidad.
Hecho en Quito, a 8 de Enero de 1947.
Por el Gobierno del Ecuador E. ARÍZAGA TORAL
Por el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América R.M. SCOTTEN

[SEAL]

[ SEAL]

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JAN. 8, 1947
ANEXO AL ACUERDO SOBRE TRANSPORTE AEREO COMERCIAL ENTRE EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS Y EL GOBIERNO DEL ECUADOR.
SECCION 1 .
Ambas Partes Contratantes convienen :
A. Que las líneas aéreas de ambas Partes Contratantes que operan en las rutas descritas en el presente Anexo , gozarán de justas e iguales oportunidades en la explotación de las rutas mencionadas.
B. Que la capacidad del transporte aéreo ofrecida por las líneas aéreas de ambos países, deberá guardar una estrecha relación con las necesidades del movimiento aéreo.
C. Que en las operaciones de las secciones comunes de las rutas troncales, las líneas aéreas de las Partes Contratantes deberán tener en cuenta sus intereses recíprocos a fin de no afectar indebidamente sus respectivos servicios.
D. Que los servicios prestados por una línea aérea designada de acuerdo con los términos de este Acuerdo y su Anexo , tendrán como objetivo principal ofrecer una capacidad adecuada a las demandas del movimiento aéreo entre el país al que pertenece la línea aérea y lugares bajo su jurisdicción y el país de destino.
E. Que el derecho de embarcar y desembarcar en lugares bajo la jurisdicción de la otra Parte Contratante, todo lo que intervenga en el movimiento internacional con destino a, o procedente de terceros países en un punto o puntos que a continuación se especifican, será ejercido en conformidad con los principios generales del desarrollo ordenado, aceptados por los dos Gobiernos y se sujetará al principio general que la capacidad debe guardar relación con :
1. Las necesidades del movimiento aéreo entre el país de origen y lugares bajo su jurisdicción , y los países de destino ;
2. Las necesidades de operar una línea aérea de extremo a extremo ; y,
3. Las necesidades del movimiento aéreo existente en las zonas atravesadas, tomando en cuenta los servicios locales y regionales.
F. Las Autoridades Aeronáuticas competentes de ambas Partes Contratantes, se consultarán periódicamente o a pedido de una de ellas, para determinar hasta qué punto los principios enunciados en la Cláusula E. de este Anexo están siendo observados por las líneas aéreas designadas por las Partes Contratantes, a fin de evitar que a cualquiera de las líneas aéreas designadas se le reste una parte desproporcionada del movimiento aéreo a causa de la violación de un principio o de los principios enunciados en cualquier parte de este Acuerdo o de su Anexo.
SECCION 2.
A. Las líneas aéreas de los Estados Unidos de América designadas conforme al presente Acuerdo , gozarán de los derechos de tránsito , de escalas para fines no comerciales, en el territorio de la República del Ecuador, así como del derecho de embarcar y desembarcar pasajeros,

2787

2788

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
carga y correo de tránsito internacional en Quito, Guayaquil, Riobamba, Esmeraldas , Manta, Salinas, Cuenca y Loja, en las siguientes rutas vía puntos intermedios en ambas direcciones :
1. Los Estados Unidos, y/o la Zona del Canal , a Quito, Riobamba , Esmeraldas, Manta , Salinas, Guayaquil, Cuenca y Loja ; y desde el Ecuador :
a)-Desde Quito a Ipiales, Colombia, b)-A puntos en Perú, y a puntos fuera del Perú.
2.- Los Estados Unidos a Quito y Guayaquil y de ahí al Perú y otros puntos fuera de este país.
En la ruta arriba indicada, la línea aérea o las líneas aéreas autorizadas para operar dicha ruta, podrán efectuar vuelos sin escalas entre cualquiera de los puntos enumerados, omitiendo escalas en uno o más de los otros puntos enumerados.
B. Las líneas aéreas del Ecuador designadas conforme al presente Acuerdo, gozarán de los derechos de tránsito, de escalas para fines no comerciales en el territorio de los Estados Unidos, y del derecho de embarcar y desembarcar pasajeros, carga y correo de tránsito internacional, en un punto o puntos en el territorio de los Estados Unidos, para una ruta o rutas acordadas por los Gobiernos del Ecuador y Estados Unidos , en la fecha en que el Gobierno del Ecuador deseare comenzar las operaciones.
En la ruta arriba indicada , la línea aérea o líneas aéreas autorizadas para operar dicha ruta, podrán efectuar vuelos sin escalas entre cualquiera de los puntos enumerados, omitiendo escalas en uno o más de los otros puntos enumerados.

61 STAT.] SIAM- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-FEB. 26, 1947

2789

Agreement between the United States of America and Siam respecting air transport services. Signed at Bangkok February 26, 1947; effective February 26, 1947.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SIAM RELATING TO AIR SERVICES BETWEEN THEIR RESPECTIVE TERRITORIES

February 26, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1607]

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Kingdom of Siam,
Having in mind the resolution signed under date of December 7, 1944, [1 ] at the International Civil Aviation Conference in Chicago, for the adoption of a standard form of agreement for air routes and services, and the desirability of mutually stimulating and promoting the further development of air transportation between the United States of America and the Kingdom of Siam, the two Governments parties to this arrangement have appointed their representatives, who, duly authorized , have agreed that the establishment and development of air transport services between their respective territories shall be governed by the following provisions :
ARTICLE 1

Each contracting party grants to the other contracting party the rights as specified in the Annex hereto necessary for establishing the international civil air routes and services therein described , whether such services be inaugurated immediately or at a later date at the option of the contracting party to whom the rights are granted.

Post, p. 2793.

ARTICLE 2

Each of the air services so described shall be placed in operation

Inauguration of air services .

as soon as the contracting party to whom the rights have been granted Article 1 to designate an airline or airlines for the route concerned
has authorized an airline for such route, and the contracting party granting the rights shall, subject to Article 6 hereof, be bound to give the appropriate operating permission to the airline or airlines con-

Post, p. 2791.

cerned ; provided that the airlines so designated may be required to qualify before the competent aeronautical authorities of the contract-

ing party granting the rights under the laws and regulations normally applied by these authorities before being permitted to engage in the operations contemplated by this agreement ; and provided that in

1 ¹ [International Civil Aviation Conference, Chicago, Illinois, November 1 to
December 7, 1944, Final Act and Related Documents, Department of State publication 2282.]

95347°-49-- PT. III- -33

2790

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

areas of hostilities or of military occupation , or in areas affected thereby, such inauguration shall be subject to the approval of the competent military authorities.

Charges. Post, p. 2793.

ARTICLE 3
In order to prevent discriminatory practices and to assure equality of treatment, both contracting parties agree that :
(a) Each of the contracting parties may impose or permit to be imposed just and reasonable charges for the use of public airports and other facilities under its control. Each of the contracting parties agrees, however, that these charges shall not be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services.
(b) Fuel, lubricating oils and spare parts introduced into the territory of one contracting party by the other contracting party or its nationals, and intended solely for use by aircraft of such contracting party shall, with respect to the imposition of customs duties, inspection fees or other national duties or charges by the contracting party whose territory is entered, be accorded the same treatment as that applying to national airlines and to airlines of the most- favorednation.
( c ) The fuel, lubricating oils , spare parts, regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board civil aircraft of the airlines of one contracting party authorized to operate the routes and services described in the Annex shall , upon arriving in or leaving the territory of the other contracting party, be exempt from customs, inspection fees or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used or consumed by such aircraft on flights in that territory.

ARTICLE 4

Certificates of airworthiness, etc.

Certificates of airworthiness, certificates of competency and licenses

issued or rendered valid by one contracting party shall be recognized as

Post, p. 2793.

valid by the other contracting party for the purpose of operating the routes and services described in the Annex. Each contracting party

reserves the right, however, to refuse to recognize, for the purpose of

flight above its own territory, certificates of competency and licenses granted to its own nationals by another State.

ARTICLE 5

Laws and regula.

tions.

(a) The laws and regulations of one contracting party relating to

the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged in

international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of

such aircraft while within its territory , shall be applied to the aircraft

of the other contracting party, and shall be complied with by such air-

craft upon entering or departing from or while within the territory of the first party.

(b) The laws and regulations of one contracting party as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers, crew, or cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance, im-

61 STAT.] SIAM-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-FEB. 26, 1947

2791

migration, passports, customs, and quarantine shall be complied with by or on behalf of such passengers, crew or cargo of the other contracting party upon entrance into or departure from, or while within the territory of the first party.

ARTICLE 6

Each contracting party reserves the right to withhold or revoke the certificate or permit of an airline designated by the other contracting party in the event it is not satisfied that substantial ownership and effective control of such airline are vested in nationals of the other

Withholding or revocation of certifi-
cate or permit.

contracting party, or in case of failure by the airline designated by the

other contracting party to comply with the laws and regulations of the contracting party over whose territories it operates, as described

in Article 5 hereof, or otherwise to fulfill the conditions under which the rights are granted in accordance with this agreement and its annex.

Post, p.2793.

ARTICLE 7

This agreement and all contracts connected therewith shall be regis-

tered with the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization,

or its successor body.

ARTICLE 8

Registration .

This agreement or any of the rights for air transport services granted thereunder may be terminated by either contracting party upon giving one year's notice to the other contracting party.

Termination.

ARTICLE 9
Modification of In the event either of the contracting parties considers it desirable routes or conditions.
Post, p. 2793. to modify the routes or conditions set forth in the attached Annex, it may request consultation between the competent authorities of both
contracting parties, such consultation to begin within a period of sixty
days from the date of the request. When these authorities mutually agree on new or revised conditions affecting the Annex, their recom-
mendations on the matter will come into effect after they have been confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes.

ARTICLE 10
If a general multilateral air transport Convention enters into force in relation to both contracting parties, the present agreement shall be amended so as to conform with the provisions of such Convention.

Amendment .

ARTICLE 11

Any dispute between the contracting parties relating to the interpretation or application of this Agreement or its Annex which cannot be settled through consultation shall be referred for an advisory report to the Interim Council of the Provisional International Civil Aviation
Organization ( in accordance with the provisions of Article III Section 6 (8) ofthe Interim Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944) or its successor.

Disputes. 59 Stat. 1521.

2792 Entry into force.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. ARTICLE 12

This agreement, including the provisions of the Annex thereto , will come into force on the day it is signed.
In witness whereof, the undersigned , being duly authorized by their respective Governments, have signed the present agreement.
Done in duplicate at Bangkok this twenty-sixth day of February in the nineteen hundred and forty-seventh year of the Christian Era, corresponding to the two thousand four hundred and ninetieth year of the Buddhist Era, in the English language.

For the Government of the United States of America :

[SEAL ]

EDWIN F. STANTON EDWIN F. STANTON

For the Government of the Kingdom of Siam :

[SEAL]

T. THAMRONG NAWASAWAT. T. THAMRONG NAWASAWAT

61 STAT. ] SIAM-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-FEB. 26, 1947

2793

ANNEX TO AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SIAM RELATING TO AIR SERVICES BETWEEN THEIR RESPECTIVE TERRITORIES.

A. Airlines of the United States, authorized under the present agree- it Ua.nSd.srtiogphtisn oSfitaramn.sment, are accorded rights of transit and non-traffic stop in the territory of Siam , as well as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers, cargo, and mail at Bangkok, on the following route via intermediate points ; in both directions :

1. The United States over a Pacific route to Bangkok and beyond.

B. Airlines of Siam, authorized under the present agreement, are

Siamese rights of transit and stop in

accorded rights of transit and non-traffic stop in the territory of the U.S.

United States of America , as well as the right to pick up and discharge

international traffic in passengers, cargo, and mail at Los Angeles and

Honolulu on the following route via intermediate points ; in both directions :

1. Siam to Los Angeles over reasonably direct route.

C. In the establishment and operation of air services covered by this

Agreement and its Annex, the following principles shall apply :

Encouragement of 1. The two contracting parties desire to foster and encourage the air travel.
widest possible distribution of the benefits of air travel for the gen-
eral good of mankind at the cheapest rates consistent with sound

economic principles ; and to stimulate international air travel as a

means of promoting friendly understanding and good will among peoples and insuring as well the many indirect benefits of this new form of transportation to the common welfare of both countries.
2. There shall be a fair and equal opportunity for the airlines ofthe

Equal opportunity.

two contracting parties to operate on their respective routes. 3. It is the understanding of both contracting parties that services
provided by a designated air carrier under the Agreement and its Annex shall retain as their primary objective the provision of ca-

Capacity.

pacity adequate to the traffic demands between the country of which such air carrier is a national and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic. The right to embark and disembark on such services international traffic destined for and coming from third countries

Right to embark,

at a point or points on the routes specified in the Annex to the Agreement shall be applied in accordance with the general principles of

orderly development to which both contracting parties subscribe and shall be subject to the general principle that capacity should be related :

(a) to traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination ;
(b) tothe requirements of through airline operation, and (c) to the traffic requirements of the area through which the airline passes after taking into consideration local and regional services.

2794 Consultation.
Ante, p. 2791.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
4. The contracting parties should undertake regular and frequent consultation between their respective aeronautical authorities so that there should be close collaboration in observance of the principles and the implementation of the provisions outlined in the Agreement and its Annex, and in case of dispute the matter shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of Article 11 of the Agreement.

61 STAT.]

Nov. 20, 1946 FRANCE-PASSPORT VISA FEES- Dec. 10, 1946

2795

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting passport visa fees. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington November 20 and December 10, 1946; effective January 1 , 1947.

November 20 and December 10, 1946
[T. I. A. S. 1608]

The Secretary of State to the French Ambassador

The Secretary of State presents his compliments to His Excellency

the Ambassador of the French Republic and has the honor to refer to

a conversation between Mr. Strauss and a member of the Department

regarding the conclusion of an agreement between the Government of

the French Republic and the United States Government relating to

visa fees for nonimmigrants who are nationals of either country, to take the place of the present agreement.
It is understood that effective January 1 , 1947 , the French authori-

52 Stat. 1513.
61 Stat., Pt. 4, p. 3776 Effective date. Fees for visa of U.S.

ties will collect the following fees for the visa of a valid American passport.

passport covering the persons included therein who are members of

the immediate family, entering France or any of its possessions : (1 )
transit visa valid for a stay not exceeding fifteen days, 325 francs ;
(2) visa valid for a stay for a period of sixteen days to one year, 400
francs ; and (3) visa valid for a stay exceeding one year, 1200 francs. Fees for visa of
The United States authorities will, on a corresponding basis, col- French passport. lect the following fees for the visa of a valid French passport covering
the persons included therein who are members of the immediate

family, entering the United States or any of its possessions : (1 ) transit visa valid for one or more entries during a period of one year from the date of issuance for such period as the immigration authorities may prescribe, not to exceed sixty days, $2.75 ; and (2 ) a nonimmigrant passport visa valid for one or more entries during a period of one year from the date of issuance for such period as the immigration authorities may prescribe, subject to extension by such authorities without charge, $3.50 .
It will be appreciated if the Department may be informed whether the French Government is agreeable to the adoption of the foregoing schedule of visa fees for nonimmigrants who are bearers of French passports or American passports, in order that appropriate instructions may be sent to American diplomatic and consular officers .

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, November 20 1946

GJH

2796

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The French Embassy to the Department of State

AMBASSADE DE FRANCE AUX ETATS-UNIS
SERVICE CONSULAIRE

No. 557 SCA-4-1

WASHINGTON, le 10 Décembre 1946.

L'Ambassade de France présente ses compliments au Département d'Etat et a l'honneur de lui faire savoir que son gouvernement a accepté la proposition contenue dans la note du Département d'Etat en date du 20 Novembre, concernant un accord de réciprocité sur le tarif des visas de passeports.

Il est entendu qu'à partir du 1er Janvier 1947 , les autorités fran-

çaises appliqueront le tarif suivant pour les visas apposés sur des passeports américains valables pour la personne pour laquelle il a été délivré et les membres de sa famille immédiate y mentionnés , se rendant en France ou dans un territoire français:

(1 ) Visa de transit valable 15 jours au maximum: (2) Visa d'entrée valable 16 jours à 1 an: (3) Visa d'entrée valable plus d'un an:

325 francs 400 francs 1200 francs

Les autorités américaines , réciproquement, appliqueront le tarif suivant pour les visas apposés sur des passeports français valables pour la personne pour laquelle il a été délivré et les membres de sa
famille immédiate y mentionnés, se rendant aux Etats-Unis ou dans un territoire américain :

( 1 ) Visa de transit valable pour une ou plusieurs entrées pendant 1

an et au maximum, pour chaque séjour, pendant 60 jours :

$2.75

(2) Visa de non-immigrant valable 1 an pour une ou plusieurs entrées ,

ce visa donnant droit à des séjours d'une durée qui doit être fixée par

le service de l'immigration , susceptible d'être renouvelée sans frais

par ces autorités :

$2.50

(3 ) Visa valable plus d'un an (visa d'immigrant) :

$ 10.00 ./.

L'Ambassade de France est heureuse de saisir l'occasion de la

présente note pour renouveler au Département d'Etat les assurances de sa très haute considération.
FL

DÉPARTEMENT D'ETAT, Washington, D.C.

61 STAT.]

FRANCE-PASSPORT VISA FEES- Nov. 20, 1946 Dec. 10, 1946
Translation¹

DECEMBER 10 , 1946. The French Embassy presents its compliments to the Department of State and has the honor to advise that its government has accepted the proposition contained in the note of the Department of State under date of November 20 , regarding an agreement between American and French Governments relative to the fee of passports visas. It is understood that effective January 1 , 1947 the French authorities will collect the following fees for the visa of a valid American passport covering the persons included therein who are members of the immediate family, entering France or any of its possessions :
(1 ) transit visa valid for a stay not exceeding fifteen days , 325 francs ; (2) visa valid for a stay for a period of sixteen days to one year, 400 francs ;
(3 ) visa valid for a stay exceeding one year, 1200 francs.
The United States authorities will, on a corresponding basis, collect the following fees for the visa of a valid French passport covering the persons included therein who are members of the immediate family , entering the United States or any of its possessions :
(1 ) transit visa valid for one or more entries during a period of one year from the date of issuance for such period as the immigration authorities may prescribe , not to exceed sixty days, $2.75 ; (2) a non immigrant passport visa valid for one or more entries during a period of one year from the date of issuance for such period as the immigration authorities may prescribe, subject to extension by such authorities without charge, $3.50 ;
(3) visa valid for more than one year (immigrant visa) , $ 10.00 ./.
The French Embassy seizes this opportunity to renew to the Department of State the assurances of its highest consideration. DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, D. C.

¹ [As received from the French Embassy, Washington, D. C. ]

2797

61 STAT. ] CHINA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-DEC. 20, 1946

2799

Agreement and accompanying exchange of notes between the United States of America and China respecting air transport services. Signed at Nanking December 20, 1946; entered into force December 20, 1946.

December 20, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1609]

[ SEAL] [ SEAL ]
AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND
THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA

2800

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Post, p. 2804.

Having in mind the resolution signed under date of December 7 , 1944, [ 1 ] at the International Civil Aviation Conference in Chicago, Illinois, for the adoption of a standard form of agreement for provisional air routes and services, and the desirability of mutually stimulating and promoting the sound economic development of air transportation between the United States of America and the Republic ofChina, the two Governments parties to this Agreement agree that the establishment and development of air transport services between their respective territories shall be governed by the following provisions :
Article 1
The contracting parties grant the rights specified in the Annex hereto necessary for establishing the international civil air routes and services therein described, whether such services be inaugurated immediately or at a later date at the option of the contracting party to whom the rights are granted.

Article 2

Inauguration of air

services .

(a) Each of the air services so described shall be placed in operation

as soon as the contracting party to whom the right has been granted

by Article 1 to designate an airline or airlines for the route concerned

Post, p. 2802.

has authorized an airline for such route, and the contracting party granting the right shall, subject to Article 7 hereof, be bound to give

the appropriate operating permission to the airline or airlines con-

cerned ; provided that the airline so designated may be required to qualify before the competent aeronautical authorities of the contract-

ing party granting the rights under the laws and regulations normally applied by these authorities before being permitted to engage in the operations contemplated by this Agreement ; and provided that in areas of hostilities or of military occupation, or in areas affected thereby, such inauguration shall be subject to the approval of the competent military authorities.

(b) It is understood that the contracting parties should undertake to exercise the commercial rights granted under this Agreement at the earliest practicable date except in the case of temporary inability to do so.
Article 3

Operating rights which may have been granted previously by either of the contracting parties to any State not a party to this Agreement or to an airline shall continue in force according to their terms.
1 ¹ [International Civil Aviation Conference, Chicago, Illinois, November 1 to December 7, 1944 , Final Act and Related Documents, Department of State publication 2282. ]

61 STAT. ] CHINA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- DEC. 20, 1946

2801

Article 4
In order to prevent discriminatory practices and to assure equality of treatment, it is agreed that :
(a) Each of the contracting parties may impose or permit to be imposed just and reasonable charges for the use of airports and other facilities. Each of the contracting parties agrees, however , that these charges shall not be higher than those which would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services.
(b) Fuel, lubricating oils and spare parts introduced into the territory of one contracting party by the other contracting party or its nationals and intended solely for use by aircraft of such other contracting party shall be accorded national and most-favored-nation treatment with respect to the imposition of customs duties, inspection fees or other national duties or charges by the contracting party whose territory is entered.
(c) The fuel, lubricating oils, spare parts, regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board civil aircraft of the airlines of one contracting party authorized to operate the routes and services described in the Annex shall, upon arriving in or leaving the territory of the other contracting party, be exempt from customs, inspection fees or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used or consumed by such aircraft on flights in that territory.

Oharges. Post, p. 2804.

Article 5

Certificates of airworthiness, certificates of competency and licenses issued or rendered valid by one contracting party shall be recognized as valid by the other contracting party for the purpose of operating the routes and services described in the Annex. Each contracting party reserves the right, however, to refuse to recognize, for the purpose of flight above its own territory, certificates of competency and licenses granted to its own nationals by another State.

Certificates of airworthiness, etc.
Post, p. 2804.

Article 6
Laws and regula(a) The laws and regulations of one contracting party relating to tions. the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged in international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of such aircraft while within its territory, shall be applied to the aircraft of the other contracting party without distinction as to nationality, and shall be complied with by such aircraft upon entering or departing from or while within the territory of that contracting party. (b) The laws and regulations of one contracting party as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers , crew, or
cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance , immigration, passports, customs, and quarantine shall be complied with by or on behalf of such passengers, crew, or cargo of the aircraft of the other contracting party upon entrance into or departure from or while within the territory of that contracting party.

2802

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Article 7

Withholding or revocation of certificate Substantial ownership and effective control of airlines of each con-

or permit.

tracting party authorized under this Agreement shall be vested in

nationals of that contracting party. Each contracting party reserves the right to withhold or revoke the certificate or permit of any airline of the other contracting party in case of failure of such airline to

comply with the laws of the State over which it operates, as described in Article 6 hereof, or otherwise to fulfill the conditions under which

Post, p . 2804.

the rights are granted in accordance with this Agreement and its Annex .

Article 8

Registration.

This Agreement and all contracts connected therewith shall be registered with the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization, or its successor.
Article 9

Disputes. 59 Stat. 1521.

Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or in its Annex, any dispute between the contracting parties relating to the interpretation or application of this Agreement or its Annex which cannot be settled through consultation shall be referred, for an advisory report, to the Interim Council of the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization (in accordance with the provisions of Article III, Section 6 (8 ) of the Interim Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944 ) or its successor.

Article 10

For the purposes of this Agreement and its Annex, unless the con-

text otherwise requires :

"Aeronautical au. thorities."

(a) The term "aeronautical authorities" shall mean, in the case of

the United States of America, the Civil Aeronautics Board and any

person or body authorized to perform the functions presently exer-

cised by the Board or similar functions, and, in the case of the Republic

of China, the Minister of Communications for the time being, and any

person or body authorized to perform any functions presently exercised by the said Minister or similar functions.

lin"eD."esignated air- (b) The term "designated airline" shall mean the air transport enterprises which the aeronautical authorities of one of the contract-

ing parties have notified in writing to the aeronautical authorities of

the other contracting party as the airlines designated by it in accord-

" Territory . "

ance with paragraph ( a) of Article 2 of this Agreement for the routes specified in such notification.
( c) The term "territory" shall have the meaning assigned to it

by Article 2 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation signed

p.611181S. tat . , Pt . 2,

at Chicago on December 7, 1944. (d) The definitions contained in paragraphs ( a) , (b) and ( d ) of
Article 96 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation signed

p.611207S.tat . , Pt . 2. at Chicago on December 7, 1944 shall apply.

61 STAT. ] CHINA- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-DEC. 20, 1946

2803

Article 11

In the event either of the contracting parties considers it desirable to modify the routes or conditions set forth in the attached Annex, it may request consultation between the competent aeronautical authorities of both contracting parties, such consultation to begin within a period of 60 days from the date of the request. When these authorities mutually agree on new or revised conditions affecting the Annex, their recommendations on the matter will come into effect after they have been confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes.

Consultation.

Article 12

This Agreement shall continue in force for a period of four years Duration of agreement.
or until it may be superseded in order to conform with a general multilateral air transport convention which may enter into force in relation to both contracting parties. Upon the expiration of this Agreement its renewal for additional periods of time to be agreed upon may be effected by an exchange of diplomatic notes. It is understood and agreed, however, that this Agreement may be terminated by either contracting party upon giving one year's notice to the other contracting party. Such notice may be given at any time after a period of two months to allow for consultation between the contracting parties.
Article 13

This Agreement, including the provisions of the Annex hereto, will come into force on the day it is signed.

Entry into force.

Done in duplicate, in the English and Chinese languages, both equally authentic, at Nanking, this twentieth day of December, one thousand nine hundred forty-six, corresponding to the twentieth

Authentic languages.

day of the twelfth month of the thirty-fifth year of the Republic of China .

For the Government of the United States of America : J. LEIGHTON STUART

For the Government of the Republic of China : WANG SHIH-CHIEH



2804

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ANNEX

U.S.rights of transit and stop in Chi-

A. Airlines of the United States authorized under the present

nese territory.

Agreement are accorded rights of transit and nontraffic stop in Chinese

territory, as well as the right to pick up and discharge international

traffic in passengers, cargo and mail at Shanghai , Tientsin , and Canton,

as well as at such additional points as may be agreed upon from time to time, on the following routes, via intermediate points in both directions :

1. The United States over a Pacific route to Tientsin and Shanghai

and thence to the Philippine Islands and beyond, as well as beyond Shanghai via Route No. 3 described below.

2. The United States over a Pacific route to Shanghai and Canton and beyond.
3. The United States over an Atlantic route via intermediate

points in Europe, Africa , the Near East, India, Burma and Indo-

China to Canton and Shanghai and beyond.

On each of the above routes the airline authorized to operate such

route may operate nonstop flights between any of the points on such

route omitting stops at one or more of the other points on such route.

Chinese rights of transit and stop in

B. Airlines of China authorized under the present Agreement are

U. S. territory.

accorded rights of transit and nontraffic stop in the territory of the

United States, as well as the right to pick up and discharge inter-

national traffic in passengers, cargo and mail at San Francisco, New

York, and Honolulu , as well as at such additional points as may be

agreed upon from time to time, on the following routes, via inter-

mediate points in both directions :

1. China over a Pacific route via Tokyo, Kurile Islands, the Aleutian Islands and Alaska to San Francisco and beyond.
2. China over a Pacific route via the intermediate points of Manila, Guam , Wake, and Honolulu to San Francisco and beyond.
3. China over an Atlantic route via intermediate points in IndoChina, Burma, India, the Near East, Africa and Europe to New York and beyond.
On each of the above routes the airline authorized to operate such route may operate nonstop flights between any of the points on such route omitting stops at one or more of the other points on such route.

C. In the operation of the air services authorized under this Agreement, both contracting parties agree to the following principles and

objectives :

Equal opportunity.

1. Fair and equal opportunity for the airlines of each contracting party to operate air services on international routes, and the crea-

tion of machinery to obviate unfair competition by unjustifiable increases of frequencies or capacity ;

2. The elimination of formulae for the predetermination of frequencies or capacity or of any arbitrary division of air traffic

between countries and their national airlines ;

61 STAT. ] CHINA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-DEC. 20, 1946

2805

3. The adjustment of fifth freedom traffic with regard to :

(a) Traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination ;
(b) The requirements of through airline operation ; (c) The traffic requirements of the area through which the airline passes after taking account of local and regional services.
D. 1. Rates to be charged by the air carriers of either contracting party between points in the territory of the United States and points in the territory of China referred to in this Annex shall be subject to the approval of the contracting parties within their respective constitutional powers and obligations. In the event of disagreement the matter in dispute shall be handled as provided below.
2. The Civil Aeronautics Board of the United States having announced its intention to approve the rate conference machinery of the International Air Transport Association ( hereinafter called "IATA") , as submitted, for a period of one year beginning in February, 1946, any rate agreements concluded through this machinery during this period and involving United States air carriers will be subject to approval by the Board.
3. Any new rate proposed by the air carrier or carriers of either contracting party shall be filed with the aeronautical authorities of both contracting parties at least thirty days before the proposed date of introduction ; provided that this period of thirty days may be reduced in particular cases if so agreed by the aeronautical authorities of both contracting parties.
4. The contracting parties hereby agree that where :

Approval of rates. "IATA."

(a) during the period of the Board's approval of the IATA rate conference machinery, either any specific rate agreement is not approved within a reasonable time by either contracting party or a conference of IATA is unable to agree on a rate, or
(b) at any time no IATA machinery is applicable, or (c) either contracting party at any time withdraws or fails to renew its approval of that part of the IATA rate conference machinery relevant to this provision ,

the procedure described in paragraphs 5 , 6 and 7 hereof shall apply. 5. In the event that power is conferred by law upon the aero-
nautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic

Prevention of unfair or uneconomic
rates.

rates for the transport of persons and property by air on international services and to suspend proposed rates in a manner comparable to that in which the Civil Aeronautics Board at present is

empowered to act with respect to such rates for the transport of persons and property by air within the United States, each of the

contracting parties shall thereafter exercise its authority in such manner as to prevent any rate or rates proposed by one of its carriers for services from the territory of one contracting party to a point

or points in the territory of the other contracting party from becom-

ing effective, if in the judgment of the aeronautical authorities 95347°-49- PT. III- -34

2806

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

Notice of dissatisfaction with proposed new rate.
Provisional rate pending settlement of dispute.
Advisory report.
Fixing ofrates.

of the contracting party whose air carrier or carriers is or are proposing such rate, that rate is unfair or uneconomic. If one of the contracting parties on receipt of the notification referred to in
paragraph 3 above is dissatisfied with the new rate proposed by the air carrier or carriers of the other contracting party, it shall so notify the other contracting party prior to the expiry of the first fifteen of the thirty days referred to , and the contracting parties shall endeavour to reach agreement on the appropriate rate. In the event that such agreement is reached each contracting party will exercise its statutory powers to give effect to such agreement. If agreement has not been reached at the end of the thirty day period referred to in paragraph 3 above, the proposed rate may, unless the aeronautical authorities of the country of the air carrier concerned see fit to suspend its operation , go into effect provisionally pending the settlement of any dispute in accordance with the procedure outlined in paragraph 7 below.
6. Prior to the time when such power may be conferred by law upon the aeronautical authorities of the United States, if one of the contracting parties is dissatisfied with any new rate proposed by the air carrier or carriers of either contracting party for services from the territory of one contracting party to a point or points in the territory of the other contracting party, it shall so notify the other prior to the expiry of the first fifteen of the thirty day period referred to in paragraph 3 above, and the contracting parties shall endeavour to reach agreement on the appropriate rate. In the event that such agreement is reached each contracting party will use its best efforts to cause such agreed rate to be put into effect by its air carrier or carriers. It is recognized that if no such agreement can be reached prior to the expiry of such thirty days, the contracting party raising the objection to the rate may take such steps as it may consider necessary to prevent the inauguration or continuation of the service in question at the rate complained of.
7. When in any case under paragraphs 5 and 6 above the aeronautical authorities of the two contracting parties cannot agree within a reasonable time upon the appropriate rate after consultation initiated by the complaint of one contracting party concerning the proposed rate or an existing rate of the air carrier or carriers of the other contracting party, upon the request of either , both contracting parties shall submit the question to the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization or to its successor for an advisory report, and each party will use its best efforts under the powers available to it to put into effect the opinion expressed in such report.
8. The rates to be agreed in accordance with the above paragraphs shall be fixed at reasonable levels, due regard being paid to all relevant factors, such as cost of operation , reasonable profit and the rates charged by any other air carriers.
9. The Executive Branch of the Government of the United States
agrees to use its best efforts to secure legislation empowering the

61 STAT. ] CHINA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-DEC. 20, 1946 aeronautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic rates for the transport of persons and property by air on international services and to suspend proposed rates in a manner comparable to that in which the Civil Aeronautics Board at present is empowered to act with respect to such rates for the transport of persons and property by air within the United States. J. LEIGHTON STUART
WANG SHIH-CHIEH

2807

61 STAT. ] CHINA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES -DEC. 20, 1946

2809

 





 

 

 

    

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

                                  ·                  ,             ,       :
                          ,       ,           ·
                           ,            ,      ,    ;      ,           ,            ;       ,             ,          ,             ;        ,          ,          )     ,        ,       

2810

61 STAT.] CHINA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- DEC. 20, 1946

2811

[1] [2 ]

    ,      ,  ·              
. ·

 







    

   ()   ()   () 

         

  

          

         

  









 

 ·   



   

         

      

  

   

      

 

 

    

 , 

.


    

     



     

 

                  

 



 

         

     

            

    :

 

  

     

 



 

  









 













2 [WANG SHIH-CHIEH ] * [J. L. S. ]

2812

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

A .
   ·
) (        
   ;     



   ,  

 





 



 







 

 

 

   

  





   

 





 

 

 

 



· .







 



 

       

 







 





  



 



    

    ()     
            

   
     





 



   ,    



   

  

  





 

    



 

 



 

     

  

 



 





    ; 

 

      

61 STAT. ] CHINA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-DEC. 20, 1946

2813

  ,              
        ,            

* ..

  
  () 

 

 

 









.

  





   



 



   



"

  

 

   

 



 



 

          .      

    

 

 







  

 

 

 

  

 

  

 







  







  

   

(x)

  

  

  



  

  





 

 

    

 

  

 

    

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

        ,                                           
·                            
                           ,   
                ,   
       ,                                         ,           
  
          ,               ,             ,   .      ,              ,                .         

2814

61 STAT. ] CHINA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- DEC. 20, 1946

       

  

 : 



1 2 [J.

LIGHTON

STUART

* [WANG SHIH-CHIEH ]

:



,



   

       

        

 ==

 

+  +  

   

 

 

 

 





 



2815

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.



          ,           

     ,     ·  ·         
     ,      ·      :
.  )      ,            

 ,          

 ) (      ,   ·      

     ,   ·     ·    

    ·     

            ,          

    ,             

         

·           

     ,       ·        

                :

1     ,   ·   ·      

      

) (      ,    ·  ·     

2816

2817

      

61 STAT. ] CHINA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-DEC. 20, 1946

     ,   ·  ·  ·      

        

,

                          ,               

            ,          1                  ,        ;    ,                   

) 1           ,         

        ,        ,      

·    :

             ;

      ;

§         ,          

 H                     

         ,             

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

   ,        ,    ,     



      ,          
·   ,        ,       ,  

            ,      

                  ,   

              ;    

  ,      ,         ,   

     ,           ,   

 ,   :

              ,    

       ,       ,    

     , 
A          

 

                   

 ,    ,    ,                       

   

2818

61 STAT. ] CHINA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- DEC. 20, 1946

2819

. .



     

               



   



  







  

         

  

             



               ,



    



 

  



    

               

         

   

            



  

    



  ,     

 

    

  

  

       

     



             



   

 

    

       

     ,

   ,     

 



·

 

 

   ,  

  

     



  .





  



    ,  

,         

      , 

               

       


    

     

 

2820

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

()



.

· ·

       

   

              

 



     

             





       

       

    

 



     

        

.



   

 



  











      

 









  

   

    

 

  

       









A

 

         

       





--

   

heightentterJ is. =t

    

  

  

 



   

       

 

         

 



     



[ *]



 

   

 





 

  



 

.    





 





 

  

 

   

1 [J. LEIGHTON STUART] 2 [WANG SHIH-CHIEH ]

61 STAT. ] CHINA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-DEC. 20, 1946 EXCHANGE OF NOTES

2821

Note From the American Ambassador to the Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs

EXCELLENCY :

AMERICAN EMBASSY, NANKING, December 20, 1946

I have the honor to refer to the Air Transport Agreement signed today between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of China, and to state that , in connection with this Agreement, it is the understanding of my Government that the following points have been collaterally agreed to :
(a) Until such time as the airport facilities at Tientsin are enlarged and improved to the extent necessary to accommodate

Ante, p. 2799.
Permission to land at Peiping.

aircraft flying on the international route serving the traffic point of Tientsin as designated in the aforesaid Agreement, aircraft serving this route will be permitted by the Government of China to land for international traffic purposes at

Peiping. (b) There will be no objection if United States carriers designated
to serve Routes 2 and 3 described in paragraph "A" of the Annex, serve Hongkong instead of Canton at the option of the

Optional service. Ante, p. 2804.

United States Government ; provided, however, no shuttle service will be operated by the designated United States carriers between Hongkong and any one of the points in Chinese territory mentioned in the Annex attached to the Agreement. Furthermore, the United States carrier designated to serve Route No. 2, described in paragraph "A" of the Annex, will have the right to connect with its mid-Pacific service at Can-

ton, in event the option to serve Canton instead of Hongkong

is exercised by the United States Government. Likewise, the

Chinese carriers designated to serve Routes numbered 1 and 2, described in paragraph "B" of the Annex will have the right to connect at San Francisco. (c) The Government of the United States is desirous of obtaining the right for United States carriers to serve other interna-

Ante, p. 2804.
Service by U. S. carriers to otherpoints in China.

tional traffic points in China beyond those mentioned in the present Agreement. The Government of China does not wish to extend these points at present but will be ready to give

prompt consideration thereto when conditions justify. (d) United States carriers will be authorized to serve additional

traffic points in Chinese territory as soon as the carriers of any

third country are so authorized, and on a basis of reciprocity Chinese carriers will also then be authorized to serve additional

points in United States territory. (e) The term "and beyond" as used in the Annex to the Agreement
means that the route so described may be extended beyond the territorial limits of the contracting party to one or more other

"And beyond." Ante, p. 2804.

countries. This term shall not be interpreted to commit either 95347°-49- PT. III- -35

2822

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Agreement adopting formulae for predetermination of frequen-
cies, etc.

contracting party to the granting of additional traffic points in its respective territories. (f) The Government of the United States agrees that if at any time it should enter into an agreement with any other nation adopting formulae for the predetermination of frequencies or capacity, it will enter into a similar agreement with the Government of China.

I shall be much obliged if Your Excellency will confirm the foregoing.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration .
J. LEIGHTON STUART His Excellency
DR. WANG SHIH-CHIEH ,
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Nanking.

Note in the English and Chinese Languages From the Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS , Nanking, December 20, 1946.
EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Note of Decem-
ber 20, 1946 which reads as follows :
"I have the honor to refer to the Air Transport Agreement signed today between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of China, and to state that, in connection with this Agreement, it is the understanding of my Government that the following points have been collaterally agreed to :
(a) Until such time as the airport facilities at Tientsin are enlarged and improved to the extent necessary to accommodate aircraft flying on the international route serving the traffic point of Tientsin as designated in the aforesaid Agreement, aircraft serving this route will be permitted by the Government of China to land for international traffic purposes at Peiping.
(b) There will be no objection if United States carriers designated to serve routes 2 and 3 described in paragraph "A" of the Annex, serve Hongkong instead of Canton at the option of the United States Government ; provided , however, no shuttle service will be operated by the designated United States carriers between Hongkong and any one of the points in Chinese territory mentioned in the Annex attached to the Agreement. Furthermore, the United States carrier designated to serve Route No. 2, described in paragraph "A" of

61 STAT. ] CHINA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-DEC. 20, 1946

2823

the Annex, will have the right to connect with its mid-Pacific service at Canton, in event the option to serve Canton instead of Hongkong is exercised by the United States Government. Likewise, the Chinese carriers designated to serve Routes numbered 1 and 2, described in paragraph "B" of the Annex will have the right to connect at San Francisco. (c) The Government of the United States is desirous of obtaining the right for United States carriers to serve other international traffic points in China beyond those mentioned in the present Agreement. The Government of China does not
wish to extend these points at present but will be ready to give prompt consideration thereto when conditions justify. (d) United States carriers will be authorized to serve additional traffic points in Chinese territory as soon as the carriers of any third country are so authorized, and on a basis of reciprocity Chinese carriers will also then be authorized to serve additional points in United States territory. (e) The term "and beyond" as used in the Annex to the Agreement means that the route so described may be extended beyond the territorial limits of the contracting party to one or more other countries. This term shall not be interpreted to commit either contracting party to the granting of additional traffic points in its respective territories. (f) The Government of the United States agrees that if at any time it should enter into an agreement with any other nation adopting formulae for the predetermination of frequencies or capacity, it will enter into a similar agreement with the Government of China.

I shall be much obliged if Your Excellency will confirm the fore-

going. I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency

the assurances of my highest consideration." I take pleasure in stating that the contents of your Note, as quoted above, are acceptable to the Government of the Republic of China. I avail myself of the occasion to renew to you, Sir, the assurances of my highest consideration.
WANG SHIH-CHIEH

Acceptance by chie

To the Honorable



J. LEIGHTON Stuart,

Ambassador of the United States of America, Nanking.



  



























INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

       

 ..

    

 

        ·

     

:

    

            

                



















,  

    



( )                     

2824

2825





()  



   





61 STAT. ] CHINA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- DEC. 20, 1946



     ,     
      



















       ;           

 ,            



   



          ·      

 =



        ,        ·

       

|        

                  









 ,   

 

















.

) (         



INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

·

.

               , 

           

(12)    



 





 

 

 

 



     

   

 





A      

    

 Hi



  

*   

( )  

.  
   
    

.

 



A     





14 .

P            

    

   



      ,        

2826

    J
               
       
      

61 STAT. ] CHINA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-DEC. 20, 1946

2827

 
[1]

     

2 [ WANG SHIH-CHIEH ]

2828

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

 

 

   

61 STAT. ]

FRANCE -COPYRIGHT-MAR. 27, 1947

2829

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting the extension of time for fulfilling conditions and formalities of copyright. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington March 27, 1947; effective March 27, 1947.

March 27, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1610]

The French Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

AMBASSADE DE FRANCE AUX ETATS-UNIS

Washington, le 27 Mars 1947.

MONSIEUR LE SECRÉTAIRE D'ETAT ,

Le Gouvernement de la République Française a pris connaissance

de l'Acte du Congrès des Etats-Unis du 25 septembre 1941 qui prévoit, sous condition de réciprocité, l'extension , pour les conditions et formalités exigées par la législation américaine, du délai accordé aux auteurs, propriétaires de copyrights ou propriétaires d'oeuvres

présentées ou publiées en premier lieu à l'étranger, qui ont été empêchés de remplir ces formalités par suite de la suspension ou de la cessation des facilités nécessaires .

Mon Gouvernement me demande de vous faire savoir que, du fait de la deuxième guerre mondiale , les ressortissants français, auteurs et propriétaires de copyrights ont , depuis l'ouverture des hostilités entre la France et l'Allemagne , le 3 septembre 1939, été empêchés de remplir les formalités exigées par la loi américaine.

Le Gouvernement Français exprime le désir que les ressortissants français dont les oeuvres peuvent faire l'objet de copyrights aux Etats-Unis , soient admis à bénéficier, conformément à la procédure prévue dans l'Acte du 25 septembre 1941 , de l'extension de délai accordée pour l'accomplissement de ces formalités .

A ce sujet, le Gouvernement Français m'a demandé de soumettre à l'attention de Votre Excellence les dispositions suivantes de la législation française concernant les droits d'auteurs :

10.- La loi du 19 juillet 1793 protège l'auteur pendant toute sa vie contre la contrefaçon d'une oeuvre publiée en France. Ce droit appartient aux héritiers de l'auteur pendant une durée de 50 ans après la mort de celui-ci . Ce délai a été porté à 56 ans et 152 jours par la loi du 3 février 1919 pour les oeuvres publiées avant le 31 décembre 1920 et non tombées dans le domaine public à la date de la promulgation de ladite loi . Aucun dépôt, déclaration ou paiement de taxe ne sont nécessaires pour que les intéressés soient admis au bénéfice de ce droit .
20. - L'Acte, dit loi du 22 juillet 1941 , a prorogé les droits des héritiers et ayants cause des auteurs jusqu'à la fin de l'année qui suivra la signature des traités de paix.
30. - Le décret-loi du 28 mars 1852 a étendu aux ouvrages publiés à l'étranger la protection accordée aux oeuvres publiées en France ; ce décret assure aux étrangers une protection égale à celle qui leur est

2830

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

accordée par leur législation nationale . Par exemple, une oeuvre américaine n'est pas protégée en France pendant la durée de la vie
de l'auteur plus 56 ans et 152 jours , mais 28 ans plus 28 ans (sur justification que le copyright a été renouvelé aux Etats-Unis pour la deuxième période de 28 ans) . En outre, les étrangers ne peuvent
avoir, en France , plus de droits que les Français . --
40. Cette législation très libérale, et qui n'exige aucune condition de réciprocité, a été maintenue en vigueur pendant la guerre . En
conséquence, aucun préjudice n'a été causé, du fait de la guerre, aux droits des auteurs américains en France.

Le Gouvernement Français attacherait, en conséquence, le plus grand prix à ce que le Président des Etats-Unis proclamât, conformément à l'Acte du 25 septembre 1941 , qu'en raison des conditions qui ont existé pendant plusieurs années depuis le 3 septembre 1939, les ressortissants français, auteurs, propriétaires de copyrights ou propriétaires d'ouvrages présentés ou publiés en premier lieu en dehors des Etats-Unis et qui, d'après la loi américaine, peuvent faire l'objet de copyright ou de renouvellement, ont été temporairement dans l'impossibilité de répondre aux conditions et de remplir les formalités prévues, à cet égard, par la loi américaine.
En raison du fait que la loi française précitée du 22 juillet 1941

proroge les droits des héritiers et ayants-cause des auteurs jusqu'à la fin de l'année qui suivra la signature des traités de paix, le Gouvernement

Français souhaiterait, d'autre part, recevoir l'assurance que le délai prévu par la proclamation du Président des Etats-Unis, sera d'au moins un an à partir de sa mise en vigueur et éventuellement susceptible d'être prorogé par accord entre les deux gouvernements.

Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Secrétaire d'Etat, l'assurance de ma très haute considération.

Son Excellence

H BONNET

Monsieur DEAN ACHESON,

Secrétaire d'Etat, a.i.,

Washington, D. C.

Translation

EMBASSY OF FRANCE IN THE UNITED STATES

WASHINGTON, March 27, 1947.

MR. SECRETARY OF STATE :

55 Stat. 732. 17 U. S. C. § 8.
61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 652.

The Government of the French Republic has taken cognizance of the Act of the Congress of the United States of September 25 , 1941 , which provides for extending, on a reciprocal basis, the time for the fulfilment of the conditions and formalities prescribed by the laws of the United States in the case of authors , copyright owners, or pro-

prietors of works first produced or published abroad who have been prevented from complying with those formalities because of the dis-

ruption or suspension of the necessary facilities.

My Government requests me to inform you that, because of World

War II, French nationals who are authors and copyright owners

61 STAT. ]

FRANCE COPYRIGHT-MAR. 27, 1947

2831

have been prevented, since the outbreak of hostilities between France and Germany on September 3, 1939 , from fulfilling the formalities prescribed by the laws of the United States.
It is the desire of the French Government that French nationals
whose works are eligible for copyright in the United States be permitted to benefit, in accordance with the procedure provided in the Act of September 25, 1941 , by the extension of time granted for fulfilling those formalities .
In this connection , the French Government has requested me to invite Your Excellency's attention to the following provisions of French legislation regarding copyright:

55 Stat. 732. 17 U. S. C. § 8. 61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 652.

1. The law of July 19, 1793 protects the author during his entire life-time against the pirating of a work published in France. This right belongs to the heirs of the author for fifty years after the latter's death. This time limit was increased to 56 years and 152 days by the Law of February 3 , 1919 , for works published before December 31 , 1920 which had not become public property at the time of the promulgation of the said law. No deposit, declaration or tax payment is necessary in order that the persons concerned may enjoy such right.
2. The Act called Law of July 22 , 1941 , extended the rights of the heirs and assigns of the authors until the end of the year following the signature of the peace treaties.
3. The Decree-Law of March 28, 1852 extended to works published abroad the protection granted to works published in France : that Decree assures to foreigners the same protection as that which is granted to them by their own national laws. For example, an American work is not protected in France for the duration of the author's life plus 56 years and 152 days, but for 28 years plus 28 years (on proof that the copyright has been renewed in the United States for the second period of 28 years) . Furthermore, aliens cannot have in France more rights than have French nationals.
4. This very liberal legislation , which is not subject to reciprocity, was kept in force during the war. American authors have accordingly suffered no prejudice to their rights in France because of the war.
The French Government would , therefore, greatly appreciate it if the President of the United States would proclaim, in accordance with the Act of September 25, 1941 , that, by reason of the conditions which existed for several years after September 3, 1939, French citizens who are the authors , copyright owners , or proprietors of works which were first produced or published outside the United States and which are eligible for copyright or renewal under the laws of the United States , have been temporarily unable to comply with the conditions and formalities prescribed , with respect to such works , by the laws of the United States.
By reason of the fact that the aforesaid French Law of July 22, 1941 extends the rights of the heirs and assigns of authors until the end of the year following the signature of the peace treaties , the French Government would further appreciate receiving the assurance

55 Stat. 732. 17 U. S. C. § 8. 61 Stat., Pt. 1 , p. 652.

2832

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

that the extension of time provided by the proclamation of the President of the United States will be for a period of at least one year from

the date of its coming into force and, should the occasion arise, liable

to extension by agreement between the two Governments.

Please accept, Mr. Secretary of State, the assurance of my very

high consideration.

H BONNET

His Excellency DEAN ACHESON,

Acting Secretary of State, Washington, D.C.

The Acting Secretary of State to the French Ambassador

EXCELLENCY :

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON March 27 1947

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's

55 Stat. 732. 17 U. S. C. § 8.
61 Stat., Pt. 1 , p. 652.

note of today's date in which you refer to the Act of Congress approved September 25, 1941 which authorizes the President to extend by proclamation the time for compliance with the conditions and

formalities prescribed by the copyright laws of the United States of

America with respect to works first produced or published outside

the United States of America and subject to copyright under the

laws of the United States of America when the authors, copyright

owners, or proprietors of such works are or may have been temporarily

unable to comply with those conditions and formalities because of the

disruption or suspension of the facilities essential to such compliance. You state that by reason of conditions arising out of World War II
authors, copyright owners, and proprietors who are citizens of France

have lacked during several years of the time since the outbreak of the

war between France and Germany on September 3 , 1939 the facilities

essential to compliance with and to the fulfillment of the conditions

and formalities established by the laws of the United States of

Extension of time for fulfillment of formalities, etc.
55 Stat. 732. 17 U. S. C. § 8.

America relating to copyright . You express the desire of the Government of the French Republic
that, in accordance with the procedure provided in the Act of September 25 , 1941 , the time for fulfilling the conditions and formalities

61 Stat. , Pt. 1 , p. 652. of the copyright laws of the United States of America be extended for

the benefit of citizens of France whose works are eligible to copy-

right in the United States of America.

You invite attention to the very favorable legislation in France

which was kept in force during the war and point out that, as a con-

sequence, American authors have suffered no prejudice to their rights in France because of the war.

61 STAT. ]

FRANCE COPYRIGHT- MAR. 27, 1947

2833

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the President has issued today a proclamation, a copy of which is annexed hereto , declaring and proclaiming pursuant to the provisions of the aforesaid

Proclamation.
61 Stat . , Pt . 2 , p. 1057.

Act of September 25 , 1941 on the basis of the favorable treatment accorded by France to authors and copyright proprietors of the United States of America that as regards ( 1 ) works of citizens of France which were first produced or published outside the United States of America

on or after September 3 , 1939 and subject to copyright under the laws of the United States of America and (2) works of citizens of France

subject to renewal of copyright under the laws of the United States of America on or after September 3 , 1939 , there has existed during several years of the time since September 3 , 1939 such disruption or suspension of facilities essential to compliance with the conditions and formalities prescribed with respect to such works by the copyright laws of the United States of America as to bring such works within the terms of the said Act of September 25, 1941 ; and that accordingly the time within which compliance with such conditions and formalities may take place is extended with respect to such works until the day on which the President of the United States of America shall, in accordance with the said Act, terminate or suspend that declaration and proc-

lamation . That proclamation provides that it shall be understood that the term of copyright in any case is not and cannot be altered or affected by the President's action and that the extension is subject to

the proviso of the said Act of September 25 , 1941 that no liability shall attach under the copyright act for lawful uses made or acts done prior to the effective date of that proclamation in connection with the works to which it relates , or in respect to the continuance for one

year subsequent to such date of any business undertaking or enterprise lawfully undertaken prior to such date involving expenditure or contractual obligation in connection with the exploitation , production,

reproduction, circulation, or performance of any such work. Duration; effective
In accordance with the proposal made by Your Excellency in the date. note under acknowledgment , the extension of time provided by that
proclamation will continue for at least one year from today's date,
subject to extension on agreement between the two Governments.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
DEAN ACHESON

Enclosure: Copy of proclamation.

Acting Secretary of State.

His Excellency HENRI BONNET,

Ambassador of the French Republic.

2834

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

March 14, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1611]

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines respecting a fishery program in the Philippines. Signed at Manila March 14, 1947; effective March 14, 1947.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES CONCERNING A FISHERY REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM AND A FISHERY TRAINING PROGRAM.

WHEREAS, the Government of the United States has enacted Public

Law No. 370, 79th Congress, approved April 30, 1946 , known as

60 Stat. 138. 50 U. S. C.

app .

the Philippine Rehabilitation Act of 1946, whereof Section 309, en-

§ 1789.

titled "Philippine Fisheries," provides :

Cooperation of Fish and Wildlife Service.

Sec. 309. (a) The Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior is authorized to cooperate with the Government of the Philippines, and with other appropriate agencies or organizations, in the rehabilitation and development of the fishing industry, and in the investigation and conservation of the fishery resources of

Studies.

the Philippines and adjacent waters. (b) To accomplish such purposes the Fish and Wildlife Service

Instruction.

shall conduct oceanographic, biological, fish cultural, technological, engineering, statistical, economic , and market development studies and demonstrations and fishery explorations, and in conjunction therewith may establish and maintain a vocational school or schools of fisheries in the Philippines for the purpose of providing practical

60 Stat. 139. 50 U. S. C. spp. § 1791 (c) .
Research and experimental facilities.

instruction and training in the fisheries ; and may, at any time prior to July 1 , 1950, provide one year of training to not more than one hundred and twenty-five Filipinos, to be designated by the President of the Philippines subject to the provisions of section 311 ( c ) , in
methods of deep - sea fishing and in other techniques necessary to the development of fisheries.
(c) The Fish and Wildlife Service is authorized to acquire, construct, maintain, equip, and operate such research and experimental

stations , schools, research and exploratory fishing vessels , or any other facilities in the Philippines that may be necessary to carry out

Transfer of small vessels .

the purposes of this section.
(d) The United States Maritime Commission is authorized, upon recommendation of the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior, to make arrangements for the transfer by sale or charter of small vessels, considered by the United States Maritime Commission to be satisfactory for the purpose, to be used in the establishment and continuance of a fishing industry to be operated

in or near the Philippines. Such transfers may be made on such terms and conditions, including transfer for a nominal consideration ,

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES- FISHERY PROGRAM-MAR. 14, 1947

2835

as the United States Maritime Commission may approve, but only if, in the opinion of the Fish and Wildlife Service, such small vessels so to be used for Philippine Island fishing are not needed by the fishing industry of the United States, its Territories, and possessions ; and

WHEREAS, the Government of the Republic of the Philippines is desirous of availing itself of the benefits, facilities and services which are authorized by the above-quoted Section 309 of the said Public Law No. 370, 79th Congress ;
THEREFORE, the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of the Philippines have decided to conclude an agreement for the foregoing purposes and have agreed mutually as follows :
ARTICLE I

The responsible agent of the Government of the United States of America for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement shall be the Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service of the United States Depart-

Responsible agent of U. B. Government.

ment of the Interior, hereinafter called the Director. The Director

may delegate to a duly authorized representative all or any part of his authority and responsibility for effectuating the provisions of this

Agreement. The duties, functions, and powers exercised in the Republic of the Philippines under the terms of this Agreement by the Director

or his duly authorized representative shall be under the general supervision of the Ambassador of the United States of America accredited

to the Government of the Republic of the Philippines, or, in the absence of the Ambassador, of the Charge d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America.

ARTICLE II

The responsible agent of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement shall be the Chief of the Bureau of Fisheries of the Department of Agriculture

Responsible of Philippine
ernment",

agent Gov-

and Commerce, hereinafter called the Chief. The Chief may delegate

to a duly authorized representative all or any part of his authority and responsibility for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement. The

Chief, or his authorized representative, shall cooperate with the Direc-

tor, or the authorized representative of the Director, in planning the

programs of work to be conducted pursuant to this Agreement and

in effectuating close cooperation and integration with the programs , functions and responsibilities of the Bureau of Fisheries of the Depart-

ment of Agriculture and Commerce of the Government of the Philip-

pines. The Director , or his authorized representative, may negotiate and conclude with the Chief, or the authorized representative of the

Chief, any working agreement necessary to the carrying out of this

Agreement.

ARTICLE III

The fishery rehabilitation, improvement and development program

Items comprising fishery rehabilitation,

to be conducted pursuant to this Agreement shall comprise such of etc., program .

2836

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

the following items as may be determined from time to time by the Director, or his representative, and the Chief, or his representative : (a ) Oceanography of the waters in which fisheries are conducted or may be developed to determine the nature of physical factors such as currents, salinity, temperature, plankton abundance, et cetera, affecting such fisheries, which will be correlated with (b) studies of the kinds, abundance, distribution, seasonal and periodic migration , life history and ecology of the various species that comprise the fishery resources, and their management on a sustained yield basis, which studies are fundamental to ( c) exploratory fishing to determine the commercial practicability of conducting operations in various areas ; the optimum types of gear suitable for exploitation of the resources in such areas ; and modifications or improvements in existing fishing practices in order to provide for better utilization of the resources. As an adjunct to the foregoing there also may be conducted (d ) studies of handling, dressing, and storing catches on shipboard and at shore fishery establishments in order to improve the quality of the product, to prevent waste, and to promote efficiency of operations ; ( e ) experiments in the freezing , smoking, salting, canning, and other processing of fishery products to promote efficiency and quality of the product as well as to devise methods that are the most economical and efficient ; ( f) studies and pilot- plant experiments in the preparation of fishery by-products such as industrial and vitamin oils, fish meal, glue, pearl essence, hides for leather, and other items, so as to utilize species, portions of the catch, and offal, that cannot be utilized for human food ; (g) studies of the management of brackish and fresh water fish ponds, with a view toward promoting greater production and efficiency through fertilization, the introduction of sanitary measures and control of parasites and diseases ; (h ) the collection , analysis , and dissemination of current and annual statistics on fishery production as business indices and as an aid in biological assessment of the condition of the fishery stocks and fluctuations in abundance ; ( i ) economic studies of employment, production, distribution , and marketing including cost analyses and business consultant services and all segments of the fishing industry to aid in its development and promote its efficiency ;
(j ) studies of distribution and marketing of fishery products in order that supplies may be diverted to deficiency areas, thus avoiding the unprofitable and wasteful accumulation of surpluses in other areas ; and (k) efforts to provide such aids as the industry may require in acquiring equipment and facilities.

ARTICLE IV

Provision of lands,
equipment, etc., by Philippine Government.

The Government of the Republic of the Philippines agrees to provide free of cost to the Government of the United States of America such lands, rights-of-way and easements as may be necessary for carrying out the terms of this Agreement. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall furnish such equipment, facilities and qualified personnel necessary to carry out the purposes of this Agreement as may be available to the Government

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES FISHERY PROGRAM-MAR. 14, 1947

2837

of the Republic of the Philippines. The Fish and Wildlife Service of the United States Department of the Interior is authorized to accept and utilize for the performance of the terms of this Agreement contributions of labor, materials, equipment and money from the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and its political subdivisions .
ARTICLE V

The Fish and Wildlife Service of the United States Department

Training for Philippine citizens.

of the Interior shall provide training during the period of this

Agreement for not to exceed one hundred and twenty-five citizens of the Republic of the Philippines in methods of deep-sea fishing and other techniques necessary to the development of the fisheries. The Fish and Wildlife Service of the United States Department of

Expenses.

the Interior shall provide for the payment of all expenses incidental to such training, including, but not necessarily limited to, actual transportation expenses to and from and in the United States of

America, allowances for tuition , educational fees and subsistence. In accordance with the procedure set forth in Section 311 (c ) of
the said Public Law No. 370, 79th Congress, the President of the Republic shall designate trainees selected in accordance with pro-

Designation of trainees.
60 Stat. 139. 50 U. S. C. app.
§ 1791 (c) .

cedures and standards established by the Director, and the Govern-

ment of the Republic of the Philippines shall furnish to the United

States Embassy at Manila the names and necessary supporting docu-

ments of trainees so designated.

ARTICLE VI

The Fish and Wildlife Service of the United States Department of the Interior may construct a fishery research laboratory in the Republic of the Philippines at such place and in accordance with such specifications as may be agreed upon pursuant to Article II of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII

Fishery research laboratory .
Ante, p. 2835.

Vessels owned by the Government of the United States of America (including small boats) operated by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the United States Department of the Interior as part of the pro-

Free movement of U. S. vessels, etc.

gram carried out pursuant to this Agreement shall be permitted to

move freely in the territorial waters of the Republic of the Philippines , to enter and sail from the several ports with or without pilots and without the necessity of formal entrance or clearance that may ordinarily be required of commercial and other vessels and to establish or utilize such means of communications between such vessels

and shore facilities as may be necessary to the effective administra-

tion of the programs contemplated by this Agreement. Quarantine procedures and inspections shall be required only at the first Philippine port of call on original entry.
Vessels of the Government of the United States of America used

in the fishery program (including small boats ) , their equipment , tackle, and appurtenances shall be immune from seizure under Admiralty or other legal process.
95347°-49-PT. III -36

2838

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Vessels owned by the Government of the United States of America (including small boats ) used in the fishery program shall be exempt from all requirements ofthe Government of the Republic of the Philippines relating to inspection, registry, manning or licensing of vessels or marine personnel.
Where suitable public wharves or facilities for moorage are available, such vessels shall be furnished wharfage or moorage without cost.

ARTICLE VIII

Office space, housing accommodations,

The Government of the Republic of the Philippines will cooperate

etc.

with the Fish and Wildlife Service of the United States Department

of the Interior in providing such temporary or permanent office,

laboratory, or other space as may be required and shall render all

practicable assistance in securing housing accommodations, at reasonable rental rates, for personnel of the Fish and Wildlife Service of

the United States Department of the Interior who are engaged in effectuating this program, and their families.

Damage suits, etc.

ARTICLE IX
The Government of the Republic of the Philippines will save harmless all officers and employees of the Fish and Wildlife Service of the United States Department of the Interior who are citizens of the United States from damage suits or other civil actions arising out of their performance of their duties under this Agreement.

ARTICLE X

Free movement of Officers, employees and agents of the Government of the United U. S. officers, etc.
States of America who are citizens of the United States and who are
on duty or who may be assigned to duty in the Republic of the Philippines under the provisions of the present Agreement, and their families, shall be permitted to move freely into and out of the Republic of the Philippines, subject to existing visa and passport regulations. Gratis transit shall be extended to all officers, employees,
or agents of the Fish and Wildlife Service over all bridges, ferries, roads and other facilities of the highways where tolls are collected for passage of vehicles or occupants.

ARTICLE XI

Nontaxability of

funds, etc.

Pending the conclusion of negotiations now being considered by

the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines, no

import, excise, consumption, or other tax, duty or impost shall be

levied on funds or property in the Republic of the Philippines which

is owned by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the United States De-

partment of the Interior and used for purposes under the present

Agreement or on funds, materials, supplies, and equipment imported

into the Republic of the Philippines for use in connection with such

purposes ; nor shall any such tax, duty or impost be levied on personal

funds or property, not intended for resale, imported into the Republic

of the Philippines for the use or consumption of Fish and Wildlife

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-FISHERY PROGRAM- MAR. 14, 1947

2839

Service personnel who are United States citizens ; nor shall any export or other tax be placed on any such funds or property, including United States Government property, in the event of its removal from the Republic of the Philippines.

ARTICLE XII

Each Government reserves the right to remove any personnel paid by it and involved in carrying out the provisions of this Agreement with the understanding that each Government shall maintain an adequate force to carry out the provisions and requirements of this Agreement so long as the Agreement is in effect.

Right to remove personnel, etc.

ARTICLE XIII

Commitments by All commitments made in this Agreement on the part of the Gov- U.S. ernment of the United States of America shall be subject to the availability of appropriated funds by the Government of the United States of America.
ARTICLE XIV

Effective date; duThis Agreement shall become effective on the date of its signature, ration.

and shall continue in effect until completely executed on both sides ,

but in no event later than June 30, 1950 ; provided , however, that this

Agreement may be revised , amended , or changed in whole or in part

with the approval of both parties as indicated and effected by an exchange of notes between the two contracting parties ; and provided

Termination .

further, that either Government may terminate this Agreement by

giving to the other party ninety days notice in writing through diplomatic channels.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Undersigned , duly authorized thereto, have signed the present Agreement in duplicate at Manila this fourteenth day of March, 1947.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : PAUL V. MCNUTT
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES : MARIANO GARCHITORENA
Secretary of Agriculture and Commerce.

2840

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

September 13 and 17, [T. I. A. S. 1612]

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines respecting an American-Philippine financial commission. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Manila September 13 and 17, 1946; effective September 17, 1946.

The American Ambassador to the Secretary of Foreign Affairs for the Republic of the Philippines

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

American Philippine Financial Commission.

EXCELLENCY :

September 13, 1946.

I have the honor to state that in further reference to your note of

August 6 [ 1 ] regarding the creation of a joint American-Philippine

Commission to consider the financial and budgetary problems of the Philippines and to make recommendations thereon to our two Governments, I am in receipt of information from the Department of State as follows :

Membership .

"Because of special needs here, State and Treasury jointly propose that American-Philippine Financial Commission consist of three American and three Filipino members with co-chairmanship and American members to include a representative of State as co-chairman, Treasury, and Federal Reserve Board. Expect American delegation will have additional staff members to advise chairman on specific technical problems. Terms of reference of joint commission as follows :

"To consider the financial and budgetary problems of the Philippine Government and to make recommendations thereon to the two Governments, with reference to tax system and administration, budget, public debt, currency and banking reform , exchange and trade problems, reconstruction and development.
"Please inform Philippine Government that commission cannot be empowered to consider application for Export- Import Bank loan as Export-Import Bank and NAC [ 2 ] cannot delegate this responsibility. However, findings and recommendations will be brought to attention of Export-Import Bank and NAC and will be utmost value in their consideration of specific action.
"Request you consult with Philippine Government with view to obtaining concurrence in above proposals and early formation

1 [Not printed.] 2 [National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Problems .]

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-FINANCIAL COMMISSION-SEPT. 13, 17, 1946
and activation of commission. You will be advised names of American members when designated and probable date of departure. In view of exchange correspondence between President Truman and President Roxas last month on this question, it is desired here that arrangements go forward with all possible speed. Please advise promptly of all developments."
I shall be very glad to receive and transmit to the Department of State the concurrence of your Government and, thus, to facilitate the establishment of the American-Philippine Financial Commission.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
PAUL V. MCNUTT His Excellency
ELPIDIO QUIRINO,
Secretary of Foreign Affairs for the Republic of the Philippines.

2841

The Secretary of Foreign Affairs for the Republic of the Philippines to the American Ambassador

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

EXCELLENCY :

MANILA, September 17, 1946

I have the honor to refer to your note of September 13 regarding

the creation of a joint American-Philippine Commission to consider

the financial and budgetary problems of the Philippines and to make recommendations thereon to our two governments.
My Government accepts with pleasure the proposal of your Government that a joint American- Philippine Finance Commission be estab-

Acceptance by Philippines.

lished . My Government approves the plan to entrust to the proposed Commission the consideration of the financial and budgetary problems

of the Philippine Government and the formulation of recommenda-

tions to the two governments of measures to meet budgetary deficits of the Philippine Government. My Government also approves the

proposal that this Commission consider and make recommendations

to the Philippine Government with reference to our taxes and admin-

istration, the budget, public debt, currency and banking reform, ex-

change and trade problems, reconstruction and development.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

E. QUIRINO ELPIDIO QUIRINO Vice-President and concurrently

Secretary of Foreign Affairs His Excellency
PAUL V. MCNUTT United States Ambassador Manila

2842

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

April 24, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1613]

Agreement between the United States of America and New Zealand respecting an extension of time for fulfilling conditions and formalities of copyright. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington April 24 , 1947 ; effective April 24 , 1947.

The Minister ofNew Zealand to the Acting Secretary of State

NEW ZEALAND LEGATION

WASHINGTON, D. C.

EXCELLENCY,

April 24, 1947

The attention of the New Zealand Government has been invited to

55 Stat. 732. 17 U. S. C. § 8.
61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 652.

the Act of Congress of the United States of America approved September 25, 1941 , which provides for extending, on a reciprocal basis, the time for the fulfilment of the conditions and formalities prescribed by the copyright laws of the United States in the case of authors, copyright owners, or proprietors of works first produced or published abroad who are or may have been temporarily unable to comply with those conditions and formalities because of the disruption or suspension of the facilities essential for their compliance.
My Government has requested me to inform you that, by reason of the conditions arising out of World War II, New Zealand authors,

copyright owners, and proprietors have lacked during several years of the time since the outbreak of war between New Zealand and Germany on September 3, 1939 the facilities essential to compliance with and to the fulfilment of the conditions and formalities established by the laws of the United States relating to copyright.

It is the desire of the New Zealand Government that, in accordance

with the procedure provided in the said Act of September 25, 1941, the time for fulfilling the conditions and formalities of the copyright laws of the United States be extended for the benefit of citizens of

New Zealand whose works are eligible to copyright in the United States.

With a view to assuring the Government of the United States of America of reciprocal protection for authors, copyright owners , and

proprietors of the United States, the Governor-General has made an Order in Council, the text of which is annexed hereto , which comes into

effect today, on which date it is understood that the President of the United States of America shall proclaim, in accordance with the said Act of September 25, 1941 , that by reason of the disruption or sus-

pension of facilities during several years of the time since September 3, 1939 citizens of New Zealand who are authors, copyright owners, or

proprietors of works first produced or published outside the United

States and subject to copyright, ad interim copyright, or renewal of copyright under the laws of the United States, have been temporarily

61 STAT. ]

NEW ZEALAND COPYRIGHT-APR. 24, 1947

unable to comply with the conditions and formalities prescribed with respect to such works by the copyright laws of the United States.
The New Zealand Government is prepared, if this proposal is acceptable to the Government of the United States of America , to regard the present note and Your Excellency's reply to the same effect as constituting an agreement between the two Governments, which shall take effect this day.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

Enclosure.

CARL BERENDSEN

The Honourable the Acting Secretary of State, Washington, D. C.

THE COPYRIGHT (UNITED STATES OF AMERICA) ORDER 1946

Michael Myers

Administrator of the Government ORDER IN COUNCIL

At the Government House at Wellington, this 5th day of June, 1946

Present :

HIS EXCELLENCY THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE GOVERNMENT

IN COUNCIL

WHEREAS, by reason of conditions arising out of the present war, difficulties have been experienced by citizens of the United States of America in complying with the requirements of the Copyright Act, 1913, as to the first publication within New Zealand of their works first published in the United States of America during the present war : And whereas the Administrator of the Government is advised that the Government of the United States of America has undertaken to grant such extension of time as may be deemed appropriate for the fulfilment of the conditions and formalities prescribed by the laws of the United States with respect to the works of citizens of New Zealand first produced or published outside the United States and subject to copyright or to renewal of copyright under the laws of the United States, including works subject to ad interim copyright : And whereas by reason of the said undertaking of the Government of the United States of America the Administrator of the Government is satisfied that the said Government has made, or has undertaken to make, such provision as it is expedient to require for the protection of works first made or published in New Zealand during the period commencing on the 3rd day of September, 1939, and ending one year after the termination of the present war and entitled to copyright under Part I of the Copyright Act, 1913 : And whereas by the Copyright Act, 1913, authority is conferred to extend, by Order in Council, the protection of the said Act to certain classes of foreign works within New Zealand : And whereas by reason of these premises it is desirable to provide protection within New Zealand for literary or artistic works first published in the United States of America during the period commencing on the 3rd day of September, 1939, and ending one year after the termination of the present war which have failed to accomplish the formalities prescribed by the Copyright Act, 1913, by reason of conditions arising out of the war :

Now, therefore, His Excellency the Administrator of the Government, acting by and with the advice and consent of the Executive Council of the Dominion of

2843

2844

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
New Zealand, and in pursuance and exercise of the power and authority conferred by the Copyright Act, 1913, doth hereby direct as follows :- -
1. This Order may be cited as the Copyright (United States of America ) Order 1946.
2. This Order shall come into force on the date of the notification in the Gazette of the making thereof.
3. The Copyright Act, 1913, shall, subject to the provisions of the said Act and of this Order, apply to works first published in the United States of America during the period commencing on the 3rd day of September, 1939, and ending one year after the termination of the present war, which have not been republished in New Zealand within fourteen days of the publication in the United States of America, in like manner as if they had been first published within New Zealand :
Provided that the enjoyment by any such work of the rights conferred by the Copyright Act, 1913, shall be conditional upon publication of the work within New Zealand not later than one year after the termination of the present war, and shall commence from and after such publication , which shall not be colourable only, but shall be intended to satisfy the reasonable requirements of the public.
4. The provisions of section 52 of the Copyright Act, 1913, as to the delivery of books to the General Assembly Library, shall apply to works to which this Order relates upon their publication in New Zealand .
5. Nothing in this Order shall be construed as depriving any work of any rights which have been lawfully acquired under the provisions of the Copyright Act, 1913, or any Order in Council thereunder.
6. Where any person has, before the commencement of this Order, taken any action whereby he has incurred any expenditure or liability in connection with the reproduction or performance of any work which at the time was lawful, or for the purpose of or with a view to the reproduction or performance of a work at a time when such reproduction or performance would , but for the making of this Order, have been lawful, nothing in this Order shall diminish or prejudice any rights or interest arising from or in connection with such action which were subsisting and valuable at the said date, unless the person who by virtue of this Order becomes entitled to restrain such reproduction or performance agrees to pay such compensation as, failing agreement, may be determined by arbitration.
W. O. HARVEY Acting Clerk of the Executive Council.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Minister of New Zealand

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

55 Stat. 732. 17 U. S. C. § 8.
61 Stat., Pt. 1 , p. 652.

SIR :

Apr 24 1947

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note of today's

date in which you refer to the Act of Congress approved September 25 ,

1941 which authorizes the President to extend by proclamation the

time for compliance with the conditions and formalities prescribed

by the copyright laws of the United States of America with respect

to works first produced or published outside the United States of America and subject to copyright under the laws of the United States of America when the authors, copyright owners, or proprietors of

such works are or may have been temporarily unable to comply with those conditions and formalities because of the disruption or sus-

pension of the facilities essential to such compliance.

You state that by reason of conditions arising out of World War II

61 STAT. ]

NEW ZEALAND- COPYRIGHT--APR. 24, 1947

2845

authors, copyright owners, and proprietors who are citizens of New

Zealand have lacked during several years of the time since the outbreak of war between New Zealand and Germany on September 3,

1939, the facilities essential to compliance with and to the fulfilment of

the conditions and formalities established by laws of the United States

of America relating to copyright.
Extension of time You express the desire of the New Zealand Government that, in for fulfillment of for

accordance with the procedure provided in the Act of September 25 , 1941, the time for fulfilling the conditions and formalities of the copyright laws of the United States of America be extended for the benefit

malities, etc. 55 Stat. 732.
17 U. S. C. § 8. 61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 652.

of citizens of New Zealand whose works are eligible to copyright in the United States of America. You add that with a view to assuring

the Government of the United States of America reciprocal protection

for authors, copyright owners, and proprietors of the United States of America, the Governor-General has made an Order in Council, the text of which accompanies your note under acknowledgment, which comes into effect today, on which date it is understood that the President of the United States of America shall proclaim, in accordance with the Act of September 25, 1941 , that by reason of the disruption or suspension of facilities during several years of the time since September 3, 1939 citizens of New Zealand who are authors, copyright

owners, or proprietors of works first produced or published outside the United States of America and subject to copyright, ad interim copyright, or renewal of copyright under the laws of the United States of America have been temporarily unable to comply with the

conditions and formalities prescribed with respect to such works by the copyright laws of the United States of America.
You further state that the New Zealand Government is prepared,

if this proposal should be accepted by the Government of the United States of America , to regard the note under acknowledgment and this Government's reply thereto to that effect as constituting an agreement

between the two Governments, which shall take effect this day. I have the honor to inform you that, with a view to giving effect to

Proclamation .

the commitment proposed in the note under acknowledgment, the President has issued today a proclamation, a copy of which is annexed hereto, declaring and proclaiming, pursuant to the provisions of the aforesaid Act of September 25, 1941 on the basis of the assurances set forth in your note and the Order in Council annexed thereto , that as

61 Stat . , Pt. 2, p. 1065.
55 Stat. 732. 17 U. S. C. § 8. 61 Stat., Pt. 1 , p. 652.

regards ( 1 ) works of citizens of New Zealand which were first pro-

duced or published outside the United States of America on or after September 3, 1939 and subject to copyright under the laws of the

United States of America, including works subject to ad interim

copyright, and ( 2 ) works of citizens of New Zealand subject to renewal of copyright under the laws of the United States of America

on or after September 3, 1939, there has existed during several years

of the time since September 3, 1939 such disruption or suspension of

facilities essential to compliance with the conditions and formalities prescribed with respect to such works by the copyright laws of the United States of America as to bring such works within the terms of

the said Act of September 25, 1941 ; and that accordingly the time

2846 Effective date.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

within which compliance with such conditions and formalities may take place is extended in respect of such works until the day on which the President of the United States of America shall, in accordance with the said Act, terminate or suspend that declaration and proclamation. The proclamation provides that it shall be understood that the term of copyright in any case is not and cannot be altered or affected by the President's action and that the extension is subject to the proviso of the said Act of September 25 , 1941 that no liability shall attach under the Copyright Act for lawful uses made or acts done prior to the effective date of that proclamation in connection with the works to which it relates, or in respect to the continuance for one year subsequent to such date of any business undertaking or enterprise lawfully undertaken prior to such date involving expenditure or contractual obligation in connection with the exploitation , production, reproduction, circulation, or performance of any such work.
The Government of the United States of America accordingly considers the agreement in regard to such extension of time to be in effect as of today's date.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. DEAN ACHESON

Enclosure :

Acting Secretary of State

Copy of Proclamation.

The Honorable

Sir CARL BERENDSEN , K.C.M.G., Minister of New Zealand.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- EUROPEAN COAL ORGANIZATION- DEC. 30, 1946

2847

Protocol between the United States of America and other governments
prolonging the agreement of January 4, 1946, respecting a European Coal Organization . Concluded at London December 12, 1946; open for signature until December 31 , 1946 ; signed on behalf of the United States of America December 30, 1946; effective January 1 , 1947.

December 30, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1615]

2848

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

PROTOCOL FOR THE PROLONGATION OF THE EUROPEAN COAL ORGANISATION AGREEMENT OF 4TH JANUARY, 1946

WHEREAS Article 10 of the Agreement for the establishment of

60 Stat. 1522.

the European Coal Organisation, signed in London on 4th January, 1946 , provides that the Agreement should be for an initial period

of one year, and whereas it is the desire of member Governments to prolong its operation, it is agreed as follows :-

Continuance in

force; effective date.

1. The Agreement shall continue in force as between the signatories

of the present Protocol for a further period of one year from 1st

January, 1947 , subject to the right of any member Government to

withdraw from the Agreement after giving, to the Government of the

United Kingdom, three months ' notice of their intention to withdraw.

Transfer of func-

tions, etc.

2. In the event of a new organisation being constituted on the initia-

tive of the United Nations for the purpose of dealing with problems

relating to fuel and power, the parties to this Protocol will consider

among themselves what steps should be taken for the transfer of the

functions, assets and liabilities, personnel and archives of the Euro-

pean Coal Organisation to the new organisation and for the termination of the Agreement.

3. This Protocol shall remain open for signature until 31st Decem-

ber, 1946 .

Done in London the 12th day of December, 1946, in a single copy which shall be deposited with the Government of the United Kingdom and of which certified copies shall be communicated to all signatory Governments

For the Government of Belgium :

MAX BUYSE.

For the Government of Czechoslovakia :

B. MESSANY.

For the Government of Denmark:

ANTHON VESTBIRK .

For the Government of the French Republic :

GUERONIK.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- EUROPEAN COAL ORGANIZATION-DEC. 30, 1946

2849

PROTOCOLE RELATIF À LA PROLONGATION DE L'ACCORD DU 4 JANVIER 1946 PORTANT CRÉATION DU COMITÉ EUROPÉEN DU CHARBON

CONSIDÉRANT que l'article 10 de l'Accord portant création du Comité Européen du Charbon , signé à Londres le 4 janvier 1946 , prévoit que l'Accord aura une durée initiale d'une année, et considérant que les Gouvernements-membres ont le désir d'en prolonger la validité, les soussignés sont convenus de ce qui suit :
1. L'Accord restera en vigueur entre les signataires du présent Protocole pour une nouvelle période d'une année à compter du 1er janvier 1947 , sous réserve du droit de tout Gouvernement-membre de dénoncer l'Accord en donnant au Gouvernement du Royaume- Uni un préavis de trois mois.
2. Dans le cas où un nouvel organisme serait constitué à l'initiative des Nations Unies pour traiter des problèmes relatifs au charbon et à l'énergie , les signataires du présent Protocole examineront entre eux les mesures à prendre pour le transfert des fonctions , de l'actif et du passif, du personnel et des archives du Comité Européen du Charbon au nouvel organisme et pour mettre fin à l'Accord.

3. Le présent Protocole restera ouvert pour signature jusqu'au 31 décembre 1946.

Fait à Londres le 12 décembre 1946 , en un seul exemplaire, qui sera déposé dans les archives du Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni, qui en remettra des copies certifiées conformes à tous les Gouvernements signataires .

Pour le Gouvernement de Belgique :

MAX BUYSE.

Pour le Gouvernement de la Tchécoslovaquie: B. MESSANY.

Pour le Gouvernement du Danemark:

ANTHON VESTBIRK .

Pour le Gouvernement de la République Française : GUERONIK .

2850

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

For the Government of Greece :

B. MOSTRAS.

For the Government of Luxembourg :

L. CLASEN.

For the Government of the Netherlands : E. MICHIELS VAN VERDUYNEN.

For the Government of Norway:

JOHAN MELANDER.

For the Government of Poland :

C. ALEXANDROWICZ.

For the Government of Sweden :

For the Government of Turkey :

I. ADI KAVUR.

For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland : O. G. SARGENT.

For the Government of the United States of America : W. J. GALLMAN.

Certified a true copy.
[ SEAL] LONDON

E. J. PASSANT. Librarian and Keeper of the Papers for the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- EUROPEAN COAL ORGANIZATION- DEC. 30, 1946

Pour le Gouvernement de la Grèce :

B. MOSTRAS.

Pour le Gouvernement du Luxembourg:

L. CLASEN.

Pour le Gouvernement des Pays-Bas: E. MICHIELS VAN VERDUYNEN.

Pour le Gouvernement de Norvège:

JOHAN MELANDER.

Pour le Gouvernement de Pologne:

C. ALEXANDROWICZ.

Pour le Gouvernement de Suède :

Pour le Gouvernement de la Turquie :

I. ADI KAVUr.

Pour le Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord:
O. G. SARGENT.

Pour le Gouvernement des États- Unis d'Amérique : W. J. GALLMAN.

2851

2852

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

May 12, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1616]

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic ofthe Philippines respecting a coast and geodetic program in the Philippines . Signed at Manila May 12, 1947; entered into force May 12, 1947.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES REGARDING COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY WORK AND TRAINING PROGRAM .

WHEREAS, the Government of the United States of America has

enacted Public Law 370-79th Congress , approved April 30 , 1946 ,

60 Stat. 139. 50 U. S. C. app. § 1790.

known as the Philippine Rehabilitation Act of 1946, whereof Section 310, entitled "Coast and Geodetic Surveys," provides :
"The Coast and Geodetic Survey of the Department of Commerce

is authorized to continue, until June 30, 1950, the survey work which was being conducted by it in the Philippines prior to December 7, 1941. The Director of the Coast and Geodetic Survey is authorized to train not exceeding twenty Filipinos each year prior to July 1,

60 Stat. 139. 50 U. S. C. app.
§ 1791 (c).

1950, to be designated by the President of the Philippines subject to the provisions of section 311 ( c ) , in order that they may become qualified to take over and continue such survey work on and after July 1, 1950 , and to pay all expenses incident to their temporary employment and training." and

U. S. Director.

WHEREAS, the Government of the Republic of the Philippines is desirous of availing itself of the benefits, facilities and services which are authorized by the above-quoted Section 310 of the said Public Law 370-79th Congress ;
THEREFORE, the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of the Philippines have decided to conclude an agreement for the foregoing purposes and have mutually agreed as follows :
ARTICLE I
The responsible agent of the Government of the United States of America for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement shall be the Director of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey of the Department of Commerce, hereinafter referred to as the United States Director. The United States Director may delegate to a duly authorized representative all or any part of his authority for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement. The duties, functions and powers exercised in the Republic of the Philippines under the terms of this Agreement by the United States Director, or his duly authorized representative, shall be under the general supervision of the United States Ambassador accredited to the Government of the Republic of the Philippines or, in the absence of the Ambassador, of the Charge d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America.

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-COAST AND GEODETIC PROGRAM-MAY 12, 1947

2853

The United States Director, or his duly authorized representative, may negotiate and conclude any working agreements necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Agreement.
The responsible agent of the Government of the Republic of the

Philippine Director.

Philippines for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement shall

be the Director of the Bureau of Coast and Geodetic Survey of the

Department of National Defense, hereinafter referred to as the

Philippine Director. The Philippine Director may delegate to an

officer or employee of the Bureau of Coast and Geodetic Survey of

the Department of National Defense all or any part of his authority

for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement. The Philippine

Director, or his authorized representative, shall be the representative

of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines in the negotia-

tion and conclusion of all working agreements necessary for carrying

out the provisions of this Agreement. The United States Director and the Philippine Director shall co-

Cooperation.

operate in every way possible to carry out the spirit and purpose of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II

Director o Coast The United States Director shall assign one commissioned officer Surveys.
of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey of the Department

of Commerce who shall perform the duties of Director of Coast Sur-

veys, Manila Field Station , United States Coast and Geodetic Survey.

The Director of Coast Surveys , Manila Field Station , shall act as

adviser on Coast and Geodetic Surveys to the President of the Re-

public of the Philippines and shall also direct the office and field

operations of all personnel paid with United States Government

funds. Other Coast and Geodetic Survey commissioned officers and

Civil Service personnel may, pursuant to the purposes of this Agree-

ment, be assigned to duty in the Republic of the Philippines and shall

serve under the Director of Coast Surveys , Manila Field Station .

The organization of the Philippine Bureau of Coast and Geodetic

Survey is to be determined entirely by the Republic of the Philippines. The United States Coast and Geodetic Survey of the Department
of Commerce shall assume financial responsibility for manning, re-

"TSUUuLLrIIvPPe. y vessel

pairing and operating one survey vessel, the "TULIP."
Surveys; instrucThe United States Coast and Geodetic Survey shall conduct sur- tion.

veying operations in the Republic of the Philippines and instruct

Philippine personnel in the Republic of the Philippines in United

States Coast and Geodetic Survey techniques of surveying, mapping

and charting. Ownership of rec-
Original hydrographic, topographic, triangulation and leveling ords,etc.

records and accompanying surveys and reports made by the United

States Coast and Geodetic Survey under the terms of this Agreement

will become the property of the Government of the Republic of the

Philippines, and the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey will

retain, or be provided with, three photo-lithographic copies of all

triangulation, air photo, topographic, tidal, magnetic, photogram-

metric, leveling, hydrographic and other surveys and one copy of each descriptive report.
95347-49- PT. III- -37

2854

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Printing of charts by U. S.

The United States Coast and Geodetic Survey will print charts of the Republic of the Philippines for the Philippine Bureau of the Coast and Geodetic Survey until the latter is in position to assume

responsibility for the operation.

ARTICLE III

Philippine trainees. The United States Director shall provide for the temporary employment and training during the period of this Agreement of not to exceed twenty ( 20 ) citizens of the Republic of the Philippines each year in surveying, mapping, charting and related activities. The United States Director shall provide for the payment of all expenses incidental to such temporary employment and training, including, but not necessarily limited to , actual transportation expenses to and from and in the United States of America, allowances for tuition, educational fees and subsistence.

60 Stat. 139. 50 U. S. C. app. § 1791 (c) .

Subject to the provisions of Section 311 (c) of the said Public Law 370-79th Congress, the trainees referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Article shall be designated by the President of the

Philippines in accordance with procedures and standards established

by the United States Director. The Government of the Republic

of the Philippines shall furnish to the United States Embassy at

Manila the names and necessary supporting documents of the trainees

so designated .

ARTICLE IV

Free movement of

U. S. vessels, etc.

Vessels owned by the Government of the United States of America

(including small boats) operated by the Coast and Geodetic Survey

of the United States Department of Commerce as part of the pro-

gram carried out pursuant to this Agreement shall be permitted to

move freely in the territorial waters of the Republic of the Philip-

pines, to enter and sail from the several ports with or without pilots

and without the necessity of formal entrance or clearance that may ordinarily be required of commercial and other vessels and to estab-

lish or utilize such means of communications between such vessels

and shore facilities as may be necessary to the effective administration of the programs contemplated by this Agreement. Quarantine procedures and inspections shall be required only at the first Philippine port of call on original entry.
Vessels of the Government of the United States of America used

in the Coast and Geodetic Survey program ( including small boats) , their equipment, tackle, and appurtenances shall be immune from seizure under Admiralty or other legal process.
Vessels owned by the Government of the United States of America (including small boats ) used in the Coast and Geodetic Survey program shall be exempt from all requirements of the Government of

the Republic of the Philippines relating to inspection, registry, manning or licensing of vessels or marine personnel.
Where suitable public wharves or facilities for moorage are available, such vessels shall be furnished wharfage or moorage without cost.

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES -COAST AND GEODETIC PROGRAM- MAY 12, 1947

2855

ARTICLE V

The Government of the Republic of the Philippines agrees to pro-

Provision of lands, etc.

vide free of cost to the Government of the United States of America

such lands, rights-of-way and easements as may be necessary for

carrying out the terms of this Agreement. The United States Di-

rector is authorized to accept and utilize for the performance of the terms of this Agreement contributions of labor, materials, equipment

and money from the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and its political subdivisions.

ARTICLE VI
The Government of the Republic of the Philippines agrees to provide mePnrto,vipseirosnononfele,qeuticp.-
such equipment and facilities , including such satisfactory ships and small boats for survey work as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this Agreement and as may be available to the Government of the Republic of the Philippines.
The Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall provide and pay qualified personnel (except officers and employees referred to in Articles II and III of this Agreement ) necessary to conduct surveying, mapping and charting operations in the Republic of the Philippines, and shall defray all expenses necessary for the operation of the Philippine Bureau of the Coast and Geodetic Survey except as specifically provided for elsewhere in this Agreement.

ARTICLE VII
The Government of the Republic of the Philippines will cooperate with the United States Director, or his duly authorized representative, in providing such temporary or permanent office and other space and facilities as may be required and shall render all practicable assistance in securing adequate housing accomodations, at reasonable rental rates, for personnel of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey who are engaged in effectuating this program, and their families.

Office space, etc.

ARTICLE VIII

The Government of the Republic of the Philippines will save harmless all officers and employees of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey of the Department of Commerce who are citizens of the United States of America from damage suits or other civil actions arising out of their performance of their duties under this Agreement.

Damage suits, etc.

ARTICLE IX
Officers, employees and agents of the Government of the United U.Frse.eoffmiocevres,meetcn.t of States of America who are citizens of the United States and who are on duty or who may be assigned to duty in the Republic of the Philippines under the provisions of the present Agreement, and their families, shall be permitted to move freely into and out of the Republic of the Philippines , subject to existing visa and passport regulations. Gratis transit shall be extended to all officers, employees, or agents of the

2856

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

United States Coast and Geodetic Survey over all bridges , ferries, roads and other facilities of the highways where tolls are collected for passage of vehicles or occupants.

ARTICLE X

Nontaxability of

funds, etc.

Pending the conclusion of negotiations now being considered by the

United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines, no

import, excise, consumption, or other tax, duty, or impost shall be

levied on funds or property in the Republic of the Philippines which

is owned by the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey of the Department of Commerce and used for purposes under the present Agree-

ment or on funds, materials, supplies, and equipment imported into

the Republic of the Philippines for use in connection with such pur-

poses ; nor shall any such tax, duty or impost be levied on personal

funds or property, not intended for resale, imported into the Republic

of the Philippines for the use or consumption of United States Coast

and Geodetic Survey personnel who are United States citizens ; nor

shall any export or other tax be placed on any such funds or property,

including United States Government property, in the event of its re-

moval from the Republic of the Philippines.

ARTICLE XI

Right to remove Each Government reserves the right to remove any personnel paid personnel.
by it and involved in carrying out the provisions of this Agreement with the understanding that each Government shall maintain an adequate force to carry out the provisions and requirements of this Agreement so long as the Agreement is in effect.

ARTICLE XII

Commitments by U.S.

All commitments made in this Agreement on the part of the Gov-

ernment of the United States of America shall be subject to the avail-

ability of appropriated funds by the Government of the United States of America.

ARTICLE XIII

Effective date; duration.

This Agreement shall become effective on the date of its signature

and shall continue in effect until completely executed on both sides,

but in no event later than June 30 , 1950 ; provided, however, that this

Agreement may be revised , amended , or changed in whole or in part

Termination.

with the approval of both parties as indicated and effected by an exchange of notes between the two contracting parties ; and provided further that either Government may terminate this Agreement by

giving to the other party ninety days notice in writing through diplomatic channels.

61 STAT.] PHILIPPINES COAST AND GEODETIC PROGRAM- MAY 12, 1947
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Undersigned , duly authorized thereto, have signed the present Agreement in duplicate at Manila this twelfth day of May, 1947.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:

2857

NathanielDairs Nathaniel P. Davis
Charge d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America at Manila .
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES:

RUPERTO K. KANOLEON Secretary of National Defense

2858

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

May 12, 1947 [T. I. A. 8. 1617]

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic ofthe Philippines respecting a meteorological program in the Philippines. Signed at Manila May 12, 1947; entered into force May 12, 1947.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES REGARDING METEOROLOGICAL FACILITIES AND TRAINING PROGRAM.

WHEREAS, the Government of the United States of America has

60 Stat. 138. 50 U. S. C. app. § 1788.

enacted Public Law 370-79th Congress, approved April 30, 1946, known as the Philippine Rehabilitation Act of 1946 , whereof Section 308 , entitled "Weather Information ", provides :

Meteorological facilities.
Filipino trainees

"(a) The Chief of the Weather Bureau of the Department of Commerce is authorized to establish meteorological facilities in the Philippines as may be required to provide weather information , warnings, and forecasts for general agricultural and commercial activities, including meteorological service for the air routes on which air-navigation facilities are operated by the Civil Aeronautics Administration, and to maintain such meteorological offices until the Philippine Weather Bureau is reestablished and in position to assume responsibility for the service.
" (b ) The Chief of the Weather Bureau of the Department of Commerce is authorized , under such regulations as he may adopt,

to train not to exceed fifty Filipinos in the first year and not to

60 Stat. 139. 50 U. S. C. app.
§ 1791 (c).

exceed twenty-five Filipinos in each succeeding year prior to July 1, 1950, the trainees to be designated by the President of the Philippines subject to the provisions of Section 311 ( c) , and the training to include meteorological observations, analyses, forecasting, brief-

ing of pilots, and such other meteorological duties as are deemed

necessary in maintenance of general weather service, including weather information required for air navigation and the safe opera-

tion of air traffic. The training of these employees shall be in addition to and not in lieu of Weather Bureau employees to be trained under current Weather Bureau appropriations." and

WHEREAS, the Government of the Republic of the Philippines is desirous of availing itself of the benefits, facilities and services which are authorized by the above-quoted Section 308 of the said Public Law 370-79th Congress ;
THEREFORE, the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of the Philippines have decided to conclude an agreement for the foregoing purposes and have agreed mutually as follows :

61 STAT.] PHILIPPINES--METEOROLOGICAL PROGRAM--MAY 12, 1947

2859

ARTICLE I
The responsible agent of the Government of the United States of America for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement shall be the Chief of the United States Weather Bureau of the Department of Commerce, hereinafter referred to as the Chief. The Chief may delegate to a duly authorized representative all or part of his authority for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement. The duties, functions, and powers exercised in the Republic of the Philippines under the terms of this Agreement by the Chief, or his duly authorized representative, shall be under the general supervision of the United States Ambassador accredited to the Government of the Republic of the Philippines, or, in the absence of the Ambassador, of the Charge d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America . The Chief, or his duly authorized representative, may negotiate and conclude working agreements and contracts necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Agreement.
The responsible agent of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement shall be the Director of the Weather Bureau of the Department of Agricul-
ture and Commerce, hereinafter referred to as the Director. The Director may delegate to an officer or employee of the Weather Bureau of the Philippine Department of Agriculture and Commerce all or part of his authority for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement. The Director , or his duly authorized representative, shall be the representative of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines in the negotiation and conclusion of all working agreements and contracts necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Agreement.
The Chief and the Director shall cooperate in every way possible to carry out the spirit and purpose of this Agreement.

U. S. Chief. Philippine Director. Cooperation.

ARTICLE II

The Chief, or his authorized representative, shall, with the consent of and in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of the Philippines, establish, maintain, and operate such meteorological

Establishment of meteorological facil-
iettice.s in Philippines,

facilities in the Republic of the Philippines as may be required to pro-

vide weather information , warnings, and forecasts for general agri-

cultural and commercial activities, including meteorological service

for the air routes on which air-navigation facilities are operated , all

such meteorological facilities to be operated insofar as possible in

conformance with recognized international standards for meteoro-

logical observations and procedures. The Chief shall assign to the Republic of the Philippines for the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Agreement a repre-

Instructors, administrative personnel, etc.

sentative and assistants, including instructors and administrative per-

sonnel, the salaries and expenses of all such personnel to be paid

directly by the United States Weather Bureau of the Department of Commerce.

2860

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Analysis of operational plans and pro-

The Chief, or his duly authorized representative , shall analyze the

grams.

plans submitted by the Government of the Republic of the Philippines

within the terms of this Agreement involving the expenditure of funds

Contracts.

by the Government of the United States of America and after consultation with the Director shall approve, disapprove, or modify such plans. The Chief, or his authorized representative, upon his approval

of operational plans and programs shall enter into contracts with the Government of the Republic of the Philippines when necessary for the carrying out of such programs.

ARTICLE III

Philippine trainees. The Chief shall provide for the training during the period of this

Agreement of not to exceed fifty ( 50 ) citizens of the Republic of

the Philippines in the first year and not to exceed twenty-five ( 25 )

citizens of the Republic of the Philippines in each succeeding year.

This training will include meteorological observations, analyses , fore-

casting, briefing of pilots, and such other duties as are deemed neces-

sary in the maintenance of a general weather service, including weather

information required for air navigation and the safe operation of air traffic. The Chief shall provide for the payment of all expenses

incidental to such training, including, but not necessarily limited to,

60 Stat. 139. 50 U. S. C. app.
§ 1791 (c).

transportation to and from and in the United States of America, allowances for tuition , educational fees , and subsistence.
Subject to the provisions of Section 311 ( c ) of the said Public Law 370-79th Congress, the trainees referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Article shall be designated by the President of the

Philippines in accordance with procedures and standards established by the Chief. The Government of the Republic of the Philippines

shall furnish to the United States Embassy at Manila the names and necessary supporting documents of the trainees so designated .

ARTICLE IV

Provision of lands, The Government of the Republic of the Philippines agrees to proetc.
vide free of cost to the Government of the United States of America
such lands, rights-of-way and easements necessary for carrying out the terms of this Agreement. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall furnish such equipment, facilities, and qualified personnel, including technicians, administrative personnel, and such other trained persons necessary to carry out the purposes of this Agreement, as may be available to the Government of the Republic of the Philippines. The Chief is authorized to accept and utilize for the performance of the terms of this Agreement contributions of labor, materials, equipment, and money from the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and its political subdivisions .
ARTICLE V

Submission of designated plans to Chief.

The responsible agent of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall submit to the Chief, or his duly authorized representative, plans for :

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES -METEOROLOGICAL PROGRAM- MAY 12, 1947

2861

(1 ) The establishment and maintenance of a suitable network of basic weather observing and reporting stations including a suitable number of stations at which upper air observations will be made ;
(2) The prompt collection of weather observations at one or more central forecasting offices and the development of weather analysis and forecasting procedures designed to furnish general weather service as well as meeting the economic requirements of domestic and international aviation and maritime commerce ;
( 3) The establishment of international exchanges of weather information in accordance with recognized international standards ;
(4) The compilation and publication of weather records and reports including the results of meteorological investigations ;
(5) The training of technical and professional personnel required to maintain a modern weather service ;
(6) Fiscal requirements for the inauguration , maintenance, and operation of the foregoing programs.

ARTICLE VI
The Government of the Republic of the Philippines will cooperate with the Chief, or his duly authorized representative, in providing such temporary or permanent office and other space and facilities as may be required and shall render all practicable assistance in securing adequate housing accommodations, at reasonable rental rates, for personnel of the United States Weather Bureau of the Department of Commerce engaged in effectuating this program, and their families.
ARTICLE VII
The Government of the Republic of the Philippines will save harmless all officers and employees of the United States Weather Bureau of the Department of Commerce who are citizens of the United States of America from damage suits or other civil actions arising out of their performance of their official duties under this Agreement.

Office space, etc. Damage suits, etc.

ARTICLE VIII
Free movement of Officers , employees and agents of the Government of the United officers, etc. States of America who are citizens of the United States and who are
on duty or who may be assigned to duty in the Republic of the Philippines under the provisions of the present Agreement, and their families, shall be permitted to move freely into and out of the Republic of the Philippines, subject to existing visa and passport regulations. Gratis transit shall be extended to all officers, employees , or agents
of the United States Weather Bureau of the Department of Commerce over all bridges, ferries, roads, and other facilities of the highways where tolls are collected for passage of vehicles or occupants.

2862

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ARTICLE IX

Nontaxability of funds, etc.

Pending the conclusion of negotiations now being considered by

the Government of the United States of America and the Government

of the Republic of the Philippines, no import , excise, consumption,

or other tax, duty, or impost shall be levied on funds or property in

the Republic of the Philippines which are owned by the United

States Weather Bureau of the Department of Commerce and used for

purposes under the present Agreement or on funds, materials , sup-

plies, and equipment imported into the Republic of the Philippines for use in connection with such purposes ; nor shall any such tax, duty,

or impost be levied on the personal funds or property , not intended for

resale, imported into the Republic of the Philippines for the use of

or consumption of the United States Weather Bureau personnel who

are United States citizens ; nor shall any export or other tax be placed on any such funds or property, including United States Government

property, in the event of its removal from the Republic of the

Philippines.

ARTICLE X

Right to remove personnel.

Each Government reserves the right to remove any personnel paid by it and involved in carrying out the provisions of this Agreement with the understanding that each Government shall maintain an adequate force to carry out the provisions and requirements of this Agreement so long as the Agreement is in effect .

ARTICLE XI

Commitments by U. S.

All commitments made in this Agreement on the part of the Gov-

ernment of the United States of America shall be subject to the avail-

ability of appropriated funds by the Government of the United States of America.

ARTICLE XII

Effective date; duration.

This Agreement shall become effective on the date of its signature and shall continue in effect until completely executed on both sides, but in no event later than June 30, 1950 ; provided , however, that this

Termination.

Agreement may be revised , amended , or changed in whole or in part with the approval of both parties as indicated and effected by an exchange of notes between the two contracting parties ; and provided further that either Government may terminate this Agreement by

giving to the other party ninety days notice in writing through diplomatic channels.

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-METEOROLOGICAL PROGRAM- MAY 12, 1947 IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, duly authorized thereto , have
signed the present Agreement in duplicate at Manila this 12th day of May, 1947.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:
W Na atthhearnwiie cl h Davis Nathaniel P. Davis
Charge d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America at Manila
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES :
MARTANO GARCHITORENA Secretary of Agriculture and Commerce

2863

2864

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

May 12, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1618]

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines respecting an air navigation program in the Philippines. Signed at Manila May 12, 1947; entered into force May 12, 1947.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES REGARDING AIR NAVIGATION FACILITIES AND TRAINING PROGRAM

WHEREAS, the Government of the United States of America has

60 Stat. 137. 50 U. S. C. app.
§ 1787.

enacted Public Law 370-79th Congress, approved April 30, 1946, known as the Philippine Rehabilitation Act of 1946 , whereof Section 307, entitled " Inter- Island Air Navigation," provides :

Inter-island air navigation.

"(a) The Administrator of Civil Aeronautics of the Department of Commerce is authorized to acquire, establish, operate, and to

maintain a system of air-navigation facilities and associated air-

ways communications services in the Philippines for inter- island

Filipino trainees.

airways operation and to connect the Philippine airways with international and interoceanic routes.
"(b) The Administrator of Civil Aeronautics is authorized, under

such regulations as he may adopt, to train not exceeding fifty

60 Stat. 139. 50 U.S. C. § 1791 (c).

Filipinos each year prior to July 1, 1950, to be designated by the President of the Philippines subject to the provisions of Section 311 (c) , in air-traffic control, aircraft communications, maintenance of air-navigation facilities, and such other airman functions as are

deemed necessary for the maintenance and operation of aids to air

navigation and other services essential to the orderly and safe operation of air traffic." and

WHEREAS, the Government of the Republic of the Philippines is desirous of availing itself of the benefits, facilities and services which are authorized by the above-quoted Section 307 of the said Public Law 370-79th Congress ;
THEREFORE, the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of the Philippines have decided to conclude an agreement for the foregoing purposes and have agreed mutually as follows :
ARTICLE I

U. S. Administrator.

The responsible agent of the Government of the United States of

America for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement shall be the

Administrator of Civil Aeronautics of the Department of Commerce,

hereinafter referred to as the Administrator. The Administrator

may delegate to a duly authorized representative of the Civil Aero-

nautics Administration all or any part of his authority for effectuat-

ing the provisions of this Agreement. The duties, functions, and

powers exercised in the Republic of the Philippines under the terms

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-AIR NAVIGATION PROGRAM-MAY 12, 1947

2865

of this Agreement by the Administrator or his duly authorized representative shall be under the general supervision of the United States Ambassador accredited to the Government of the Republic of the Philippines or, in the absence of the Ambassador, of the Charge d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America . The Admin-

istrator, or his duly authorized representative, may negotiate and
conclude any working agreements necessary for carrying out the
provisions of this Agreement. Philippine Director
The responsible agent of the Government of the Republic of the of Aeronautics.
Philippines for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement shall be the Director of Aeronautics of the Bureau of Aeronautics of the

Department of National Defense, hereinafter referred to as the Director of Aeronautics. The Director of Aeronautics may delegate

to an officer or employee of the Bureau of Aeronautics of the Department of National Defense all or part of his authority for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement. The Director of Aeronautics, or his duly authorized representative, shall be the representative of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines in the negotiation and conclusion of all working agreements necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Agreement.
The Administrator and the Director of Aeronautics shall cooperate

Cooperation.

in every way possible to carry out the spirit and purposes of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II

The Administrator shall acquire and establish, and shall maintain

Acquisition of air navigation facilities,

and operate during the period required for the training of citizens of etc.

the Republic of the Philippines for such operation, a system of air

navigation facilities and associated airway communications services

in the Philippines for inter-island airways operation and to connect
the Philippine airways with international and interoceanic routes. Analysis and ap-
The Administrator, or his duly authorized representative , shall proval of plans.
analyze the plans submitted by the Government of the Republic of the

Philippines within the terms of this Agreement involving the expendi-

ture of funds by the Government of the United States of America and after consultation with the Director of Aeronautics shall approve,

disapprove, or modify such plans.

ARTICLE III

The Administrator shall provide for the training during the period of this Agreement of not to exceed fifty citizens of the Republic of the Philippines each year in the duties of air traffic control, aircraft communication, maintenance of air navigation facilities, and such other airman functions as he deems necessary for the maintenance and operation of aids to air navigation and other services essential to the orderly and safe operation of air traffic. The Administrator shall provide for the payment of all expenses incidental to such training, including, but not necessarily limited to, actual transportation expenses to and from and in the United States of America, allowances for tuition, educational fees, and subsistence.

Trainees.

2866

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

60 Stat. 139.

50 U. S. C. app. Subject to the provisions of Section 311 ( c ) of the said Public Law

§ 1791 (c).

370-79th Congress, the trainees referred to in the preceding para-

graph of this Article shall be designated by the President of the

Philippines in accordance with procedures and standards established

by the Administrator. The Government of the Republic of the

Philippines shall furnish to the United States Embassy at Manila

the names and necessary supporting documents of the trainees so

designated.

ARTICLE IV

Provision of lands, etc.

The Government of the Republic of the Philippines agrees to pro-

vide free of cost to the Government of the United States of America

such lands, rights-of-way and easements necessary for carrying out the terms of this Agreement. The Administrator is authorized to accept and utilize for the performance of the terms of this Agreement contributions of labor, materials, equipment and money from the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and its political subdivisions .

ARTICLE V

Assistance by Director.

The Director of Aeronautics shall assist the representative of the

Administrator in carrying out the objectives of this Agreement by

providing :

(1 ) recommendations relative to locations for the establishment of air navigation facilities and the type of facilities and services required for each location ;
(2) advice as to the specific radio frequency assignments which may be used and as to materials and equipment owned by the Government of the Republic of the Philippines which can be made available for use in carrying out this Agreement ; and
(3) suggestions for the accomplishment of all phases of the Agreement, including suggestions for the accomplishment of the physical work involved and for the maintenance and operation of completed facilities.

The Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall furnish such equipment, facilities, and qualified personnel, including technicians, administrative personnel, and other personnel, as may be necessary and as may be available to the Government of the Republic of the Philippines to carry out the purpose and intent of this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI

Office space, etc.

The Government of the Republic of the Philippines will cooperate with the Administrator, or his duly authorized representative, in providing such temporary or permanent office and other space and facilities as may be required , and shall render all practicable assistance in securing adequate housing accommodations, at reasonable rental rates, for personnel of the Civil Aeronautics Administration engaged in effectuating this program, and their families.

61 STAT.] PHILIPPINES-AIR NAVIGATION PROGRAM-MAY 12, 1947

2867

ARTICLE VII
The Government of the Republic of the Philippines will save harmless all officers and employees of the Civil Aeronautics Administration of the Department of Commerce who are citizens of the United States from damage suits or other civil actions arising out of their performance of their duties under this Agreement.

Damage suits, etc.

ARTICLE VIII

Free movement of Officers, employees, and agents of the Government of the United U. S. officers, etc.
States of America who are citizens of the United States and who

are on duty or who may be assigned to duty in the Republic of the Philippines under the provisions of the present Agreement, and their

families, shall be permitted to move freely into and out of the Republic of the Philippines, subject to existing visa and passport regulations. Gratis transit shall be extended to all officers, employees or

agents of the Civil Aeronautics Administration of the Department

P

of Commerce over all bridges, ferries, roads and other facilities of

the highways where tolls are collected for passage of vehicles or

occupants.

1

ARTICLE IX

Pending the conclusion

of negotiations now being considered by

Nontaxability of funds, etc.

the Government of the United States of America and the Govern-

ment of the Republic of the Philippines, no import, excise, consump-

tion, or other tax, duty or impost shall be levied on funds or property

4 1

in the Republic of the Philippines which are owned by the Civil

Aeronautics Administration and used for purposes under the present

Agreement or on funds, materials, supplies, and equipment imported

"

into the Republic of the Philippines for use in connection with such purposes ; nor shall any such tax, duty, or impost be levied on the

personal funds or property , not intended for resale, imported into

the Republic of the Philippines for the use or consumption of Civil

Aeronautics Administration personnel who are United States citizens ; nor shall any export or other tax be placed on any such funds

or property, including United States Government property, in the

event of its removal from the Republic of the Philippines.

ARTICLE X

Each Government reserves the right to remove any personnel paid by it and involved in carrying out the provisions of this Agreement with the understanding that each Government shall maintain an adequate force to carry out the provisions and requirements of this Agreement so long as the Agreement is in effect.

Right to personnel.

remove

ARTICLE XI
Commitments by All commitments made in this Agreement on the part of the Gov- U.S. ernment of the United States of America shall be subject to the availability of appropriated funds made by the Government of the United States of America.

2868

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

ARTICLE XII

Effective date; duration.

This Agreement shall become effective on the date of its signature, and shall continue in effect until completely executed on both sides but in no event later than June 30, 1950 ; provided, however, that

Termination .

this Agreement may be revised , amended , or changed in whole or in part with the approval of both parties as indicated and effected by an exchange of notes between the two contracting parties ; and provided further that either Government may terminate this Agree-

ment by giving to the other party ninety days' notice in writing through diplomatic channels.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Undersigned, duly authorized thereto, have signed the present Agreement in duplicate at Manila this 12th day of May, 1947.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:

NathanielDis NATHANIEL P. DAVIS Charge d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America at Manila
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES:

RUPERTO K. KANGLEON Secretary of National Defense

61 STAT. ] CANADA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-APR. 10, 12, 1947

2869

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada amending the agreement of February 17, 1945 , respecting air transport services . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Ottawa April 10 and 12, 1947; effective April 12, 1947.

April 10 and 12, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1619]

The American Ambassador to the Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs

No. 675. SIR :

OTTAWA, Canada, April 10, 1947.

I have the honor to refer to the recent discussions held in Ottawa

by the representatives of the Governments of the United States of

America and Canada relative to air transport. As a result of these

discussions I would propose that the agreement between the United

States of America and Canada for air transport services , effected

by exchange of notes signed at Washington February 17, 1945,

be amended by the substitution of the following Annex in lieu of the Annex contained therein :

59 Stat. 1353.

,

"Annex

Routes for U. S. air"A. The airlines designated by the Government of the United States lines.

of America may operate on the following routes, with the right to

take on and put down passengers, mail and cargo at the Canadian

terminals specified :

*

Boston

Moncton

.

Boston

Montreal

New York or- Quebec

Boston

New York -

Montreal Ottawa

Washington

Buffalo

-

Montreal Ottawa Toronto

Fargo

Winnipeg

Great Falls - Lethbridge

Seattle

Vancouver

Seattle

Whitehorse

Fairbanks - Whitehorse

"In consideration of special circumstances existing on the routes from New York and Washington to Montreal and Ottawa, the Canadian Government agrees that the United States carrier may serve both Canadian points on the same flights, so long as no Canadian cabotage rights are exercised.
95347°-49- PT. III- 38

2870

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

"The service on the route between Buffalo and Toronto may, at the election of the United States Government, be rendered by two airlines. On the other routes service by a single airline only will be authorized.

"In addition to the routes listed above, airlines of United States

registry will be authorized to stop in Windsor on any route on which

they are now or in the future may be authorized by the United States

Government to serve Detroit.

Routes for Cana-

dian airlines.

"B. The airlines designated by the Government of Canada may

operate on the following routes, with the right to take on and put down passengers, mail and cargo at the United States terminals

specified :

Halifax

-

Toronto

-

Toronto

-

Toronto

-

Port Arthur-

Victoria

-

Whitehorse -

Winnipeg -

Boston New York Cleveland Chicago Duluth Seattle Fairbanks Sault Ste. Marie, MichiganToronto

"In consideration of special circumstances existing on the internal Canadian route between Winnipeg and Toronto, the United States Government agrees that the Canadian carrier on this route may make use of an airfield at Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, and may pick up and set down traffic there.
"A single airline will be authorized for each of the foregoing routes. With respect to the routes between Toronto and Cleveland and Toronto and Chicago no through services will be operated from either point in the United States to points lying beyond the territorial limits of Canada.
"In addition to the routes listed above , airlines of Canadian registry will be authorized to stop in Detroit on any route on which they are now or in the future may be authorized by the Canadian Government to serve Windsor."

If the foregoing is acceptable to the Government of Canada , this note, and your reply thereto accepting the proposals , shall be regarded as placing on record the understanding arrived at between the two Governments concerning this matter.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. RAY ATHERTON.
The Right Honorable
The Secretary of State for External Affairs, Ottawa.

61 STAT. ] CANADA--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-APR. 10, 12, 1947

2871

The Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANADA

No. 42 EXCELLENCY,

OTTAWA, 12th April, 1947.

I have the honour to refer to your Note No. 675 of April 10, 1947,

in which you propose that the Agreement between the United States and Canada for Air Transport Services, effected by an exchange of

notes signed at Washington February 17, 1945 , be amended by the substitution of the Annex contained in the above mentioned note, in lieu of the Annex contained in the notes of February 17, 1945. The

terms contained in the new Annex are acceptable to the Government of

Canada, which agrees that your note No. 675 of April 10 and this

reply shall be regarded as constituting an understanding between our two Governments concerning this matter.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
LB PEARSON for

Secretary of State for External Affairs.

His Excellency the Hon. RAY ATHERTON , Ambassador for the United States, 100 Wellington Street, Ottawa.

59Stat. 1356.

2872

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

June 2 and 3, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1620]

Agreement between the United States of America and Ireland amending the agreement of February 3, 1945, respecting air transport services . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington June 2 and 3, 1947; effective June 3, 1947.

59 Stat. 1405.

The Secretary of State to the Irish Chargé d'Affaires ad interim DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON June 2, 1947
SIR :
I refer to previous correspondence with the Legation concerning the air transport agreement concluded between Ireland and the United
States of America in February 1945 , particularly with respect to the determination of traffic points in the United States to be granted to the Irish air services as referred to in Paragraph B of the Annex.
My Government, after consideration of the wishes of the Government of Ireland in this matter, proposes that Paragraph B of the Annex of the Agreement be amended to read as follows :
"Airlines of Ireland authorized under the present agreement are accorded in the territory of the United States rights of transit, nontraffic stop and commercial entry for international traffic at Boston, New York and Chicago on the following route : "Ireland via intermediate points to New York (via Boston) and Chicago, in both directions ; provided that Chicago shall not be served on any flight serving New York and/or Boston."
If this proposal is acceptable to your Government it is suggested that this note, together with your reply thereto , constitute an amendment of the Agreement as set forth above.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration. For the Secretary of State : GARRISON NORTON
Mr. JOSEPH D. BRENNAN, Charge d'Affaires ad interim of Ireland.

The Irish Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Secretary of State
IRISH LEGATION WASHINGTON, D. C.
June 3, 1947 SIR :
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your note of June 2nd, 1947 in which you propose that Paragraph B of the Annex to the Air

61 STAT. ] IRELAND-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JUNE 2, 3, 1947

2873

Transport Agreement concluded between Ireland and the United States of America in February, 1945 be amended to read as follows:- 59 Stat. 1405.
"Airlines of Ireland authorized under the present agreement are accorded in the territory of the United States rights of transit, non-traffic stop and commercial entry for international traffic at Boston, New York and Chicago on the following route :
"Ireland via intermediate points to New York ( via Boston ) and Chicago, in both directions ; provided that Chicago shall not be served on any flight serving New York and/or Boston."
I am instructed to state that this proposal is acceptable to my Government and that they accept also your suggestion that your note and this reply constitute an amendment of the Agreement as set forth above.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration. JOSEPH D. BRENNAN .
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
The Honourable GEORGE C. MARSHALL, Secretary of State Washington, D.C.

2874

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

January 27 and April 11, 1945 [T. I. A. S. 1621 ]

Agreement between the United States of America and Iceland respecting air transportation of Icelandic passengers and mail. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Reykjavik January 27 and April 11 , 1945; entered into force April 11, 1945.

The Icelandic Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Minister UTANRÍKISRÁÐUNEYTIÐ [']

REYKJAVÍK, January 27, 1945.

Db. 65.D.1. (óskast tilgreint í svari)

59 Stat. 1464.

MONSIEUR LE MINISTRE, I have the honour to refer to our exchange of notes, dated today,
establishing an agreement between Iceland and the United States of

America relating to air transport services.

Transportation of passengers, etc. , to

Furthermore I wish to refer to our conversation concerning the said

and from Iceland. agreement, in which I expressed the desire, considering that Iceland

is an intermediate point on the contemplated air route, to have an

additional article included in the agreement to insure the transporta-

tion of passengers and mail to and from Iceland in both directions.

However this question was not stressed, because Your Excellency assured me, that this was a matter, which might more properly be

taken up separately, as it did not come within the scope of a general

basic agreement, such as the one which just has been concluded between Iceland and the United States.

With reference to the aforesaid I have the honour to request, that through the good offices of the Legation, the Government of the United States arrange, that the operators of the airlines concerned transport

Icelandic passengers and mail to and from Iceland in both directions, on an equal basis with nationals of other countries, and further that

the charges for such transportation be fixed in proportion to the distances .
I have the honour to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my

highest consideration.

OLAFUR THORS.

His Excellency LOUIS G. DREYFUS , Minister of the United States of America, Reykjavík.

1 ¹ [Translation: Ministry of Foreign Affairs.]

Jan. 27, 1945 61 STAT. ] ICELAND-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Apr. 11 , 1945

2875

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Icelandic Minister for Foreign Affairs

LEGATION OF THE

No. 220

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Reykjavik, April 11, 1945.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's note dated January

22, 1945 [ 1 ] requesting that the United States Government arrange

that operators of the airlines concerned in the reciprocal air transport agreement concluded between Iceland and the United States on Janu-

ary 27, 1945 carry Icelandic passengers and mail to and from Iceland

in both directions on an equal basis with nationals of other countries, and further that the charges for such transportation be fixed in proportion to the distances.

I have now been authorized by my Government to give you assurance that airlines of the United States, having the right to pick up and

discharge international traffic under paragraph A of the annex to the above mentioned agreement, will offer reasonable commercial service for Icelandic traffic at the airport referred to in that paragraph

59 Stat. 1464. 59 Stat. 1466.

provided that this undertaking shall not involve any discrimination between airlines of the United States and other countries operating on that same route, shall take into account the capacity of the aircraft, and shall be fulfilled in such a manner as not to prejudice the normal operations of the international air services concerned .

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest

P

consideration.

P

FRANCIS L. SPALDING

F

His Excellency OLAFUR THORS, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Reykjavik.

1 [Correct date Jan. 27, 1945. ]

2876

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

OcJtaobneurar2y3, 2139,4169, 4a7nd [T. I. A. S. 1622]

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom modifying the agreement of February 29 and March 28, 1944 , respecting claims for damages resulting from acts of members or civilian employees of armed forces. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington October 23, 1946, and January 23, 1947; entered into force January 23, 1947.

The British Ambassador to the Secretary of State

No. 581 REF : 403/24/46

BRITISH EMBASSY, WASHINGTON, D.C. , October 23, 1946.

SIR, I have the honour to inform Your Excellency that discussions which
have taken place between representatives of the United Kingdom and the United States of America, concerning the mutual forbearance by the Governments of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of the United States of America from asserting claims arising from matters in which members and civilian employees of the respective armed forces are concerned , have led to agreement in the terms set out in the annex hereto.

2. His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom have considered and approved the provisions of the annex.

3. I shall be grateful if Your Excellency will inform me whether the

United States Government likewise approve the said provisions and

whether they agree that the present note and Your Excellency's reply

shall be regarded as constituting an Agreement between our two Governments in this matter.

I have the honour to be, with the highest consideration , Sir,

Your most obedient , humble Servant.

INVERCHAPEL

The Honourable JAMES F. BYRNES,

Secretary of State

of the United States, Washington, D.C.

61 STAT.]

UNITED KINGDOM- CLAIMS- Oct. 23 , 1946 Jan. 23, 1947

2877

(W6037/15/64 ) .

ANNEX.

ARTICLE I.
Forbearance from (1 ) Each contracting Government agrees to bear its own loss and to assertion ofdesignated
forbear from asserting on its own behalf against the other any claim claims.
in relation to the loss, destruction or damage to its property , or injury

to or death of any members or civilian employees of its Armed Forces resulting from any acts, omissions or other activities during the opera-

tion of this Agreement of any members or civilian employees of the Armed Forces of the other contracting Government.
(2 ) The provisions of paragraph ( 1 ) of this Article shall not apply to the following claims -

Nonapplicability.

( i ) Claims in relation to loss , destruction or damage to property or to injury or death resulting from combat activity.
(ii ) Claims based on the taking for military purposes of the property of either contracting Government by members or civilian employees of the Armed Forces of the other contracting Government.

(iii ) Claims made by or on behalf of individuals or by or on behalf of private associations partnerships, corporations or other nongovernmental bodies.

ARTICLE II.
Investigation, etc., (1 ) (i ) Subject to the provisions of paragraph ( 3 ) of this Article, of claims of third claims of third parties (other than enemy nationals ) arising out of parties. incidents involving vehicles of both contracting Governments shall be submitted for investigation and determination as to liability to the United States Claims Service if the incident occurs in a United States controlled area or to the British Claims Service if the incident occurs in a British controlled area, but no liability shall be assumed and no settlement of a claim effected by either Government with respect to any such claim unless the authorities appointed by the other contracting Government for the purpose of reviewing such claims decide in the particular case that such liability exists.
(ii ) For the purpose of this Agreement the expression "claims "Claims of third parties. "
of third parties" shall mean claims based on the acts or omissions of the drivers or riders of vehicles which are the property of either Government brought against either contracting Government by any person other than the drivers or riders.
Cost of settlement. (2 ) If it is found that the incident resulted from negligence or fault attributable to both contracting Governments, the cost of settlement
will be borne equally between them, irrespective of the relative degree of negligence or fault attributable to each Government. Neither contracting Government shall be liable to contribute to the cost of
settlement where no negligence or fault is attributable to either
Government or where the incident results from combat activity.

2878

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

wiCthlianimmasttefrsalolfirneg- (3 ) If any such claim by a third party falls within the matters which

ciprocal or mutual

aid .

are the subject of reciprocal aid under the Reciprocal Aid Agreements

of 1944 in force between the United States and France, the Nether-

lands and Belgium, or of mutual aid under the Mutual Aid

Agreements of 1944 in force between the United Kingdom and France, the Netherlands and Belgium, such claims shall be in-

vestigated in the country in which the incident occurred by the

authorities provided under the respective Reciprocal or Mutual Aid Agreement. If such authorities decide that both the Government of

the United States and the Government of the United Kingdom are liable, the cost of settlement of the claim as between the Government

of the United States and the Government of the United Kingdom ,

shall be charged as reciprocal aid to the United States and as mutual

aid to the United Kingdom in equal proportions irrespective of the

degree of fault attributable to either Government. The provisions

of this paragraph shall not, however, be read as affecting any existing

right of the Government of the United States or of the Government

of the United Kingdom as against the Government of the country in

which a claim is investigated under this paragraph to consider and

decide whether such charge should be treated as reciprocal or mutual

aid under the respective Reciprocal or Mutual Aid Agreement.

ARTICLE III.

agArpepemleincta.bility of This Agreement shall apply to claims in relation to acts , omissions or other activities occurring in any part of the world.
ARTICLE IV.

sioRne.troactive provi

( 1 ) This Agreement shall be deemed to have come into force on the 6th June, 1944, except as to such claims by third parties as may have been determined prior to the 12th November, 1945 .

Ante, p. 2734.

( 2) This Agreement shall supersede, as from the 6th June, 1944 , the arrangement for mutual forbearance from a certain class of claims embodied in paragraph 11 of the annex to the Notes exchanged in London on the 29th February, 1944, by His Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and the United States Ambassador, but the arrangement made by exchange of notes on 29th February, 1944, remains in full force as to claims arising out of incidents which occurred before the 6th June, 1944.

Duration. Termination.

ARTICLE V.
This Agreement shall remain in force during the period of the present joint participation by the Governments of the United States and of the United Kingdom in any military operation or military occupation but if before the period of joint participation expires either contracting Government gives to the other a written notice of its intention to terminate this Agreement, the Agreement shall cease to have effect three months after the date of such notice.

61 STAT. ]

UNITED KINGDOM- CLAIMS- Oct. 23, 1946 Jan. 23, 1947

ARTICLE VI.

2879

This Agreement shall not be deemed to modify or affect the provisions of the Agreement between His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom and the United States Government for the Provision of Mutual Aid concerning Certain Problems of Marine Transportation and Litigation signed at London on the 4th December, 1942.

56 Stat. 1780.

The Secretary of State to the British Ambassador DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

EXCELLENCY :

January 23, 1947

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note No. 581 of October 239, 1946 to which was annexed the text of a proposed agreement concerning the mutual forbearance by the Governments of the United States of America and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from asserting claims arising out of matters in which members or civilian employees of the respective armed forces of the two countries are concerned.

The terms of the proposed agreement are acceptable to this Government, and your Excellency's note and this reply thereto shall be regarded as constituting an Agreement between our two Governments in this matter.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
DEAN ACHESON

For the Secretary of State

His Excellency The Right Honorable THE LORD INVERCHAPEL, P.C., G.C. M.G., British Ambassador.

Ante, p. 2876. Acceptance by U.S.

2880

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

January 24 and February 12, 1944, and February 14
and 19, 1946
[T. I. A. S. 1623]

Agreements between the United States of America and Colombia respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Colombia. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Bogotá February 14 and 19, 1946; entered into force February 19, 1946. And exchange of notes signed at Bogotá January 24 and February 12, 1944; entered into force February 12, 1944.

The American Ambassador to the Colombian Minister of Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE

No. 137

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Bogotá, February 14, 1946

57 Stat. 1310, 1313.

EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to refer to Note No. 115 of October 23 , 1942

of the Ambassador of the United States in Colombia, to communica-

Post, p. 2892. Post, p. 2893.

tion No. S- 1110 of October 23 , 1942 from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to Note No. 285 of January 24 , 1944 of the Ambassador of the United States and to communication No. S- 134 of February 12, 1944 from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which relate to the establishment and continuance of a cooperative program of public

health and sanitation in Colombia, the specific operational details of which were established in agreements entered into between The

Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the Ministry of Labor,

Post, p. 2894.

Health and Social Welfare in October of 1942 [ ' ] and January of 1944. The program was undertaken by both governments pursuant to Resolution XXX approved at the Third Meeting of the Ministers

of Foreign Affairs of the American Republics held at Rio de Janeiro

in January, 1942. [2]

Contributions of U. S. and Colombia.

It will be recalled that as agreed in the mentioned communica-

tions, my Government continuously since 1942 has furnished the

services of experts in the field of health and sanitation to cooperate

with officials of the Colombian Government and particularly the

Ministry of Labor , Health and Social Welfare in a specific cooperative program for the improvement of health and sanitation in Colombia,

and that the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública

was established within the said Ministry as the instrumentality for the execution of that program.

Under the agreement of 1942 my Government has furnished the sum of one million dollars (US$ 1,000,000 . ) and Your Excellency's Government has contributed the sum of one million pesos (Col. $ 1,000,000 . ) for the execution of the cooperative program and under the agreement of 1944 my Government has furnished the additional

1 [Not printed.] 2 [Department of State Bulletin, Feb. 7, 1942, p. 137. ]

61 STAT. ]

Jan. 24, Feb. 12, 1944 COLOMBIA-HEALTH AND SANITATION-

Feb. 14, 19, 1946

2881

sum of six hundred thousand dollars (US$600,000 .) and Your Excel-

lency's Government has contributed an equivalent amount in Co-

lombian pesos or one million fifty thousand pesos (Col. $ 1,050,000 . )

for the same purpose. These sums, which are in addition to the serv-

ices and expenses of the group of experts, have been paid to and expended by the Servicio Cooperativo in the execution of the co-

operative program and will be virtually exhausted at the expiration of the present agreement on June 30, 1946 .
The program has consisted of specific projects agreed upon between the Minister of Labor, Health and Social Welfare and the chief of the group of experts, as representative of the Institute of Inter-

Projects.

American Affairs . While many projects have been completed, others of importance are still in process of execution, and the oppor-

tunity exists for the initiation of beneficial new projects. My Government's participation in the program has been carried out

through The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, which, as Your

Excellency knows, is a corporate agency of my Government and is

wholly owned , controlled and financed by it. Your Excellency's Government has indicated in informal conver-
sations with me and with the representative of the Institute of Inter-

Extension O pro-
gram after June 30, 1946.

American Affairs its desire that the cooperative program of health and

sanitation be further extended after June 30, 1946 , and its willingness to make additional funds available for the purpose.

I have the honor to state that my Government pursuant to the expressed desire of Your Excellency's Government, is also willing to extend the cooperative program of health and sanitation in Colombia for an additional period, and is prepared to make available through The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, additional funds and to continue to furnish the services of experts , for the purpose of cooperating with Your Excellency's Government in prolonging that program. Such funds would be added to the funds remaining from the contributions made under the previous agreements and to the new funds offered by Your Excellency's Government. It is proposed that the period of extension, the sums to be made available by both Governments and any additional details with regard to the continuance and scope of the program be worked out by mutual agreement between the Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Welfare and Colonel Harold B. Gotaas, President of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, and be incorporated in a written agreement between the Ministry and the Institute . It is not contemplated that any substantial change in the modus operandi established under the existing agreement will be required .
Colonel Gotaas has now arrived in Bogotá to represent the Institute in connection with any extension of the program .

Post, p. 2883.

I am hopeful that the proposal is agreeable to Your Excellency's

Government and I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion as soon as may be possible in order that the

details of the extension may be worked out during Colonel Gotaas' stay in Bogotá.

2882

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
JOHN C. WILEY His Excellency
Señor Doctor don FERNANDO LONDOÑO Y LONDOÑO, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Bogotá.

The Colombian Minister ofForeign Relations to the American Ambassador

No D.- 343-

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES
Bogotá, febrero 19 de 1946

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Tengo el honor de avisar recibo de la nota de Vuestra Excelencia , fecha 14 de febrero en curso, número 137 , relativa a la continuación

del programa cooperativo de higiene y salubridad en Colombia cuyos detalles han venido siendo precisados entre el Ministerio de Trabajo , Higiene y Previsión Social y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos de Washington. El texto de la nota de Vuestra Excelencia fue pasado oportunamente a conocimiento del mencionado Ministerio del Trabajo .
Por otra parte, el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos en nota de 19 de los corrientes, se ha dirigido al Ministerio de Trabajo , puntualizando algunas reformas que considera necesarias para la prórroga del anterior convenio y para la mutua conveniencia de las Partes.
Me es grato manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia ante todo que el Gobierno de Colombia ve con verdadera satisfacción que la colaboración entre este Gobierno y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, como rama del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos , pueda continuar y que se lleve a cabo la prórroga de los programas, sujeta naturalmente a las modificaciones que se acuerden conforme a las necesidades de esta nueva época .

En cuanto al período de prórroga, a las sumas que han de ser aportadas por ambos Gobiernos y a otros particulares , todo ello puede ser materia de estudio entre el señor Coronel Gotaa, como repre-

sentante del Instituto , y el Ministerio de Trabajo , Higiene y Previsión Social.

Esta Cancillería autoriza plenamente la celebración de ese pacto entre las dos entidades mencionadas.

Con esta grata oportunidad renuevo a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más elevada consideración.

A Su Excelencia el señor JOHN C. WILEY,

FERNANDO LONDONO L

Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América Ciudad.

61 STAT.] COLOMBIA- HEALTH AND SANITATION- Jan. 24, Feb. 12, 1944 Feb. 14, 19, 1946

2883

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS

No. D. - 343-

Bogotá, February 19, 1946

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's note, of February 14 of the current year, number 137 , with reference to the continuation of the cooperative program of hygiene and health

Ante, p. 2880.

in Colombia the details of which are being planned by the Ministry of Labor, Hygiene and Social Welfare and the Institute of Inter-

American Affairs in Washington. The text of Your Excellency's note was communicated to the aforementioned Ministry of Labor.
On the other hand, the Institute of Inter-American Affairs in a note

of the 19th of the current month, has addressed the Ministry of Labor, indicating some changes which it considers necessary for the extension of the above agreement and for the mutual convenience of the Parties.

I am pleased to inform Your Excellency in the first place that the

Government of Colombia views with real satisfaction the fact that the

1

collaboration between this Government and the Institute of Inter-

American Affairs, as a branch of the Government of the United States ,

may continue and carry out the extension of the programs, subject naturally to the changes which are agreed upon in conformity with the necessities of this new epoch.

As to the time of extension, the amounts which have to be contributed by both Governments and other particulars, all that may be a

matter for study between Colonel Gotaa, as the representative of the

Institute, and the Ministry of Labor, Hygiene and Social Welfare.

4

This Chancelry authorizes fully the carrying out of this agreement

between the two entities referred to .

4

I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
FERNANDO LONDOÑO L His Excellency
JOHN C. WILEY,

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary

of the United States of America City.

The President of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs to the Colombian Minister of Labor, Hygiene, and Social Welfare

OFFICE OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-AMERICAN
AFFAIRS

Sr. Dr. ADÁN ARRIAGA ANDRADE

February 19, 1946

Ministro de Trabajo , Higiene y Previsión Social E. S. D.

I have the honor to refer to the diplomatic notes exchanged between His Excellency the Ambassador of the United States of America in the

2884

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

57 Stat. 1310, 1313.
Post, p. 2892. Post, pp. 2894, 2901. Ante, p. 2880.

Republic of Colombia and His Excellency the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Colombia dated October 23 , 1942 ; to the communications exchanged between The Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Welfare dated respectively October 20 and 23 , 1942 ; [ ] to the diplomatic notes exchanged between the Ambassador and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Colombia dated January 24, 1944, and February 12 , 1944, respectively, and to the official communications exchanged between the mentioned institute and the Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Welfare dated respectively January 27 and 29 , 1944 ; to the notes exchanged between the mentioned Ambassador and the Minister of Foreign Affairs dated February 14 , and February (sic) , 1946 , respectively, and to the conversations which have recently taken place between them and Your Excellency and the undersigned.

These communications and the conversations relate to the cooperative program of health and sanitation provided for by Resolution XXX approved at the Third Meeting of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs held at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in January , 1942. The cooperative program
of health and sanitation undertaken in Colombia in 1942 pursuant to
the diplomatic notes and official communications exchanged in that year, was extended until June 30, 1946 , by means of the communica-
tions exchanged in 1944 , which constituted a new Basic Agreement
governing the present program . Sums contributed by U. S. and Colom- In the agreement of 1942 the Government of Colombia obligated bia.
itself to contribute the sum of one million pesos (Col. $ 1,000,000 .) for the program and the Government of the United States of America, the sum of one million dollars (US$ 1,000,000 . ) . In the agreement of 1944 the Governments of Colombia and of the United States obligated themselves to furnish for the continuation of the program the sums
of one million fifty thousand pesos (Col. $ 1,050,000 . ) and six hundred thousand dollars ($US 600,000 . ) (one million fifty thousand pesos) (Col. $ 1,050,000 . ) respectively. The parties have made these contributions in full compliance with the agreements ; the cooperative program is in full development at the present time but unless extended will terminate June 30 , of the present year.

grEaxmt.ension

of pro-

The Republic of Colombia has expressed its desire that the program be extended for an additional period and has offered to increase the proportion of its contribution.

I have the pleasure of informing Your Excellency that the Govern-

ment of the United States of America, as represented by The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, is in agreement with and accepts that suggestion and is prepared to continue furnishing the services of tech-

nicians and to make available an additional sum of money for the purpose of cooperating with the Government of Colombia in the con-

tinuation of the program of health and sanitation.

thAevrasiluambsi.lity of fur- Confirming the conversations which have taken place between us as to the sums which each Government could presently make available for the continuation of the program, I have the honor to state that my

1 [Not printed.]

61 STAT.] COLOMBIA-HEALTH AND SANITATION- Jan. 24, Feb. 12, 1944 Feb. 14, 19, 1946

2885

Government, through The Institute of Inter-American Affairs will

make available the further sum of one hundred twenty thousand

dollars (US$ 120,000 . ) and the services of a Field Party, as in the past . It is my understanding that the Government of Colombia will make available the further sum of two million pesos (Col $ 2,000,000 .) ,

equivalent to US$ 1,142,840 . at the present rate of exchange. These

funds would be combined and expended for the continuation of the cooperative program of public health and sanitation in Colombia

until June 30, 1948.

The sums mentioned would be in addition to the one million six

hundred thousand dollars (US$ 1,600,000 . ) (2,800,000 . pesos Colombi-

anos) already furnished for the program by the Government of the United States and the two million fifty thousand pesos (Col. $2,050, -

000.) US$ 1,171,410 . ) already contributed by the Government of

Colombia. They are in addition also to the sums expended by the Institute for the Field Party and their expenses and administrative

costs, which by June 30, 1946, will amount to approximately four
hundred twenty thousand dollars (US$420,000 .) (735,000 pesos Colombianos ).
Administration of It is proposed that the cooperative program continue to be carried funds.
out, and that all the funds made available for its continuance be

administered, in accordance with the provisions of the Basic Agreement of 1944 and the minor amendments necessary for its extension,

all of which provisions are set out hereinafter for the mutual convenience of the parties.
Maintenance of the (1 ) The Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Welfare (hereinafter Servicio.
called the Ministry) and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs shall

continue to maintain the special technical service known as the Servicio

Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública (hereinafter called the Servicio) which shall continue to function as a separate section within and subordinated to the Ministry. The Director of the Servicio shall be responsible to the Minister or his representative for

Director.

the execution of the cooperative program of health and sanitation

and may do all things necessary or desirable for the accomplishment of this purpose.
(2) The Institute of Inter-American Affairs (hereinafter referred to as the Institute) , which is a corporate instrumentality of the United

Maintenance offield party of technicians.

States Government devoted to the execution of certain of its public purposes and having juridic personality, may continue to maintain in

Colombia a field party of technicians to consummate the cooperative program hereinafter described . The party of technicians shall be of

Chief.

such size as the Institute considers appropriate and shall be under the direction of an official who shall have the title of Chief of Field Party,

Health and Sanitation Division , The Institute of Inter-American

Affairs, which Chief of Party shall be acceptable to the Minister of

Labor, Health and Social Welfare (hereinafter called the Minister) .

This official shall be the representative of the Health and Sanitation Division of the Institute in Colombia in connection with the program
95347-49- PT. III- -39

2886

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

to be undertaken in accordance with this agreement. The Government of Colombia may ask for the withdrawal of the Chief of Party when in its opinion his performance does not satisfy or interpret the objectives contained in this agreement, and may ask for a replacement satisfactory to both parties .

recAtpopro. intment of Di- (3) The Government of Colombia shall appoint as Director of the Servicio the Chief of Field Party, Health and Sanitation Division, The Institute of Inter-American Affairs . With the approval of the

Projects.

Minister, the Director of the Servicio may delegate his authority to persons employed by the Servicio or members of the Field Party of the Institute in Colombia.
(4) The cooperative health and sanitation program in Colombia shall continue to consist of individual projects. The kind of work and the

specific projects to be undertaken in the execution of this agreement and the allocation of funds therefor shall be agreed upon in writing

by the Minister and by the Chief of Field Party in his capacity as representative of the Health and Sanitation Division of the Institute

in Colombia (wherever the latter official is mentioned herein, it shall be understood that he acts in said capacity) and shall be carried out

by the Director of the Servicio in conformity with policies prescribed jointly by the Minister and the said Chief of Field Party for the Institute. No project will be carried out without the presentation of studies and definite plans for both the technical and administrative

aspects of the work. Servicio funds shall be disbursed only upon projects previously agreed to in this manner.

grLaimm.itation of pro-

It is suggested that the cooperative program of health and sanitation be limited to relatively few projects each of which would be of special interest to the Government of Colombia, in order that definite results may be obtained, and that such results would be indicative of the cooperation existing between the Government of Colombia and the

Government of the United States in the important field of health and sanitation .

It is suggested that the work of the Servicio be limited to the following activities or some of them :

Completion or continuation of the projects which are being carried out at the present time in virtue of the Basic Agreements. Organization (including the construction , if necessary) and operation of a limited number of health centers. The execution of certain specific campaigns or programs falling within the province of the Ministry. Public Health Education . Studies and measures for the control of Malaria. Sanitary works and other constructions necessary to carry out specific programs. Organization of maritime, river and aerial sanitation (quarantine service) and the sanitation of ports. Nutritional programs insofar as they relate to public health. Training of personnel to serve in programs of public health and sanitation.

61 STAT. ] COLOMBIA- HEALTH AND SANITATION- Jan. 24 , Feb. 12 , 1944 Feb. 14, 19 , 1946
(5) For the purpose of continuing the cooperative health and sanitation program in Colombia, it is proposed for consideration by Your Excellency that the Institute deposit in the Banco de la República in Bogotá (or in such other bank as may be mutually agreed upon by the Minister and the Chief of Field Party) to the account of the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública the said sum of one hundred twenty thousand dollars (US$ 120,000 . ) on the following basis :

2887 Deposit offunds.

During July, 1946 During January, 1947

US$60,000 . US$60,000.

and that the Government of Colombia deposit to the account of the

Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública in the same

bank, the sum of two million pesos (Col. $ 2,000,000 .) (being the

equivalent of US $ 1,142,840 . at the present official rate of exchange) , on the following basis :

During July, 1946

Col.$ 500,000.

During January, 1947

Col. $ 500,000.

During July, 1947

Col. $ 500,000.

During January, 1948

Col.$ 500,000.

1

Exemption of funds (6) Funds introduced into Colombia by the Institute for the purpose from currency con-

of the cooperative program shall be exempt from the taxes , service trols.

charges, investment or deposit requirements and other currency controls imposed upon the foreign exchange of private persons , and

shall enjoy the most favorable government rate of exchange. (7) Materials and equipment or other property furnished by the Government of Colombia or by the Institute to the Servicio at the

Consideration of materials, etc. , as cash payment .

request of its Director shall be considered as a cash payment equal to the cost thereof (including shipping, handling, insurance and other incidentals) if purchased on the current market ; but if not so purchased , it shall be treated as a cash payment in an amount agreed on in writing by the Minister and Chief of Party. Interest, if any, earned on deposits of Servicio funds shall not be credited against the

Interest on deposits.

obligations of the parties, but shall be added to Servicio funds. (8) The funds deposited by either party to the credit of the Servicio

Withdrawals.

for any particular period shall not be drawn against until the cor-

responding deposit of the other party, if required by paragraph (5) , shall have been made ; and if not made within sixty (60) days there-

Return of deposit.

after, the first-mentioned deposit shall be returned to the contributor

upon the sole signature of its representative.

(9)

All funds deposited , under the original agreement and its exten-

Nonreversion of funds.

sions , to the credit of the Servicio in the designated bank and not

spent during the period or fiscal year in which deposited , shall con-

tinue to be available for the purposes of this program during the

existence of this agreement and shall not revert to the Governments of the United States of America or of Colombia. The Minister and maDiinsipnogsiftuinodns,oeftc. re-

the Chief of Field Party in Colombia shall determine by mutual agreement the disposition and administration of the funds and other

property remaining to the Servicio on the termination of this agreement, June 30 , 1948.

2888

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

Sums withheld for (1) In view of the fact that some purchases of materials and supplies U. S. A.
will be made and other expenses will be incurred in the United States of America, the Minister and the Chief of Field Party may agree to
withhold from the deposits to be made by the Institute an amount
which is estimated to be necessary to pay for said purchases and

Unexpended ances.

expenses. Sums so withheld shall be considered as if deposited under bal- the terms of this agreement, but any balance of such funds not ex-
pended or obligated shall be deposited to the account of the Servicio

Administrative autonomy of the Servicio.

in the designated bank at any time when the Chief of Field Party and the Minister so agree.
( 11 ) The Servicio shall enjoy administrative autonomy within the limits of this agreement, and shall have the right to make its own

purchases and to execute its own contracts, in the same manner as at the present time. The deposit , expenditure, audit and accounting of funds in the Servicio account as well as the purchase, inventory,

use and sale of all real and personal property for the account of the Servicio, and all other administrative matters, shall be regulated, controlled and conducted by and under such rules, regulations and pro-

cedures as have been or shall be mutually agreed upon by the Minister and the Chief of Field Party. No funds shall be disbursed from Servicio bank accounts without the signature of the Director of the Servicio, or his delegate.

ituArcecso, uetnct.s of expend. (12) The Director of the Servicio shall present to the Minister monthly or at such other intervals as the Minister may desire, a complete

account of all its expenditures, financial transactions and obligations. The accounts and books of the Servicio shall be available for audit, whenever it is considered necessary, by either an appropriate agency

of the Government of Colombia or by the Chief of Field Party or his delegate. Any such audit shall be conducted with reference to the

standards, rules and procedures established by or pursuant to the terms of this agreement.

resIsnfroerpomrattsi.on; prog (13) The Director of the Servicio shall furnish the Minister any information which is desired concerning the Servicio or its activities.

Monthly and at such other intervals as the Ministry may desire, the

Director shall submit a report to the Minister regarding the progress

Determination of conditions of employ.
ment.

of the work of the Servicio and its specific projects . ( 14) The Minister and the Director of the Servicio by mutual agreement shall determine the positions, salaries, qualifications, and condi-

tions of employment within the Servicio, all in accordance with the

general policies previously agreed upon between the Minister and the

Chief of Field Party of the Institute in Colombia. The Director of

the Servicio shall select and discharge its employees but his determina-

tion shall be subject to the approval of the Minister. The Ministry

shall issue the appropriate resolutions . The Director of the Servicio

shall also select and discharge the laborers of the Servicio .

Execution o con-

tracts.

(15) All contracts and agreements relating to the administration of

the Servicio and to the execution of projects previously agreed upon

between the Minister and the Chief of Party, shall be executed in the name of the Servicio and by its Director, provided, however,

Jan. 24, Feb. 12, 1944 61 STAT.] COLOMBIA- HEALTH AND SANITATION-
Feb. 14, 19, 1946

2889

that contracts governing the operation of services or facilities estab-
lished by the Servicio, or contracts providing for the expenditure of
more than Col. $3,000.00 should be signed and executed jointly with the Minister.
Rightsand privileges (16) All rights and privileges which are enjoyed by government de- of Servicio personnel, partments and official agencies of government in Colombia and by etc.

the personnel and employees of the same shall accrue to the Servicio and to all its personnel and employees in its and their official business.

Such rights and privileges shall include , for example and not exclusively, free postal, telegraph and telephone service whenever possible, passes on railroads administered by the Government of Colombia

and the right to rebates or preferential tariffs allowed to departments of the Government of Colombia by domestic companies of maritime

and river navigation, rail, auto and air transportation, telegraph, telephone, etc. and also freedom and immunity from excise, stamp, property, income and any and all other taxes as well as from consular

charges and customs duties upon imports for the use of the Servicio, whether imported in the name of the Servicio or in the name of a third person and contracted for by the Servicio . The activities and

contracts of the Servicio shall enjoy the same exemptions and preroga-

tives as the activities and contracts of the Colombian Government .

The Institute of Inter-American Affairs shall enjoy the immunities

Immunities, etc., of Institute and employ-

to which it is entitled as an agency of the Government of the United ees.

States of America and in addition the Institute and its employees

shall enjoy the same rights, privileges, exemptions and immunities

as the Servicio and its employees, with respect to its and their opera-

tions which are related to, and property which is to be used for, the

program herein agreed upon.

(17)

All remuneration and expenses , including travelling expenses, of

Expenses party .

of

field

the Field Party shall be paid exclusively from the funds of the Insti-

tute and not by the Servicio and shall not be credited against the funds herein described.

Exemption of U. S. (18) All employees of the Institute who are citizens of the United personnelfrom income

States of America and are engaged in carrying out the objectives of taxes, etc.

the cooperative health and sanitation program shall be exempt from

all income taxes and social security taxes with respect to income on which they are obligated to pay income or social security taxes to the Government of the United States of America and from property taxes

on personal property intended for their own use. Said employees who are members of the Field Party shall also be exempt from the payment

of customs and import duties on their personal effects and equipment and supplies for their own use ; and from investments and deposit re-

quirements and other foreign exchange controls, on funds brought into Colombia for normal living expenses.

( 19)

At the termination of this agreement all real and personal prop-

Ownership of Servicinity.

erty of the Servicio shall be and remain the property of the Government of Colombia, in accordance with the laws of Colombia.

(20)

All rights , powers, privileges or duties conferred by this agree-

Delegation of powers, etc.

ment upon the Minister and upon the Chief of Field Party may be

2890

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

delegated to representatives . Such delegation shall be in writing and

shall state either generally or specifically the powers and duties of said

representative. The National Director of Health may act for the Minister by reason of his office and without any other requisite, and

should advise the Minister in relation to action to be taken by him in

the course of the cooperative program . Regardless of the existence of persons empowered to act for them, the Minister and the Director of

the Servicio or the Chief of Field Party shall have the right to refer any

matter directly to one another and to decide it.

toAcptirveitviieos upsurasguraenet- (21) Without prejudice to the power of agreeing upon later amendments.
ments or changes , the projects and activities undertaken by the
Servicio pursuant to the previous basic agreements shall continue to be
carried out in accordance with the terms of the agreements and under-

standings entered into between the Minister and the Chief of Field Party, or the Director of the Servicio (or their representatives) . In the same manner, the rules, regulations and procedures which have been mutually agreed upon between them shall remain in effect insofar as they are not inconsistent with the express provisions of this Basic Agreement. Action already taken with respect to the naming or approval of personnel shall not be affected hereby. Funds retained by the Institute in the United States in accordance with Clause 10 of the

Legislation, etc.

previous basic agreement, shall remain available for the cooperative program . (22) The Government of Colombia will obtain or endeavor to obtain

the legislation, decrees, orders or resolutions necessary to carry out the terms of this agreement.

Replacement of pre- Since all the funds allocated by the previous basic agreements have vious agreements.
already been deposited and since the provisions of the previous basic agreements are incorporated in this agreement with the few amendments necessary for the continuation of the program, it is proposed that this Basic Agreement, provided it is accepted and agreed to by your Excellency, shall replace previous agreements and shall govern the future operations of the entire cooperative health and sanitation program of Colombia and the disbursement of both the new funds and the balance of the old funds.

As President of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, I am prepared to consider this letter and Your Excellency's acceptance of the provisions contained in it as constituting in form and effect a completely binding and effective agreement between The Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the Government of Colombia in accordance with the terms contained herein.
Accept, Excellency , the assurance of my highest consideration. HAROLD B. GOTAAS President

The Institute of Inter-American Affairs

Jan. 24, Feb. 12, 1944 61 STAT.] COLOMBIA- HEALTH AND SANITATION- Feb. 14, 19, 1946
The Colombian Minister of Labor, Hygiene, and Social Welfare to the President of the Institute of Inter- American Affairs
REPUBLIC DE COLOMBIA MINISTERIO DE TRABAJO , HIGIENE, Y PREVISION SOCIAL
Numero: 05678 BOGOTÁ, febrero 20 de 1946. Señor Coronel HAROLD B. Gotaas Presidente del Instituto de Relaciones Interamericanas, Ciudad.
Correspondo a su atenta nota de 19 de febrero, en la cual usted, en representación del Instituto de Relaciones Interamericanas, propone a este Ministerio un proyecto de convenio adicional a nuestro actual programa cooperativo de salubridad y saneamiento que se realiza en Colombia por intermedio del Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública.
Debidamente autorizado por el Excelentísimo Señor Presidente de la República y por el señor Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores, tengo el honor de manifestar a usted que este Ministerio acepta en todas sus partes en contenido del convenio adicional adjunto, y aprovecha la oportunidad para significar por su digno conducto , al Instituto de Relaciones Interamericanas y al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, las más expresivas gracias por la contribución que vienen prestando a nuestro país en el desarrollo de campañas sanitarias de gran significación para el pueblo colombiano.
Del señor Coronel , muy atento y seguro servidor, ADAN ARRIAGA ANDRADE,
Ministro de Trabajo , Higiene, y Prevision Social.

2891

Translation

REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA MINISTRY OF LABOR, HYGIENE, AND SOCIAL WELFARE.
Number: 05678

Colonel HAROLD B. GotAAS

Bogotá, February 20, 1946.

President ofthe Institute of Inter-American Affairs, City.

I am replying to your kind note of February 19 , in which you, as a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, propose to this Ministry a plan for an additional agreement to our present cooperative program of health and sanitation which is being carried out

Ante, p. 2883.

in Colombia through the intermediary of the Inter-American Coopera-

tive Public Health Service. Duly authorized by His Excellency the President of the Republic
and by the Minister of Foreign Relations , I have the honor to inform

Acceptance of agreement by Colombia.

you that this Ministry accepts in its entirety the contents of the addi-

2892

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
tional enclosed agreement, and avails itself of the opportunity to express its most sincere thanks to the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and to the Government of the United States of America for the contribution which they are making to our country by the carrying out of health campaigns of great significance for the Colombian people.
Very sincerely yours, ADAN ARRIAGA ANDRADE,
Minister of Labor, Hygiene, and Social Welfare

The American Ambassador to the Colombian Minister of Foreign Relations

EMBASSY OF THE

No. 285

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Bogotá, January 24, 1944

57 Stat. 1310, 1313.

EXCELLENCY: I have the honor to refer to my Note no. 115 of October 23, 1942
and to Communication no . S 1110 of October 23 , 1942 from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with regard to the establishment of a cooperative program of public health and sanitation in Colombia.

It will be recalled that my government agreed to send experts to Colombia to cooperate with officials of the Colombian Government,

and particularly the Ministry of Trabajo , Higiene y Prevision Social, in a specific program for the improvement of health and sanitation conditions in Colombia in accordance with a detailed agreement to

be worked out between the Ministry of Trabajo, Higiene y Prevision Social and the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs . It was agreed at that time that the Government of the United States, through the

agency of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs would provide not to exceed one million dollars for the execution of this program

and it was subsequently agreed, in the exchange of communications between the Ministry of Trabajo, Higiene y Prevision Social and the representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, that the Colombian Government would make available the sum of one million

pesos as its financial contribution to the joint enterprise, and in addi-

tion would furnish such expert personnel and services as it might

consider necessary for the efficient development of the program .

Following the exchange of communications between Your Excel-

lency's Ministry and this Embassy details with regard to the execution

of the program were worked out between the Minister of Trabajo,

Higiene y Prevision Social and General George C. Dunham, represent-

ing the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs. This led to the estab-

lishment within the Ministry of Trabajo, Higiene y Prevision Social

Availability ofadditional funds.

of the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Publica which has been administering the details of the program .
I have now been informed by the Department of State at Washing-

ton that additional funds amounting to $600,000 have been made

available by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs for the con-

tinuation of the joint program in Colombia, to be expended over a

Jan. 24, Feb. 12 , 1944 61 STAT. ] COLOMBIA- HEALTH AND SANITATION-
Feb. 14, 19, 1946
period to be mutually agreed upon between the appropriate officials of the Colombian Government and the Vice President of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, General Dunham, who is now in Bogotá. It is proposed that for the continuation of this program the Government of Colombia likewise contribute the sum of $600,000 U. S. currency , and that further additional details with regard to the continuance and scope of the program be worked out by mutual agreement between the Minister of Trabajo, Higiene y Prevision Social and General Dunham .
I am hopeful that the proposed arrangement as outlined above is agreeable to Your Excellency's government and I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the program may be worked out during General Dunham's stay in Bogotá.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
ARTHUR BLISS LANE His Excellency
Señor Doctor don CARLOS LOZANO Y LOZANO, Minister of Foreign Relations of Colombia.

The Colombian Minister of Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

No. S - 134-

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES
Bogotá, febrero 12 de 1944

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Tengo el honor de referirme nuevamente a la nota de Vuestra Excelencia número 285 , de 24 de enero pasado , relativa al asunto de la ampliación de las apropiaciones del Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública.

Consultado el Ministerio de Trabajo, Higiene y Previsión Social, informa que de acuerdo con las conversaciones celebradas con el señor General George C. Dunham, se ha convenido en una ampliación del programa que desarrolla actualmente en Colombia la mencio-

nada entidad, sobre la base de un aporte de seiscientos mil dólares

(US$600.00.00 ) por suma igual por parte del Gobierno colombiano.

Los detalles acerca de la manera como se aportarán tales sumas,

así como algunos otros, han sido contemplados en dicho convenio .

Aprovecho esta oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las

seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración . Por el Ministro,

el Secretario General,

A Su Excelencia

ALFREDO CABALLERO ESCOBAR

el señor ARTHUR BLISS LANE,

Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América Ciudad

2893

2894

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Translation

No. S- 134-

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS Bogotá, February 12, 1944

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to refer again to Your Excellency's Note No. 285, of January 24 last , relating to the matter of the increase in the

appropriations of the Inter-American Cooperative Public Health Service .

The Ministry of Labor, Hygiene and Social Welfare, upon being consulted, states that, according to the conversations held with

General George C. Dunham, an expansion of the program which the aforesaid organization is now carrying on in Colombia has been agreed upon, on the basis of a contribution of six hundred thousand

dollars ($ 600,000.00 U.S. currency) for an equal sum on the part of the Colombian Government .

The details concerning the manner in which these sums will be contributed, as well as certain other details, have been contemplated in the said agreement.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
For the Minister, the Secretary General, ALFREDO CABALLERO ESCOBAR

His Excellency ARTHUR BLISS LANE, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, City

The Executive Vice-President of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs to the Colombian Minister of Labor, Hygiene, and Social Welfare

INSTITUTE OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS OFFICE OF THE COORDINATOR OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS
WASHINGTON, D. C.

Sr. Dr. JORGE ELIECER GAITÁN

Bogotá, January 27, 1944

Ministro de Trabajo , Higiene y Prevision Social E. S. D.

57 Stat. 1310, 1313. Ante, p. 2892.

I have the honor to refer to the communications between His Excellency, the Ambassador of the United States of America in the Republic of Colombia, and His Excellency, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Colombia, both dated October 23 , 1942, and to further communications between the Ambassador and the Minister of Foreign Affairs in January 1944 ; and to the communications between the writer of this letter and His Excellency, the Minister of Labor, Health and Social Welfare, dated October 20, 1942

Jan. 24, Feb. 12, 1944 61 STAT. ] COLOMBIA-HEALTH AND SANITATION- Feb. 14, 19, 1946

2895

and October 23 , 1942 , [ ] respectively, and the writer's communication

to Your Excellency dated December 15 , 1943. ['] These communica-

tions relate to the cooperative program of public health and sanitation

provided for by Resolution XXX, approved at the Third Meeting of

the Ministers of Foreign Affairs held at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in

January 1942. [2]

The Government of the United States of America, as represented

Availability ofadditional U. 8. funds.

by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs , an agency of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, is now prepared to make available an additional sum of money for the purpose of cooperating

with the Ministry of Labor , Health and Social Welfare in extending the cooperative program of public health and sanitation and providing

for the termination of the program within a predetermined period of

time insofar as funds appropriated by the Government of the United States of America are concerned .
It is proposed for consideration by Your Excellency that the Institute of Inter-American Affairs make available an additional sum of

Amount of contributions.

not to exceed $ 600,000 U.S. to be expended over a period of two years beginning July 1 , 1944 and that the Government of the Republic of Colombia contribute a sum in pesos equivalent to $ 600,000 U.S. at the present rate of exchange to be combined with the funds allo-

cated by the Government of the United States of America through the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, and expended over the same

period of time for the cooperative program of public health and sanitation in the Republic of Colombia.
The sums mentioned would be in addition to the $ 1,000,000 U.S.

already allocated by the Government of the United States and the

1,000,000 pesos allocated by the Government of Colombia. It is proposed that the cooperative health and sanitation program

Conditions.

and the expenditure of the funds in connection therewith, as herein-

above referred to , be subject to the following conditions:

Maintenance of the 1. The Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Welfare (hereinafter Servicio.
called the Ministry) and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs shall

continue to maintain the special technical service known as the Ser-

vicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Salud Pública (hereinafter

called the Servicio) which shall function as a separate section within and subordinated to the Ministry. The Director of the Servicio shall

Director.

be responsible to the Minister or his representative for the execution

of the cooperative program of health and sanitation and for doing all

that may be necessary or desirable for the accomplishment of this

purpose. 2. The Institute of Inter-American Affairs (hereinafter referred to as the Institute) which is a corporate instrumentality of the United States Government devoted to the execution of certain of its public purposes

Maintenance offield party of technicians.

and having juridic personality, may continue to maintain in Colombia a field party of technicians to consummate the cooperative program

hereinafter described . The party of technicians shall be of such size

¹ [Not printed.] 2[Department of State Bulletin, Feb. 7, 1942, p. 137.]

2896

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Chief.

as the Institute considers appropriate and shall be under the direction of an official who shall have the title of Chief of Field Party, Health and Sanitation Division , The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, which Chief of Party shall be acceptable to the Minister of Labor, Health and Social Welfare (hereinafter called the Minister) . This official shall be the representative of the Health and Sanitation Division of the Institute in Colombia in connection with the program to be

undertaken in accordance with this agreement. The Government of

Colombia may ask for the withdrawal of the Chief of Party when in its

opinion his performance does not satisfy or interpret the objectives

contained in this agreement, and may ask for a replacement satis-

factory to both parties.

recAtpopro. intment of Di- 3. The Government of Colombia shall appoint as Director of the

Servicio the Chief of Field Party , Health and Sanitation Division, The Institute of Inter-American Affairs. With the approval of the

Projects.

Minister, the Director of the Servicio may delegate his authority to persons employed by the Servicio or members of the Field Party of the Institute in Colombia . 4. The cooperative health and sanitation program in Colombia shall

continue to consist of individual projects. The kind of work and the

specific projects to be undertaken in the execution of this agreement and the allocation of funds therefor shall be agreed upon in writing

by the Minister and by the Chief of Field Party in his capacity as

representative of the Health and Sanitation Division of the Institute

in Colombia and shall be carried out by the Director of the Servicio

in conformity with policies prescribed jointly by the Minister and the

said Chief of Field Party for the Institute. No project will be carried

out without the presentation of studies and definite plans for both

the technical and administrative aspects of the work, and without

the appropriate Resolution of the Ministry authorizing the work to

begin. New and fundamental modifications in the campaigns can

be made only by Resolutions passed as a result of mutual agreement

between the Ministry and the Chief of Field Party as representative of the Institute . Servicio funds shall be disbursed only upon projects

Limitation of program .

previously agreed to in this manner. It is suggested that the cooperative program of health and sanita-
tion be limited to relatively few projects each of which would be of

special interest to the Government of Colombia , in order that definite

results may be obtained, and that such results would be indicative

of the cooperation existing between the Government of Colombia

and the Government of the United States in the important field of health and sanitation.

It is suggested that the work of the Servicio with the new funds be limited to the following activities :
Organization and operation of five model Health Centers Public Health Education

Nutrition in its economic, social and educational aspects Studies and measures for the control of malaria

Organization of maritime, river and aerial sanitation (quarantine service) and the sanitation of ports.

Jan. 24, Feb. 12 , 1944 61 STAT.] COLOMBIA- HEALTH AND SANITATION- Feb. 14, 19, 1946

5. For the purpose of continuing the cooperative health and sanitation program in Colombia, it is proposed for consideration by Your Excellency that the Institute deposit in the Banco de la Republica in

Bogotá (or in such other bank as may be mutually agreed upon by the Minister and the Chief of the Field Party in his capacity as repre-

sentative of the Institute) to the account of the Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Salud Pública the said sum of $ 600,000 U.S. on the following basis :

During July 1944 During July 1945

$300,000 300,000

2897 Deposit offunds.

and that the Government of Colombia deposit in the Banco de la Republica in Bogotá to the account of the Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Salud Pública the sum of 1,050,000 pesos (being

the equivalent of $600,000 U.S. at the present official rate of exchange) on the following basis :

During July 1944 During July 1945

350,000 700, 000

6.

Funds introduced into Colombia by the Institute for the purpose

Exemption offunds from currency con-

of the cooperative program shall be exempt from the taxes , service trols.

charges, investment or deposit requirements and other currency

controls imposed upon the foreign exchange of private persons , and

shall enjoy the most favorable government rate of exchange.

7. Materials

and

equipment

or

other

property

furnished

by

the

Consideration of materials, etc., as cash

Government of Colombia or by the Institute to the Servicio at the payment.

request of its Director shall be considered as a cash payment equal to the cost thereof (including shipping, handling, insurance and other incidentals) if purchased on the current market ; but if not so pur-

chased , it shall be treated as a cash payment in an amount agreed on

in writing by the Minister and Chief of Party in his capacity as representative of the Health and Sanitation Division of the Institute. Interest, if any, earned on deposits of Servicio funds shall not be

Interest on deposits.

credited against the obligations of the parties, but shall be added to Servicio funds.

Withdrawals. 8. The funds deposited by the Government of Colombia for any

particular year or the funds deposited by the Institute for any par-

ticular year to the credit of the Servicio in the designated bank, as

provided in paragraph 5 hereof, are not to be drawn against by the Director of the Servicio until the funds for that year are deposited by both parties as agreed to herein. Funds paid over by either party

Unmatched funds.

and not matched by the other party within sixty days may be re-

turned by the Servicio to the contributor.

9.

All funds deposited , under this and the original agreement, to the

Nonreversion funds.

of

credit of the Servicio in the designated bank and not spent during

the calender year or fiscal year in which deposited , shall continue to be available for the purposes of this program during the existence of this agreement and shall not revert to the Governments of the United States of America or of Colombia. The Minister and Chief of Field

Disposition of remaining funds, etc.

2898

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Party in Colombia shall determine by mutual agreement the disposition and disbursement of any unexpended funds remaining to the credit of the Servicio on the final termination of this agreement,

June 30, 1946.

puSrcuhmasseswitmhhaedled fionr U. S. A.

10. In view of the fact that many purchases of materials and supplies must necessarily be made in the United States of America, the Minister and the Chief of Field Party may agree to withhold from the deposits to be made by the Institute as hereinabove provided an amount estimated to be necessary to pay for the purchases of materials and supplies in the United States of America. Sums so withheld shall be considered as if deposited under the terms of this agreement,

Unexpended funds.

but any of such funds not expended or obligated for materials and supplies for the Servicio at the end of any calender year shall be deposited to the Servicio account.

toAndomminyiosftrSaetrivviceioa. u

11. The Servicio shall enjoy administrative autonomy within the limits of this agreement, and shall have the right to make its own purchases and to execute its own contracts . The deposit , expenditure, audit and accounting of funds in the Servicio account as well as the purchase, inventory, use and sale of all real and personal property for the account of the Servicio, and all other administrative matters, shall be regulated , controlled and conducted by and under such rules, regulations and procedures as shall be mutually agreed upon by the Minister and the Chief of Field Party in his capacity as representative of the Health and Sanitation Division of the Institute . No funds

shall be disbursed from Servicio bank accounts without the signature of the Director of the Servicio , or his delegate .

Accounts itures, etc.

of

expend-

12. The Director of the Servicio shall present to the Minister monthly or at such other intervals as the Minister may desire, a complete account of all its expenditures, financial transactions and obligations. The accounts and books of the Servicio shall be available for audit, whenever it is considered necessary, by either an appropriate agency

of the Government of Colombia or by the Chief of Field Party in his capacity as representative in Colombia of the Division of Health

and Sanitation of the Institute , or his delegate . Any such audit shall be conducted with reference to the standards, rules and procedures

established by or pursuant to the terms of this agreement.

Information; prog- 13. The Director of the Servicio shall furnish the Minister any ress reports.
information which is desired concerning the Servicio or its activities.
Monthly and at such other intervals as the Ministry may desire , the Director shall submit a report to the Minister regarding the progress

of the work of the Servicio and its specific projects .

coDndeitteiornmsionfaetmipolnoyo-f 14. The Minister and the Director of the Servicio by mutual agreement.
ment shall determine the salaries, positions, qualifications and condi-
tions of employment within the Servicio, all in accordance with general policies previously agreed upon between the Minister and the
Chief of Field Party of the Institute in Colombia . All of the appoint-
ees of the Servicio who are to be paid out of the funds provided under

Jan. 24, Feb. 12, 1944 61 STAT. ] COLOMBIA-HEALTH AND SANITATION- Feb. 14, 19, 1946

2899

this new agreement shall be named by the Minister of Labor, Health

and Social Welfare from among persons who , in his opinion , have the necessary qualifications of integrity and competence for the position

in question.

For this purpose and in order to achieve greater success in the work,

the Chief of Field Party may make recommendations with respect

to the hiring and discharge, when justifiable , of employees, in order that they may be studied by the Minister of Labor, Health and Social

Welfare .
Execution of con15. All contracts and agreements relating to the administration of tracts.
the Servicio and to the execution of projects previously agreed upon

between the Minister and the Chief of Party, acting as representative

in Colombia of the Health and Sanitation Division of the Institute,

shall be executed in the name of the Servicio and by its Director,

provided, however, that contracts governing the operation of services

or facilities established by the Servicio, or contracts providing for the

expenditure of more than 3,000.00 pesos should be signed and executed jointly with the Minister.

16. All rights and privileges which are enjoyed by government de-

Rights and privileges of Servicio per-

partments and official agencies of government in Colombia and by sonnel, etc.

the personnel and employees of the same shall accrue to the Servicio

and to all its personnel and employees in its and their official business. Such rights and privileges shall include , for example and not exclu-

sively, free postal, telegraph and telephone service whenever possible, passes on railroads administered by the Government of Colombia and

the right to rebates or preferential tariffs allowed to departments of the Government of Colombia by domestic companies of maritime and river

navigation, rail, auto , and air transportation, telegraph, telephone, etc. and also freedom and immunity from excise, stamp, property , in-

come and any and all other taxes as well as from consular charges and customs duties upon imports for the use of the Servicio , whether im-

ported in the name of the Servicio or in the name of a third person and

contracted for by the Servicio . The activities and contracts of the Servicio shall enjoy the same exemptions and prerogatives as the activities and contracts of the Colombia Government .
The Institute of Inter-American Affairs and its employees shall enjoy Immunities, etc., of Institute and employ
the same rights, privileges , exemptions and immunities as the Servicio ees.

and its employees, with respect to its and their operations which are

related to , and property which is to be used for, the program herein

agreed upon.

17.

All remuneration and expenses, including travelling expenses , of

Expenses party .

of

field

the Field Party shall be paid exclusively from the funds of the Institute

and not by the Servicio and shall not be credited against the funds herein described .

Exemption of U. S. 18. All employees of the Institute who are citizens of the United States personnel from income

of America and are engaged in carrying out the objectives of the co- taxes, etc.

operative health and sanitation program shall be exempt from all in-

come taxes and social security taxes with respect to income on which

2900

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

they are obliged to pay income or social security taxes to the Government of the United States of America and from property taxes on personal property intended for their own use. Said employees who are members of the Field Party shall also be exempt from the payments of customs and import duties on their personal effects and equipment and supplies for their own use ; and from investment and deposit requirements and other foreign exchange controls, on funds brought into Colombia for normal living expenses.
vicOiwonperrospheirpty.of Ser- 19. At the termination of this agreement all real and personal property of the Servicio shall be and remain the property of the Governemnt of Colombia, in accordance with the laws of Colombia.
waNronmaavtaeirilaalbsi.lity of 20. The Institute does not engage to make available any equipment, supplies or materials which are deemed necessary and essential by the Government of the United States of America to any phase of the war effort .
ersD,eeltecg.ation of pow. 21. All rights , powers, privileges or duties conferred by this agreement upon the Minister and upon the Chief of Field Party in his capacity as representative of the Health and Sanitation Division of the Institute, may be delegated to representatives. Such delegation shall be in writing and shall specify either generally or specifically the powers and duties of the said representative . Regardless of the naming of said representatives the Minister and the Director of the Servicio shall have the right to refer any matter directly to one another for discussion and decision .
proCjoecntts,ientcu.ance of 22. The cooperative program of health and sanitation in Colombia was inaugurated under the mentioned exchange of letters between the Institute and the Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Welfare dated October 20 and October 23, 1942 , respectively in which the Institute as an agency of the Government of the United States agreed to make available for the program the sum of $ 1,000,000 U.S. , and the Government of Colombia agreed to contribute the sum of 1,000,000 pesos for the same purpose. The financial commitments made in those letters shall remain in effect. Projects and activities undertaken by the Servicio pursuant to those letters shall continue to be carried out in accordance with the terms of the agreements and understandings entered into between the Minister and the Chief of
Field Party in his capacity as representative in Colombia of the Health and Sanitation Division , Institute of Inter-American Affairs or the Director of the Servicio (or their representatives) except insofar as said agreements and understanding may be later modified by mutual consent of the said Minister and Chief of Party or Director.
The balance of said $ 1,000,000 U.S. made available by the Institute, and of said 1,000,000 pesos made available by the Government of Colombia, pursuant to the commitments made in the letters of October 20 and 23 , 1942 , shall continue to be transferred to the Servicio (in the proportion of one peso for each dollar ) by instalments at intervals and in amounts that will be required for the work of the

61 STAT. ] COLOMBIA-HEALTH AND SANITATION- Jan. 24, Feb. 12, 1944 Feb. 14, 19, 1946

2901

Servicio and in accordance with policies agreed to between the Minister and the said Chief of Party in his capacity as representative in Colombia of the Health and Sanitation Division of the Institute.
23. The Government of Colombia will obtain or endeavor to obtain the legislation , decrees, orders or resolutions necessary to carry out the terms of this agreement.
For the sake of convenience it is proposed that the future operation of the entire cooperative program of health and sanitation in Colombia and the expenditure of the balance of funds provided under the letters of October 20 and October 23 , 1942 , as well as the new funds, shall be governed by the terms of this letter, to the extent that they may be acceptable and agreed to by Your Excellency, and that the said letters of October 20 and October 23 , 1942 be superseded .
I am prepared as Executive Vice- President of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs to consider this letter and Your Excellency's acceptance as constituting in form and effect a completely binding and effective agreement between the Institute of Inter-American Affairs of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs and
the Minister of Labor, Health and Social Welfare of the Republic of Colombia in accordance with the terms contained herein.
Accept, Excellency, the assurance of my highest consideration . GEORGE C. Dunham Executive Vice-President
The Institute of Inter-American Affairs

Legislation, etc.

The Colombian Minister of Labor , Hygiene , and Social Welfare to the Executive Vice-President of the Institute of Inter- American Affairs REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA MINISTERIO DE TRABAJO, HIGIENE, Y PREVISION SOCIAL NUMERO: 02310
BOGOTÁ, 29 de enero de 1944.
Señor General Dr. GEORGE C. DUNHAM Vice-Presidente Ejecutivo del Instituto de Relaciones Interamericanas. E. S. D.
Correspondo a su atenta nota de enero 27 , en la cual el señor General, en representación del Instituto de Relaciones Interamericanas propone a este Ministerio un proyecto de convenio adicional a nuestro actual programa cooperativo de salubridad y saneamiento que se realiza en Colombia por intermedio del Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública.
Debidamente autorizado por el Excelentísimo Señor Presidente de la República y por el señor Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores , tengo el honor de manifestar a Ud . que este Ministerio acepta en todas sus
95347 °-49-PT. III- 40

2902

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

partes el contenido del convenio adicional adjunto, y aprovecha la oprotunidad para significar por su digno conducto, al Instituto de Relaciones Interamericanas y al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, las más expresivas gracias por la contribución que vienen prestando a nuestro país en el desarrollo de campañas sanitarias de gran significación para el pueblo colombiano.
Del señor General muy atentamente, JORGE ELIECER GAITAN Ministro

Translation
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA MINISTRY OF LABOR, HYGIENE , AND SOCIAL WELFARE
NUMBER : 02310

BOGOTÁ, January 29, 1944. General GEORGE C. DUNHAM,
Executive Vice President of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, At His Office

I am replying to your courteous note of January 27, in which, repre-

senting the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, you proposed to this

Ministry a draft agreement supplementing our present cooperative

health and sanitation program which is being carried out in Colombia

Colombian accept-
ance ofsupplementary agreement.

through the Inter-American Cooperative Public Health Service . Duly authorized by His Excellency the President of the Republic
and by the Minister of Foreign Relations, I have the honor to inform

you that this Ministry accepts in its entirety the content of the

annexed supplementary agreement, and avails itself of the opportunity to express, through your good offices, to the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and to the Government of the United States of America

its most sincere thanks for the contribution which they are making

to our country in the development of sanitary programs of great

importance to the Colombian people.

Respectfully yours,

JORGE ELIECER GAITAN

Minister

61 STAT.]

MEXICO-FISHERIES MISSION- Sept. 23, 1946 Oct. 22, 1946

2903

Agreement between the United States of America and Mexico amending and extending the agreement effected by exchanges of communications
dated April 17, May 22, July 22 and 27, and October 24, 1942, respecting a fisheries mission. Effected by exchange of notes signed at México, D. F., September 23 and October 22, 1946; entered into force October 22, 1946.

September 23 and October 22, 1946
T.I.A. S. 1624]

The American Ambassador to the Mexican Secretary for Foreign Relations

No. 414

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Mexico, D.F., September 23, 1946

EXCELLENCY: I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's Note No. 3041 dated

September 7 , 1944 , and to the Ministry's Note No. 560440 dated October 18, 1944 , which exchange of correspondence served to

58 Stat. 1562.

extend for a period of two years or to October 23 , 1946 , the Mem-

orandum Agreement of October 23 , 1942 , regulating the activities

of the United States Fisheries Mission to Mexico . The Embassy has

received from the Department of State a copy of Note No. 4791 [ ']

addressed by the Mexican Embassy in Washington, on July 11 , 1946 ,

to the Department of State, requesting the extension of the Memo-

randum Agreement for an indefinite period . The Embassy has now been instructed by the Department of State
to effect by an exchange of notes between the Embassy and the

Extension of agreement to Oct. 23, 1948.

Ministry the extension of the agreement for another two-year period,

or to October 23 , 1948. The United States Fish and Wild Life

Service of the Department of Interior desires to reserve the privilege

of withdrawing Messrs . Lindner and Smyth for temporary duty

elsewhere. Your Excellency will recall that the present agreement

states, with reference to Mr. Lindner, that "his services will be

rendered on a full-time basis, with the exception of possible assign-

ments of nominal lengths only outside of Mexico ". I am also in-

structed to advise Your Excellency that the commitment to be entered

into by the United States Government, beyond the fiscal year ending

June 30, 1947 , in the extension of the agreement, is subject to the

availability of appropriated funds . May I suggest to Your Excellency

that the eventual agreement of the Mexican Government to the

amendment suggested above providing for the temporary assign-

ments of Messrs . Lindner and Smyth for duty elsewhere , and the extension of the amended agreement for a period of two years or to

October 23, 1948, be effected by the completion of this exchange of

communications between the Embassy and the Ministry.

[Not printed.]

2904

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
WALTER THURSTON
His Excellency DR. FRANCISCO CASTILLO NÁJERA , Secretary for Foreign Relations, Mexico, D.F.
The Mexican Undersecretary for Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador
SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES ESTADOS UNIDOS MEXICANOS MEXICO
MÉXICO , D.F. , 22 de octubre de 1946. SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :
Me es grato referirme a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia número 414, fechada el 23 de septiembre último, para comunicarle la anuencia del Gobierno de México a prolongar el Acuerdo (Memorandum Agreement ) del 23 de octubre de 1942, que regula las actividades de la Misión de Pesca de los Estados Unidos en México , por un período de dos años más , o sea hasta el 23 de octubre de 1948.
La Secretaría de Marina ha tomado nota de la indicación de esa Embajada, en el sentido de que la Secretaría del Interior de los Estados Unidos de América se reserva el derecho de retirar a los señores Lindner y Smyth, durante el período de la prórroga, para confiarles comisiones temporales fuera de México .
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia el testimonio de mi más alta consideración .
MANUEL TELLO. Excelentísimo Señor WALTER THURSTON,
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Ciudad.
Translation
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS UNITED MEXICAN STATES MEXICO
MEXICO, D.F. , October 22, 1946. MR. AMBASSADOR :
I take pleasure in referring to Your Excellency's courteous note No. 414, dated September 23 last, to inform you that the Government of Mexico agrees to the extension of the Memorandum Agreement of October 23 , 1942 , which regulates the activities of the United States Fisheries Mission to Mexico, for an additional period of two years, or until October 23 , 1948 .

61 STAT. ]

Sept. 23, 1946 MEXICO- FISHERIES MISSION-
Oct. 22, 1946

The Navy Department has taken due note of the Embassy's indication that the United States Department of the Interior reserves the right to withdraw Messrs. Lindner and Smyth during the period of the extension, to give them temporary assignments outside Mexico .
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
MANUEL TELLO .
His Excellency WALTER THURSTON, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, City .

2905

. P

61 STAT. ]

GREECE-AID

May 26, 1947

June 15, 18, 20, 1947

2907

Agreement between the United States of America and Greece respecting aid to Greece. Signed at Athens June 20, 1947 ; entered into force June 20, 1947. And notes signed at Athens May 26, June 15 and 18, 1947.

May 26 and June 15, 18, 20, 1947
[T. I. A. S. 1625]

AGREEMENT ON AID  GREECE

 Y      

2908

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

AGREEMENT ON AID TO GREECE
The Government of the Kingdom of Greece having requested the Government of the United States of America for financial , material and technical assistance to avert economic crisis , promote national recovery , and restore internal tranquillity ; and

Authorization to furnish aid.
61 Stat., Pt . 1, p. 103.

The Congress of the United States , in the Act approved May 22 , 1947, having authorized the President of the United States to furnish such assistance to Greece , on terms consonant with the sovereign independence and security of the two countries ; and

Post, p. 2932.

The Government of Greece , in a note to the Government of the United States of June 15 1947

61 STAT.]

May 26, 1947 GREECE- AID- June 15, 18, 20, 1947

2909

     
   .            .      ,          ,           ·
      ,     22  1947  ,                                 ·
    , 

2910

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. having proposed certain measures within Greece which it deems essential to the effective use of United States assistance and of Greece's own resources in promoting reconstruction and recov ery in Greece as soon as possible ; and

59 Stat. 1031.

The Government of the United States and the Government of Greece believing that the furnishing of such assistance will help to achieve the basic objectives of the Charter of the United Nations and will further strengthen the ties of friendship between the American and Greek peoples :
The undersigned , being duly authorized by their respective Governments for that purpose, have agreed as follows :

61 STAT. ]

GREECE - AID-

May 26, 1947

June 15, 18, 20, 1947

  15  1947   

    , 

       

     

       

       

     ·

          

                    -

      

      ·    ,  

          :

2911

2912 U. S. assistance.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. ARTICLE 1
The Government of the United States will ¸ furnish the Government of Greece such assistance as the President of the United States

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 103.

may authorize to be provided in accordance with the Act of Congress approved May 22 , 1947, and any Acts amendatory or supplementary thereto.

Use of assistance by Greece, etc.

ARTICLE 2 The Government of Greece will make effect. ive use of any assistance furnished to Greece by the United States and of Greece's own resources in order to advance reconstruction and

secure recovery in Greece as soon as possible . To this end the Government of Greece has al-

Post, p. 2932.

ready undertaken , and hereby agrees , to effec tuate the measures proposed in its note of June 15 , 1947 to the Government of the United

61 STAT. ]

GREECE- AID-

May 26, 1947

June 15, 18, 20, 1947

 1

2913

   `                              22  1947              .
 2

    

     

      ,  

     ,    .

      

1

    

  .           ,   

  ,     ,  

  15  1947    L

2914

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. States and will take such further action as may be appropriate .

American Mission, Chief.

ARTICLE 3 The Government of the United States will send to Greece a mission to be known as the American Mission for Aid to Greece ( hereinafter referred to as the American Mission ) . The Chief of the American Mission designated by the President of the United States will represent the Government of the United States on matters relating to the assistance furnished under this Agreement .
ARTICLE 4 The Chief of the American Mission will determine , in consultation with representatives of the Government of Greece , the terms and conditions upon which specified assistance shall from time to time be furnished under this

61 STAT. ]

GREECE-AID- May 26, 1947 June 15, 18 , 20, 1947

     

  ,      

   . APOPON 3

     

  `     

      

* (      

  ) .                   *      

     .. APOPON 4

       ,     
  ,           

2915

2916
Advisory assistance, etc.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. Agreement . Under the direction of the Chief , the Mission will provide such advisory assistance and will exercise such functions as are necessary and proper to assist the Government

of Greece to make the most effective use of

any assistance furnished to Greece by the United States and of Greece's own resources

Post, p. 2932.

and thereby to advance reconstruction and secure recovery in Greece as soon as possible . Certain of these functions are contained in the measures proposed by the Government of Greece in its note of June 15 , 1947.

Greek assistance to American Mission.

ARTICLE S The Government of Greece will furnish all practicable assistance to the American Mission to facilitate the performance of its functions , the movement of Mission personnel to , in or

61 STAT. ]

GREECE- AID

May 26, 1947

June 15, 18, 20, 1947

       

 .               

             

            

  ,         ,        

         .          

    15  1947      .
 5       

             ,

       

2917

95347° 49 - PT. III- -41

2918
Privileges and immunities of Mission personnel.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. from Greece , the employment of Greek nationals and residents , the acquisition of facilities and services , and the performance of other activities of the Mission . The personnel of the American Mission and the property of the Mission and of its personnel shall enjoy in Greece the same privileges and immunities as are enjoyed by the personnel of the United States Embassy in Greece and the property of the Embassy and of its personnel .

Observation by members of Mission.
Accounts and records.

ARTICLE 6 The Government of Greece will permit the members of the American Mission to observe freely the utilization of assistance furnished to Greece by the United States . The Government of Greece will maintain such accounts and records ,

61 STAT. ]

GREECE-AID-

May 26, 1947

June 15, 18, 20, 1947

` ,      , 

   

  ,     

 ,         .     

               

      

       

        

 .

APOPON 6

      

           

       .

       

    ,     

2919

2920

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. and will furnish the American Mission such reports and information , as the Mission may request for the performance of its functions and responsibilities .

Assurance of full information.

ARTICLE 7 The Government of Greece and the Government of the United States will cooperate in assuring the peoples of the United States and Greece full information , consistent with the security of the two countries , concerning the assistance furnished to Greece by the United States . To this end--

U. S. press and radio reports.

( 1) Representatives of the press and radio of the United States will be permitted to observe freely and to report fully regarding the utilization of such assistance ; and

61 STAT.]

May 26, 1947 GREECE-AID-
June 15, 18, 20, 1947

    .   ,

       

      .

APOPON 7                          ,         ,  '              .     :
( 1 )                  '          , 

2921

2922 GrPeuebclei. city within

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. (2) The Government of Greece will
afford the American Mission opportunity

for , and will cooperate with it in pro-

viding , full and continuous publicity within Greece , including periodic reports

by the Mission , as to activities under this Agreement and the purpose , source , charac-

ter , scope , amounts , and progress of such assistance .

Provisions for security.

ARTICLE 8 The Government of Greece will make such provisions as may be required by the President of the United States for the security of any article , service , or information received pursuant to this Agreement . It will not transfer , without the consent of the President of the United States , title to or possession of

61 STAT.]

GREECE - AID-

May 26, 1947

June 15, 18, 20, 1947

(2)  '   

     

       

     

* ,                  ,  ,  ,  ,       .

 8

                       ,   

        .    ,          ,       

2923

2924

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. any such article or information nor permit , without such consent , the use of any such article or the use or disclosure of any such information by or to anyone not an officer , employee , or agent of the Government of Greece or for any purpose other than that for which the article or information is furnished .

Restrictions on use of loans, etc.

ARTICLE 9 The Government of Greece will not use any part of the proceeds of any loan , credit , grant , or other form of aid rendered pursuant to this Agreement for the making of any payment on account of the principal or interest on any loan made to it by any other foreign government .

The Government of Greece will not , except with the approval of the Government of the United States , allocate any funds or make available

61 STAT. ]

GREECE-AID- May 26, 1947 June 15, 18, 20, 1947

 ,    ,   

 ,     

      

         ,     

         ,               .
APOPON 9

     

       ,  ,    

             -

           .

     ,      

2925

2926

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat. any foreign exchange for payment of principal or interest on the foreign indebtedness now in suspense of the Government of Greece and of all public and private debtors .

Conditions for withdrawal of assistance.

ARTICLE 10 Any or all assistance authorized to be provided pursuant to this Agreement will be withdrawn--
(1) If requested by the Government of Greece representing a majority of the Greek people ;
(2 ) If the Security Council of the United Nations finds ( with respect to which finding the United States waives the exercise of any veto ) or the General Assembly of the United Nations finds that action taken or assistance furnished by the United Nations

61 STAT. ]

GREECE - AID-

May 26, 1947

June 15, 18, 20, 1947

  ,   

      

            

    .

 10

    

      :

( 1)           .
( 2 ) '     *   (              )                      

2927

2928

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT. make the continuance of assistance by the

Government of the United States pursuant to

this Agreement unnecessary or undesirable ;

(3 ) Under any of the other circumstances

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 105.

specified in section 5 of the aforesaid Act of Congress or if the President of the United States determines that such withdrawal is in

the interest of the United States ; or

Post, p. 2932.

(4 ) If the Government of Greece does not take reasonable steps to effectuate those measures proposed in its note of June 15 , 1947 or subsequently agreed upon which are essential to reconstruction and recovery in Greece.

Effective date; duration .

ARTICLE 11 This Agreement shall take effect as from this day's date . It shall continue in force until a date to be agreed upon by the two Governments .

61 STAT.]

May 26, 1947 GREECE-AID-
June 15, 18, 20, 1947

      

      

    .

( 3)     

      5  

    ,      ·
*     
      
 , 

(4)      

     

     15  1947            

     .  11

          .            .

2929

2930 Registration.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. ARTICLE 12
This Agreement shall be registered with the United Nations .
Done in duplicate , in the English and Greek languages , at Athens , this 20th day of June , 1947.

For the Government of the United States of America : -
Incoh Mordragh Lincoln MacVeagh
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary

For the Government of the Kingdom of Greece : -
eldare
Constantine Tsaldaris Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs

61 STAT. ]

GREECE -AID- May 26, 1947 June 15, 18, 20, 1947  12
       *  .
   ,     `  ,         1947.

        :
Luish Macdsagh  
  

2931

    .  : [2]
     
   

1[Lincoln MacVeagh.] [C Tsaldaris.]

2932

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT

The American Ambassador to the Greek Vice Premier and Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 230

AMERICAN EMBASSY Athens, Greece, May 26, 1947

EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that I have been in-
structed to convey to the Greek Government the following communication from the Government of the United States.

"In response to an appeal by the Greek Government in its Note of March 3, 1947 [1 ] to the Government of the United States, and through it to the American people, for financial, economic, and expert aid to assist the Greek people in restoring their country, the President of the United States on March 12, 1947 requested from the Congress the necessary authority to permit him to extend the help requested .
"The Government of the United States now informs the Greek Government that the President has been authorized to extend

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 103.

assistance to Greece under the provisions of an Act of Congress signed May 22, 1947.
"The Government of the United States will welcome an indication from the Greek Government of its general recovery program and assurances that the proffered assistance will be effectively utilized. This Government will also welcome assurances from the Greek

Government that it is prepared to enter into negotiations leading to a mutually acceptable agreement between the two Governments on the terms under which American aid will be extended . "

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
LINCOLN MACVEAGH
His Excellency CONSTANTINE TSALDARIS
Vice Premier and Minister for Foreign Affairs Athens

The Greek Vice Premier and Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

THE MINISTER FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS

No 29824.

ATHENS, June 15, 1947

YOUR EXCELLENCY :

By your note No 230 of May 26, 1947 you were good enough to inform me that, in response to an appeal by the Greek Government in its note of March 3, 1947 to the Government of the United States

and through it to the American people, for financial, economic and

[Not printed . ]

61 STAT. ]

GREECE -AID-

May 26, 1947

June 15, 18, 20, 1947

2933

expert aid to assist the Greek people in restoring their country, the President of the United States has been authorised to extend assistance to Greece under the provisions of an act of Congress signed May 22, 1947.

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 103.

In reply, I have the honour to request that you be kind enough to convey to the United States Government the following communication from the Greek Government :

The hearts of the Greek people are profoundly touched by this proof of the generosity and goodwill of the American people and of the benevolent interest of a great and friendly nation in the welfare of Greece . The Greek Government on its own behalf and on behalf of

Expression of ap preciation by Greek
Government.

the Greek people, wishes to express its deepest appreciation for this magnanimous response to the request of the Greek Government and

takes this opportunity to repeat that it turned to the United States for aid only because the devastating results of the war were such as to render impossible the enormous task of reconstruction with the resources remaining to Greece after years of conflict and enemy occupation.
The Greek Government wishes to give assurances that any assistance

it may receive will be used in conformance with the purposes for which it may be made available. Aid given for military purposes will be used in the restoration and maintenance of internal order. Aid fur-

nished for the economic recovery and physical reconstruction of the country will be expended in a manner which will have a lasting beneficial effect on the country as a whole.
The Greek Government also wishes to make known at this time its
own plans for action which will lay a basis for American assistance

Greek plans for recovery .

in Greek recovery and reconstruction. The Greek people realize

that ultimate solution of their problem requires great and continuous

effort by themselves. They are aware that the extensive aid of the

United States will not alone be sufficient to meet the large costs of

restoring public order and reconstructing productive facilities over a

period of years. The Greek Government will lead its people in their effort to achieve these ends. This responsibility entails the compos-

ing of internal differences, the collection of more revenues, the rebuild-

ing of foreign trade, the conservation of foreign exchange, the recon-

struction of public works, the improvement of Government adminis-

tration, assistance and guidance to agriculture and industry, estab-

lishment of protective labor measures, encouragement of democratic

organizations among economic and social groups, measures to control

inflation and assure equitable distribution of supplies and services, and the restraint of excesses and extravagances on the part of any segment

of the population . The Greek Government will undertake these and

all other necessary measures to marshal Greece's own resources to the

fullest extent in attaining the ends for which American assistance

may be extended. This organization of Greek effort will require economic contributions and cooperation from all.
The Greek Government is ever mindful that primary responsibility 95347 °-49-- PT. III- -42

2934

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

for the economic welfare of the country rests with the Greek Govern-

ment, and it is therefore proceeding with plans for the early institu-

tion and vigorous administration of those measures which will enable

full use of capital, productive facilities, manpower resources and natural wealth to be found in Greece. Certain measures proposed by the

Greek Government are stated in general terms in this note, these and

Rehabilitation of national revenue
system , etc.

other measures will be developed further after consultation with American advisers.
In order to achieve budgetary balance and economic stability at the earliest possible time the Greek Government will undertake to rehabili-

tate its national and local revenue system by all necessary measures

including the modernization of tax administration, elimination of tax

evasion and the use of every practicable source of revenue. Full

regard will be given to equitable distribution of the tax burden and

to the principle of ability to pay. Measures will be taken to control and curtail expenditures of the Government. The Government audit

Increase of foreign exchange, etc.

and accounting system will be strengthened, and the budget will be published and used as an effective control of expenditures.
With a view to steadily increasing the ratio of official acquisitions of foreign exchange to import requirements, a program will be undertaken to increase the amounts of foreign exchange coming into the

Greek economy through normal commercial channels. Vigorous efforts to increase exports, including the resumption of the export of

olive oil and the rebuilding of foreign markets, will be made. Measures will be adopted to assure the operation of Greek shipping in

a manner which will provide the greatest benefit for the national

economy. Existing regulations on the import and export of foreign exchange will be enforced and strengthened by all possible means.

To make the most effective use of available exchange , imports will be limited to those which are essential to the Greek economy, and they

will be brought in as an integral part of a national import program

mitFtoeree.ign trade com- which includes goods purchased with American aid. The planning and supervising of the administration of the program of public and

Price controls, etc.

private imports and exports will be centralized in a foreign trade committee comprizing Greek and American technicians and headed by an American in the employ of the Greek Government. To guard against further inflation, a vigorous program will be undertaken to hold down prices and to establish an equitable relation between prices

Agricultural and industrial production.

and wages. As further deterrents to inflation, rent control and rationing of commodities will be continued and controls on credit and banking will be instituted.
The agricultural and industrial production of the country will be

increased by Government guidance and financial assistance. Unduly restrictive taxes, detrimental employment practices and monopoly

regulations will be reexamined and all unnecessary deterrents to

production eliminated. To this end the Greek Government will en-

courage increased labor productivity while fostering the right of

workers to organize and join free democratic labor unions and to

61 STAT. ]

May 26, 1947 GREECE-AID- June 15, 18, 20, 1947

2935

engage in activities to promote their mutual protection and economic
status. Improvement of
In order to fill its increasingly active role in guiding the recovery governmental orand reconstruction efforts during the American aid program, the Gov- ganizations, etc.
ernment will undertake an extensive program to improve its govern-

mental organizations and civil service, which were so disrupted by

the long years of war. The Greek Government wishes to take this opportunity to renew
its request to the United States Government for American personnel

Request for assistance of American per
sonnel.

who can assist in the Greek recovery effort, including a special American Mission to administer the extension of American aid, observe its

use by the Greek Government and advise the Greek Government . In

order to expedite recovery in Greece and because of the large financial contribution of the United States to Greece, the Mission should

participate in the development of revenue and expenditure policies , approve Government expenditures for activities which directly or in-

directly involve the use of American aid, take part in the planning of

the import program, and approve the use of foreign exchange. The Greek Government would also wish the Mission to assist in the execu-

tion of reconstruction projects, improvement of public administration, technical training of civil servants and other personnel, continuation

of the health program, development of exports, programming and disposition of Government purchased supplies, promotion of agricultural and industrial recovery, and regulation of wages and prices. In general, the Greek Government will wish to consult with the Mission

before taking any economic steps which might affect the success of the American aid program.

In addition to the members of the Mission who will act as reprsenta-

tives of the United States Government, the Greek Government wishes the assistance of the United States Government in employing a limited number of American experts to act in technical and supervisory capacities within the Greek Government. The Government will continue a currency committee consisting of Greeks and foreign experts with functions modified to fit in with those of the American Mission.

As mentioned above, a Foreign Trade Administration headed by an American technician is also planned.

In the light of the recent legislation by the Congress of the United States and of the views expressed by the United States Government in its Note No. 230 of May 26, 1947, it is suggested that the two Governments should enter into a formal agreement on these matters.

Ante, p. 2932.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
C TSALDARIS
His Excellency MR. LINCOLN MACVEAGH Ambassador of the United States of America Athens

2936 Ante, p. 2932.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The American Ambassador to the Greek Vice Premier and Minister

for Foreign Affairs

No. 296

AMERICAN EMBASSY ATHENS, GREECE June 18, 1947

EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's Note No. 29824 of
June 15, 1947 and, acting on instructions, to convey to the Royal Hellenic Government the following message from the Government of the United States of America :

"The Government of the United States acknowledges the Note of the Greek Government of June 15, 1947, setting forth in general terms the Greek Government's recovery program .
"This Government notes with satisfaction the assurances of the Greek Government that American aid will be effectively utilized in accordance with the purpose for which it is being extended . This Government also welcomes the assurances of the Greek Government
that it is prepared to enter into negotiation leading to a mutually acceptable agreement on the terms under which this aid will be extended and has authorized the American Ambassador in Greece to negotiate such an agreement with the Greek Government."
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
LINCOLN MACVEAGH

His Excellency CONSTANTINE TSALDARIS,
Vice Premier and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Athens.

61 STAT. ] GREECE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAR. 27, 1946

2937

Agreement between the United States of America and Greece respecting air transport services . Signed at Athens March 27, 1946; operative from March 27, 1946; entered into force definitively May 22, 1947.
AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND GREECE

March 27, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1626]

Having in mind the Resolution signed under date of December 7, 1944, at the International Civil Aviation Conference in Chicago, Illinois , [ '] for the adoption of a Standard Form of Agreement for provisional air routes and services, and the desirability of mutually stimulating and promoting the sound economic development of air transportation between the United States and Greece, the two Governments parties to this Agreement agree that the establishment and development of air transport services between their respective territories shall be governed by the following provisions :

ARTICLE 1

The Contracting Parties grant the rights specified in the Annex hereto necessary for establishing the international civil air routes and services therein described , whether such services be inaugurated immediately or at a later date at the option of the Contracting Party to whom the rights are granted .

Rights. Post, p. 2941.

ARTICLE 2

Inauguration of air (a) Each of the air services so described shall be placed in operation services.
as soon as the Contracting Party to whom the rights have been granted
by Article 1 to designate an airline or airlines for the route concerned
has authorized an airline for such route, and the Contracting Party

granting the rights shall, subject to Article 6 hereof, be bound to give

the appropriate operating permission to the airline or airlines con-

cerned ; provided that the airlines so designated may be required to

qualify before the competent aeronautical authorities of the Contract-

ing Party granting the rights under the laws and regulations normally

applied by these authorities before being permitted to engage in the

operations contemplated by this Agreement ; and provided that in areas

of hostilities or of military occupation, or in areas affected thereby,

such inauguration shall be subject to the approval of the competent

military authorities. (b) It is understood that either Contracting Party granted com-
mercial rights under this Agreement should exercise them at the earliest practicable date except in the case of temporary inability to do so.

Exercise of commercial rights.

¹ [International Civil Aviation Conference, Chicago, Illinois, November 1 to December 7, 1944, Final Act and Related Documents, Department of State publication 2282. ]

2938

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT

Charges.

ARTICLE 3
In order to prevent discriminatory practices and to assure equality of treatment, both Contracting Parties agree that :

Post, p. 2941.

(a) Each of the Contracting Parties may impose or permit to be imposed just and reasonable charges for the use of public airports and other facilities under its control . Each of the Contracting Parties agrees, however, that these charges shall not be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services .
(b) Fuel, lubricating oils and spare parts introduced into the territory of one Contracting Party by the other Contracting Party or its nationals , and intended solely for use by aircraft of such other Contracting Party shall be accorded national and most-favored-nation treatment with respect to the imposition of customs duties, inspection fees or other national duties or charges by the Contracting Party whose territory is entered.
(c) The fuel, lubricating oils, spare parts , regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board civil aircraft of the airlines of one
Contracting Party authorized to operate the routes and services described in the Annex shall, upon arriving in or leaving the territory of the other Contracting Party, be exempt from customs , inspection fees or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used or consumed by such aircraft on flights in that territory.

Certificates of air. worthiness, etc.

ARTICLE 4 Certificates of airworthiness, certificates of competency and licenses

issued or rendered valid by one Contracting Party shall be recognized

Post, p. 2941.

as valid by the other Contracting Party for the purpose of operating the routes and services described in the Annex. Each Contracting

Party reserves the right, however, to refuse to recognize, for the pur-

pose of flight above its own territory, certificates of competency and

licenses granted to its own nationals by another state.

Laws and regulations.

ARTICLE 5 (a) The laws and regulations of one Contracting Party relating to the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged in

international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of such aircraft while within its territory , shall be applied to the aircraft

of the other Contracting Party, and shall be complied with by such

aircraft upon entering or departing from or while within the territory of the first party.

(b) The laws and regulations of one Contracting Party as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers , crew, or

cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance,

immigration, passports, customs, and quarantine shall be complied with by or on behalf of such passengers, crew, or cargo of the other

Contracting Party upon entrance into or departure from, or while within the territory of the first party.

61 STAT. ] GREECE--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAR. 27, 1946

2939

ARTICLE 6

Each Contracting Party reserves the right to withhold or revoke a

Withholding or revocation of certificate

certificate or permit to an airline of the other party in any case where or permit.

it is not satisfied that substantial ownership and effective control are

vested in nationals of either party to this Agreement, or in case of

failure of an airline to comply with the laws of the State over which

it operates as described in Article 5 hereof, or to perform its obligations under this Agreement.

ARTICLE 7 This Agreement and all contracts connected therewith shall be registered with the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization.

Registration.

ARTICLE 8
Either Contracting Party may terminate the rights for services granted by it under this Agreement by giving one year's notice to the other Contracting Party.

Termination.

ARTICLE 9 In the event either of the Contracting Parties considers it desirable to modify the routes or conditions set forth in the attached Annex, it

Modification of annex.
Post, p. 2941.

may request consultation between the competent authorities of both

Contracting Parties, such consultation to begin within a period of

sixty days from the date of the request . When these authorities

mutually agree on new or revised conditions affecting the Annex,

their recommendations on the matter will come into effect after they

have been confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes.

ARTICLE 10
Any dispute between the Contracting Parties relating to the interpretation or application of this Agreement or its Annex which cannot be settled through consultation shall be referred for an advisory report to the Interim Council of the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization (in accordance with the provisions of Article III Section 6 (8) of the Interim Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944) or its successor.

Disputes. 59 Stat. 1521.

ARTICLE 11 If a general multilateral air Convention enters into force in relation
to both Contracting Parties, the present Agreement shall be amended so as to conform with the provisions of such Convention.

Amendment.

ARTICLE 12
The provisions of this Agreement shall become operative from the day it is signed. The Greek Government shall notify the Government of the United States of America of the approval of the Agreement by the Greek Parliament, and the Government of the United States of America shall consider the Agreement as becoming definitive upon the date of such notification by the Greek Government.

Entry into force. Post, p. 2942.

2940

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
In witness whereof the undersigned plenipotentiaries, being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present Agreement and have affixed thereto their Seals:
For the Government of the United States of America : -

K. L. Rankin Charge d'Affaires ad interim
For the Government of Greece : -
expendia Constantine Rendis
Minister for Foreign Affairs
Done in duplicate at Athens, this twentyseventh day of March , nineteen hundred and forty- six .

61 STAT. ] GREECE--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAR. 27, 1946

2941

ANNEX TO AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND GREECE

A. Airlines of the United States authorized under the present U. S. rights oftransit and stop in Greece.
Agreement are accorded rights of transit and non-traffic stop in Greek
territory, as well as the right to pick up and discharge international
traffic in passengers , cargo and mail at Athens , on the following route
or routes :

The United States, via intermediate points , to Athens and points beyond; in both directions.
Greek rights of B. Airlines of Greece authorized under the present Agreement are transit and stop in
U.S. accorded in the territory of the United States such rights of transit, non-traffic stop and commercial entry for international traffic in connection with such specific route or routes as may be determined at a later date.
C. In the establishment and operation of the air services covered
by this Agreement and its Annex, the following principles shall apply : (1 ) It is desirable to foster and encourage the widest possible airEtnrcaovuerl.agement 0 distribution of the benefits of air travel for the general good
of mankind at the cheapest rates consistent with sound economic principles ; and to stimulate international air travel as a means of promoting friendly understanding and good will among peoples and insuring as well the many indirect benefits of this new form of transportation to the common welfare of both countries.
(2) The air transport facilities available to the traveling public should bear a close relationship to the requirements of the public for such transport. Equal opportunity
(3) There shall be a fair and equal opportunity for the airlines for operation. of the two nations to operate on any route or routes between their respective territories covered by this Agreement and its Annex .
(4) In the operation by the airlines of either Contracting Party of the trunk services described in the Annex to this Agree-
ment, the interest of the airlines of the other Contracting Party shall be taken into consideration so as not to affect unduly the services which the latter provides on all or part of the same routes .
Provision of ade(5) It is the understanding of both Contracting Parties that quate capacity.
services provided by a designated airline under this Agreement and its Annex shall retain as their primary objective
the provision of capacity adequate to the traffic demands between the country of which such airline is a national and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic . The right to embark or disembark on such services international
traffic destined for and coming from third countries at a
point or points on the routes covered by this Agreement and its Annex shall be applied in accordance with the general

2942

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
principles of orderly development to which both Contracting Parties subscribe and shall be subject to the general principle that capacity should be related : (a) to traffic requirements between the country of origin
and the countries of destination ; (b) to the requirements of through airline operation, and (c) to the traffic requirements of the area through which
the airline passes after taking account of local and regional services.
(6) In so far as the airline or airlines of one Contracting Party may be temporarily prevented through difficulties arising from the War from taking immediate advantage of the opportunity referred to in sub-paragraph (3) above, the situation shall be reviewed between the Contracting Parties with the object of facilitating the necessary development, as soon as the airline or airlines of the first Contracting Party is or are in a position increasingly to make their proper contribution to the service.

The Greek Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Secretary of State

No. 3219/7

ROYAL GREEK EMBASSY

The Charge d'Affaires ad interim of Greece presents his compliments to His Excellency the Secretary of State and has the honor, on instructions from his Government, to inform him that the Air Transport Agreement signed at Athens, March 27th, 1946 , between the United States of America and Greece was ratified by the Greek Parliament, April 19th, 1947, and has been published in the Government Gazette.
The above notification is made in accordance with Article 12, paragraph 2 , of said Agreement. WASHINGTON, D.C.
May 22, 1947

The Secretary of State to the Greek Ambassador

Entry into force. Ante, p. 2939.

The Secretary of State presents his compliments to His Excellency the Ambassador of Greece and has the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the Embassy's note of May 22, 1947 in which notification is given of the approval by the Greek Parliament of the air transport agreement between the United States of America and Greece, signed at Athens on March 27, 1946.

By virtue of that notification, the above-mentioned agreement, pursuant to Article 12 thereof, is considered by this Government as having entered into force definitively on May 22, 1947.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE ,

Washington, June 23, 1947.

BB

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- BRAZILIAN RICE SURPLUSES -DEC. 23, 1946

2943

Agreement between the United States of America, Brazil, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting the purchase of Brazilian rice surpluses , modifying the agreement of December 21 , 1943. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Rio de Janeiro December 23, 1946; entered into force December 23, 1946.

December 23, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1627]

The American Ambassador to the Brazilian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 245.

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Rio de Janeiro December 23, 1946.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency, with reference to the negotiations between the Brazilian authorities and the representatives of the Governments of the United States of America and of the United

Kingdom, in regard to the quota of 10,000 tons of rice reserved by Brazil for sale from the 1945-46 crop to Argentina, French Guiana,

Bolivia, Venezuela , Colombia, Peru , Paraguay, Uruguay and the Dutch

and French West Indies, in accordance with the Agreement in force,

that the Government of the United States of America agrees to the

modification of the Agreement referred to, in the following terms : I. The Governments of Brazil, of the United States of America and of the United Kingdom agree that the quota of 10,000

Increase of salable quota .

metric tons of rice reserved by Brazil in accordance with the Agreement of the 21st December, 1943, for sale to Argen-

60 Stat. 1612.

tina, French Guiana, Bolivia, Peru , Venezuela, Colombia , Paraguay, Uruguay and the Dutch and French West Indies

be increased to 13,000 metric tons, and that this shall be with-

drawn from the crop of 1945-1946 of rice produced in the States of Piauí, Maranhão and Pará.

II. The shipment of rice produced in other States will not be permitted by the Brazilian Government to the countries and possessions specified in paragraph I of this Note.
III. The 3,463 metric tons of rice of the 1945-1946 crop from Southern Brazil destined to some of the countries and possessions specified in paragraph I of this Note and for which export licenses have already been issued, are considered to be additional to the above-mentioned quota.
IV. The Governments of Brazil, of the United States of America and of the United Kingdom agree that the maximum price for rice referred to in paragraph I of this Note shall be the equivalent of Cr$ 150.00 per sack of 60 kilos f.o.b. São Luiz, Parnaiba and Belem in terms of U.S. currency or sterling at

Maximum price.

2944

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Terms of sale.
Information concerning distribution.
Total increase O quota,

the export rate of exchange in force on the 15th August last. Moreover, the sale of this rice will be effected in accordance with the terms of that part of the existing Agreement relating to the quota for the countries and possessions specified in paragraph I of this Note. V. The Brazilian Government undertakes to issue instructions to its representative on the International Emergency Food Council to inform that organization about the distribution of rice made by the Brazilian authorities to the countries and possessions specified above in order that the aforesaid Council may take such distribution into consideration when arranging allocations of rice from all other sources. VI. The quota reserved for the countries and possessions enumerated is thus increased from 10,000 to 16,463 metric tons of rice.

agNroeteemsentc.onstituting 2. This note and the notes of Your Excellency and of the British Ambassador of similar tenor and bearing the same date constitute a formal agreement between the three Governments on this subject.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
WILLIAM D. PAWLEY

His Excellency Dr. RAUL FERNANDES ,
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rio de Janeiro.

The Brazilian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DAS RELAÇÕES EXTERIORES ,

RIO DE JANEIRO.

DE/444/842.16 (22) (42)

Em 23 de Dezembro de 1946.

SENHOR EMBAIXADOR, Tenho a honra de levar ao conhecimento de Vossa Excelência que,
com referência às negociações havidas entre as autoridades brasileiras e os representantes dos Governos dos Estados Unidos da América e do Reino Unido da Grã-Bretanha e Irlanda do Norte, a respeito da quota de 10.000 toneladas de arroz, reservada pelo Brasil, consoante o Acôrdo em vigor, para a venda da safra de 1945-46, à Argentina, Guiana Francêsa, Bolívia, Venezuela , Colômbia, ao Peru, Paraguai , Uruguai e às Índias Ocidentais Holandêsas e Índias Ocidentais Francêsas, o Governo brasileiro concorda com a modificação do aludido Acôrdo nas seguintes bases :

I-Os Governos do Brasil , dos Estados Unidos da América e do Reino Unido concordam em que seja elevada de 10.000

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-BRAZILIAN RICE SURPLUSES- DEC. 23, 1946
toneladas métricas para 13.000 toneladas métricas a quota de arroz reservada pelo Brasil, conforme o Acôrdo de 21 de Dezembro de 1943, para a venda à Argentina, Guiana Francêsa, Bolívia, Venezuela, Colômbia, ao Peru , Paraguai e às Índias Ocidentais Francêsas e Índias Ocidentais Holandêsas. Tal quota deverá ser retirada da safra de 1945-46 e será constituída sòmente de arroz produzido nos Estados do Piaui, Maranhão e Pará.
II-Não será autorizado pelo Governo brasileiro qualquer embarque de arroz, com destino aos países e possessões especificados no item I desta nota , produzido por outros Estados.
III-Consideram- se como adicionais à mencionada quota, 3.463 toneladas métricas de arroz do Sul, da safra de 1945-46, destinadas a alguns dos países e possessões especificados no item I desta nota e para as quais já foram expedidas licenças de exportação.
IV-Os Governos do Brasil, dos Estados Unidos da América e do Reino Unido concordam em que seja fixado para o arroz a que se refere o item I desta nota o preço máximo equivalente a Cr$ 150,00 para o saco de 60 quilos, F.O.B. Sao Luiz, Parnaíba e Belém, em dólares americanos ou libras esterlinas, à taxa de câmbio de exportação vigente a 15 de Agosto último. Outrossim , a venda dêsse arroz se processará na conformidade do que dispõe o Acôrdo existente , na parte referente à quota destinada aos países e às possessões especificados no item I desta Nota.
V-O Governo brasileiro se comprometerá a expedir instruções ao seu representante junto ao Conselho Internacional de Emergência de Alimentação no sentido de que seja aquêle órgão informado sôbre a distribuição de arroz feita pelas autoridades brasileiras aos países e às possessões especificados no item I desta nota, a fim de que o mencionado Conselho possa tomar em consideração tal distribuição , quando fixar quotas de arroz proveniente de tôdas as outras fontes.
VI-Fica, assim, elevada de 10 mil para 16.463 toneladas métricas de arroz a quota reservada aos aludidos países e possessões.
2. Esta nota, a de Vossa Excelência e a da Embaixada da GrãBretanha, de teor semelhante e da mesma data, constituem um ajuste formal entre os três Govêrnos sôbre a matéria.
Aproveito o ensêjo para reiterar a Vossa Excelência os protestos da minha mais alta consideração.
RAUL FERNANDES
A Sua Excelência o Senhor WILLIAM DOUGLAS PAWLEY, Embaixador dos Estados Unidos da América.

2945

2946 60 Stat. 1612

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. Translation

DE/444/842.16 ( 22 ) ( 42)

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS, RIO DE JANEIRO. December 23, 1946.

MR. AMBASSADOR, I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that, with reference
to the negotiations carried on between the Brazilian authorities and the representatives of the Governments of the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , with respect to the quota of 10,000 tons of rice from the 1945-46 crop reserved by Brazil in conformity with the existing Agreement for sale to Argentina, French Guiana, Bolivia, Venezuela , Colombia, Peru, Paraguay, Uruguay, the Netherland West Indies and the French West Indies, the Brazilian Government agrees to a modification of the Agreement in question on the following bases :

I. The Governments of Brazil , the United States of America, and the United Kingdom agree to the increase from 10,000 metric tons to 13,000 metric tons in the quota of rice reserved by Brazil in conformity with the Agreement of December 21 , 1943, for sale to Argentina, French Guiana, Bolivia, Venezuela, Colombia, Peru, Paraguay, the French West Indies and the Netherland West Indies. This quota shall be taken from the crop of 1945-46 and shall consist only of rice produced in the States of Piaui, Maranhão and Pará.
II. No shipment of rice produced by other states shall be authorized by the Brazilian Government to the countries and possessions specified in Item I of this note.
III. The following is considered as an addition to the said quota : 3,463 metric tons of rice from the South, from the crop of 1945-46 , which are intended for certain of the countries and possessions specified in Item I of this note and for which export licenses had been issued.
IV. The Governments of Brazil, the United States of America and the United Kingdom agree that a maximum price be fixed for the rice referred to in item I of this note, equivalent to 150.00 cruzeiros per 60 -kilo bag, F.O.B. São Luiz, Parnaíba and Belém, in American dollars or pounds sterling, at the rate of exchange for export in force on August 15 last. Moreover, the sale of this rice shall be made in conformity with the provisions of the existing Agreement, in the section relative to the quota assigned to the countries and possessions specified in item I of this Note.
V. The Brazilian Government undertakes to issue instructions
to its representatives on the International Emergency Food Council to the end that this agency may be informed of the distribution of rice made by the Brazilian authorities to the countries and possessions specified in item I of this note, in order that the said Council may take such distribution into

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- BRAZILIAN RICE SURPLUSES- DEC. 23, 1946
consideration when it fixes the quotas of rice from all other sources. VI. The quota reserved for the countries and possessions in question is thus raised from 10,000 to 16,463 metric tons of rice.
2. This note, that of Your Excellency and that of the Embassy of Great Britain, of like tenor and of the same date, constitute a formal agreement among the three Governments on this question.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
RAUL FERNANDES
His Excellency WILLIAM DOUGLAS PAWLEY , Ambassador of the United States of America.

2947

The British Ambassador to the Brazilian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 309.

BRITISH EMBASSY, RIO DE JANEIRO.
23rd December, 1946.

MONSIEUR LE MINISTRE, I have the honour to inform Your Excellency, with reference to the
negotiations between the Brazilian authorities and the representatives of His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom and of the Government of the United States of America in regard to the quota of 10,000 tons of rice reserved by Brazil for sale from the 1945-1946 crop to Argentina, French Guiana, Bolivia, Peru , Venezuela, Colombia, Paraguay, Uruguay and the Dutch and French West Indies in accordance with the Agreement in force, that His Majesty's Government agree to a modification of the Agreement referred to in the following terms :-

I. The Governments of Brazil, of the United States of America and of the United Kingdom agree that the quota of 10,000 metric tons of rice reserved by Brazil , in accordance with the Agreement of the 21st December 1943, for sale to Argentina, French Guiana, Bolivia, Peru, Venezuela , Colombia, Paraguay, Uruguay and the Dutch and French West Indies be increased to 13,000 metric tons, and that this shall be withdrawn from the crop of 1945-1946 of rice produced in the States of Piauí, Maranhão and Pará.

II. The shipment of rice produced in other States will not be permitted by the Brazilian Government to the countries and possessions specified in paragraph I of this Note.
III. The 3,463 metric tons of rice of the 1945-1946 crop from Southern Brazil destined to some of the countries and possessions specified in paragraph I of this Note and for

60 Stat. 1612.

2948

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

which export licences have already been issued , are considered to be additional to the above-mentioned quota. IV. The Governments of Brazil, of the United States of America and of the United Kingdom agree that the maximum price for rice referred to in paragraph I of this Note shall be the equivalent of Cr$150.00 per sack of 60 kilos f.o.b. São Luiz, Parnaíba and Belém in terms of U. S. currency or sterling at the export rate of exchange in force on the 15th August last. Moreover, the sale of this rice will be effected in accordance with the terms of that part of the existing Agreement relating to the quota for the countries and possessions specified in paragraph I of this Note. V. The Brazilian Government undertakes to issue instructions to its representative on the International Emergency Food Council to inform that organization about the distribution of rice made by the Brazilian authorities to the countries and possessions specified in paragraph I of this Note in order that the aforesaid Council may take such distribution into consideration when arranging allocations of rice from all other sources.
VI. The quota reserved for the countries and possessions enumerated is thus increased from 10,000 to 16,463 metric tons of rice.

2. This Note and the Notes of Your Excellency and of the United States Ambassador of similar tenor and bearing the same date constitute a formal agreement between the three Governments on this subject.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurance of my highest consideration.
D. ST. CLAIR GAINER.
His Excellency Dr. RAUL FERNANDES, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rio de Janeiro.

I certify this to be a true copy.

ARTHUR KING

[ British Embassy Seal]

Minister (Commercial )

61 STAT.]

CANADA- PATENT RIGHTS- SEPT. 3, 27, 1946

2949

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting patent rights in connection with RDX and other explosives. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington September 3 and 27, 1946; entered into force September 27, 1946.

September 3 and 27, 1946
[T. I. A. S. 1628]

The Acting Secretary of State to the Canadian Chargé d'Affaires ad interim DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON September 3, 1946
SIR : I refer to recent communications and discussions, with particular
reference to two letters, one dated August 3 , 1945, ['] from Dr. Vannevar Bush, Director of the Office of Scientific Research and Development , United States of America, to Dr. C. J. Mackenzie, President of The Honorary Advisory Council for Scientific and Industrial Research of Canada, the other, dated August 22 , 1945, ['] from Dr. Mackenzie to Dr. Bush, relating to the conclusion of an agreement between our two governments for the mutual interchange of patent rights in connection with RDX and other explosives . I now inform you that the Government of the United States is prepared to give effect to an agreement upon this subject in the following terms :

Terms ofagreement.

"WHEREAS, the Government of the United States of America through the Director of the Office of Scientific Research and Development, Office for Emergency Management, Executive Office of the President, and the Government of Canada, through the President of The Honorary Advisory Council for Scientific and Industrial Research of Canada, have undertaken the joint development of Explosive Compounds useful in the Allied War Effort ; and
"WHEREAS, the inventions identified in the attached Schedule A were made under the auspices of the Office of Scientific Research and Development and the Government of the United States of America has the right to grant certain licenses thereunder ; and
"WHEREAS , the inventions identified in the attached schedule B were made under the auspices of The Honorary Advisory Council for Scientific and Industrial Research of Canada and the Government of Canada has the right to grant certain licenses thereunder ; and
"WHEREAS, the Governments of the respective countries desire to exchange rights thereunder ;
"Now, THEREFORE , each Government grants to the other a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to have the inventions identified

"[Not printed . ] 95347°-49-- PT. III- 43

2950

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
in the Schedules A and B attached hereto used or manufactured by or for the Governments of the respective countries , said license to extend throughout the world.
"It is further agreed that the Schedules A and B attached hereto may be supplemented from time to time as further inventions are made and agreed upon by the contracting parties to be a part of the joint development undertaken by the respective Governments."
If an agreement in accordance with the foregoing terms is acceptable to the Government of Canada, the agreement shall be considered by the Government of the United States to have been concluded and to be in effect as of the date of a corresponding note from you indicating that the Government of Canada is prepared to accept the agreement.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration. WILLIAM L. CLAYTON Acting Secretary of State
Attachments : Schedules A and B.
Mr. THOMAS A. STONE, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of Canada.

UStnaitteesd S.Neor.
04, 9758 0,47959 04, 9850 04, 9851 40, 9853 4,09854 04, 985 04, 9856 5,37212 85, 7004 85, 7007 85, 0750 85, 0760 85, 0790 85, 170 85, 0780 85, 1710

Filing Date

1J69u4l3y 1J6uly 1J6uly 1J69u4l3y 1J69u4l3y 1J6uly 1J6uly 1J6uly 4Jan. 3D190e4c4. 3D0ec. 3D0ec. 3De0c. 3De0c. 3D1e09c4.4 3D1e90c4.4 3D19e04c4.

1943 1943
1943 1943 1943 1945
1944 1944 1944 1944

Canadian NS. eor.
64, 8992 5,41565 95, 2510 45, 1564 95, 2419 95, 2418

Filing Date

1M9a4y2 1J9uly 2J1a9n4.5 1J9uly 2Jan. 2Jan.

1944
1944 1945 1945

Canadian S.Neor.
75, 1957 75, 1958 57, 1959 5,11896 8,51957 85, 1958 5,31464 5,31465 5,01870 5,72950 75, 2953 75, 9215 75, 2952 5,72957 5,7295 75, 2956 57, 2954

Filing Date
2J17u94n4e 2J197u4n4e 2J7une 1944 J12uly 1944 J3uly 1944 J3uly 1944 J15uly 1944 J1u5ly 1944 A4ug. 1944 A21p09r4i5l 21Ap09r4i5l 1A2p90r4i5l 21Ap90r4i5l 2A1p90r4i5l 12Ap90r4i5l 2A1p09r4i5l 1A2p90r4i5l

SUtnaitteesd S.Neor.
42, 454 04, 8925 5,87102 5,76004 5,87103 5,87104 5,36530

Filing Date

2M139a4y2 J16uly 3D0ec. 2O1c79t4.4 3D0ec. 3De0c. 2O1c59t4.4

1943 1944
1944 1944

SAAoLIBtUaCfthicnmgenaaechtiertdntetrewaenrdeiesdscudcmeeahlaenaenntge

Inventors
Bachmann Bachmann Bachmann
JBM,&locohCmnrqsouoninset Hull
G&Buretnotnher KM,&LiaoscntgDioaukgowaslky WK,M&EiyeaslcttDiemoaruakgnoawslky
JBS,&ecaonctnhtemrann FB&ileodmoqrueikst
B,F&Rilyeoadmnoqrueikst FB&ileodmoqrueikst FB&ileodmoqrueikst Turk Fischer K&MicnGcialild Cason
SCBoLIABtUatficnhmgeanactheiertdnteetrewaenrdeiesdscudcmeaehlaenaenntge

Inventors

S&Rcohsisessler
W&irnikglhetr WC&rhiugthet CW&rhiugthet CW&rhiugthet Weatlright

W,R&Drioicwghnhmitonngd

2951

CANADA- PATENT RIGHTS- SEPT. 3, 27, 1946

61 STAT. ]

2952 Entry into force.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Canadian Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

CANADIAN EMBASSY AMBASSADE DU CANADA

No. 345

WASHINGTON, D.C. , September 27, 1946.

SIR, I have the honour to refer to your note of September 3, 1946 , pro-
posing an Agreement which the Government of the United States of America is prepared to make with the Government of Canada for the mutual interchange of patent rights in connection with RDX and other explosives.
Under instructions from my Government I have the honour to inform you in reply that the Canadian Government undertakes to give effect to the Agreement set forth in your note and understands that the Agreement will come into force as of the date of this note, namely, September 27th, 1946 .
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration. LB PEARSON

The Honourable WILLIAM L. CLAYTON, Acting Secretary of State for the United States of America, Washington, D.C.

61 STAT. ]

TURKEY-AID-JULY 12, 1947

2953

Agreement between the United States of America and Turkey respecting aid to Turkey. Signed at Ankara July 12, 1947; entered into force July 12, 1947.

July 12, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1629]

AGREEMENT ON AID TO TURKEY

The Government of Turkey having requested the Government of

the United States for assistance which will enable Turkey to

strengthen the security forces which Turkey requires for the protec-

tion of her freedom and independence and at the same time to continue to maintain the stability of her economy ; and
The Congress of the United States, in the Act approved May 22, 1947, having authorized the President of the United States to furnish

Authority tofurnish
assistance. 61 Stat., Pt.1 , p . 103.

such assistance to Turkey, on terms consonant with the sovereign independence and security of the two countries ; and
The Government of the United States and the Government of

Turkey believing that the furnishing of such assistance will help to achieve the basic objectives of the Charter of the United Nations and by inaugurating an auspicious chapter in their relations will

59 Stat. 1031.

further strengthen the ties of friendship between the American and Turkish peoples ;

The undersigned , being duly authorized by their respective govern-

ments for that purpose, have agreed as follows :

Article I

The Government of the United States will furnish the Government of Turkey such assistance as the President of the United States may authorize to be provided in accordance with the Act of Congress approved May 22, 1947, and any acts amendatory or supplementary thereto. The Government of Turkey will make effective use of any such assistance in accordance with the provisions of this agreement .

61 Stat., Pt.1 , p.103.

Article II
The Chief of Mission to Turkey designated by the President of the United States for the purpose will represent the Government of the United States on matters relating to the assistance furnished under this agreement. The Chief of Mission will determine, in consultation with representatives of the Government of Turkey, the terms and conditions upon which specified assistance shall from time to time be furnished under this agreement, except that the financial terms upon which specified assistance shall be furnished shall be determined from time to time in advance by agreement of the two governments. The Chief of Mission will furnish the Government of Turkey such information and technical assistance as may be ap-

Chief of Mission.

2954

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
propriate to help in achieving the objectives of the assistance furnished under this agreement.
The Government of Turkey will make use of the assistance furnished for the purposes for which it has been accorded. In order to permit the Chief of Mission to fulfill freely his functions in the exercise of his responsibilities, it will furnish him as well as his representatives every facility and every assistance which he may request in the way of reports, information and observation concerning the utilization and progress of assistance furnished.

Article III

Assurance of full information .

The Government of Turkey and the Government of the United

States will cooperate in assuring the peoples of the United States.

and Turkey full information concerning the assistance furnished pursuant to this agreement. To this end , in so far as may be consistent with the security of the two countries :

(1 ) Representatives of the Press and Radio of the United States

will be permitted to observe freely and to report fully regarding the utilization of such assistance ; and

(2 ) The Government of Turkey will give full and continuous

publicity within Turkey as to the purpose, source , character, scope, amounts, and progress of such assistance.

Article IV

Security measures.

Determined and equally interested to assure the security of any article, service , or information received by the Government of Turkey pursuant to this agreement, the Governments of the United States
and Turkey will respectively take after consultation , such measures as the other government may judge necessary for this purpose. The Government of Turkey will not transfer, without the consent of the Government of the United States, title to or possession of any such article or information nor permit, without such consent, the use of any such article or the use or disclosure of any such information by or to anyone not an officer, employee, or agent of the Government of Turkey or for any purpose other than that for which the article or information is furnished.

Article V

Restriction on use of aid for payment of

The Government of Turkey will not use any part of the proceeds of

loans .

any loan, credit, grant, or other form of aid rendered pursuant to this

agreement for the making of any payment on account of the principal or interest on any loan made to it by any other foreign government.

Article VI

Conditions for withdrawal of aid.

Any or all assistance authorized to be provided pursuant to this

agreement will be withdrawn :

(1) If requested by the Government of Turkey ;

61 STAT.]

TURKEY-AID- JULY 12, 1947

2955

(2 ) If the Security Council of the United Nations finds ( with respect to which finding the United States waives the exercise of any veto) or the General Assembly of the United Nations finds that action taken or assistance furnished by the United Nations makes the continuance of assistance by the Government of the United States pursuant to this agreement unnecessary or undesirable ; and
(3) Under any of the other circumstances specified in section 5 of the aforesaid Act of Congress or if the President of the United States determines that such withdrawal is in the interest of the United States.
Article VII

61 Stat. , Pt . 1 , p.105.

This agreement shall take effect as from this day's date. It shall continue in force until a date to be agreed upon by the two govern ments.

Effective date;duration.

Article VIII

This agreement shall be registered with the United Nations.

Done in duplicate, in the English and Turkish languages, at Ankara , this 12th day of July, 1947.
EDWIN C. WILSON
For the Government of the United States

For the Government of the Republic of Turkey HASAN SAKA

[ SEAL]

[ SEAL ]

Registration .

2956

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

TÜRKYE'YE YAPILACAK YARDIM HAKKINDA
ANLAMA
Türkiye Hükümeti , Türkiye'nin hürriyetini ve baimsizliini korumak için ihtiyaci olan güvenlik kuvvetlerinin takviyesini temin ve ayni zamanda ekonomisinin istikrarini muhafazaya devam maksadiyle Birleik Devletler Hükümetinin yardimini istediinden ; ve
Birleik Devletler Kongresi , 22 Mayis 1947 de tasdik edilen Kanun ile , Birleik Devletler Bakanina , Türkiye'ye her iki memleketin egemen baimsizliina ve güvenliine uygun artlar dairesinde , böyle bir yardimda bulunmak yetkisini verdiinden ; ve
Birleik Devletler Hükümeti ile Türkiye Hükümeti böyle bir yardim yapilmasinin Birlemi Milletler Andlamasinin esas gayelerine ulamayi salayacai gibi münasebet · lerinde hayirli bir devre açarak Amerikan ve Türk milletleri arasindaki dostluk balarini daha çok takviye edeceine kani bulunduklarindan ;
Bu maksadla kendi Hükümetleri tarafindan usulü daire sinde verilmi yetkileri haiz olan ve aaida imzasi bulunan zevat u hususlari kararlatirmilardir :
Madde 1. ...... .

61 STAT.]

TURKEY-AID-JULY 12, 1947 Madde 1

Birleik Devletler Hükümeti , Birleik Devletler Bakaninin 22 Mayis 1947 tarihinde tasdik edilen Kongre kanunu ve bunu deitiren veya buna ek kanunlar hüküm leri gereince yapilmasina müsaade edebilecei yardimi Türkiye Hükümetine salayacaktir . Türkiye Hükümeti bu kabil herhangi bir yardimi , bu Anlama hikimleri gereince fiilen kullanacaktir .

Madde 2
Birleik Devletler Bakani tarafindan bu maksadla tayin edilen bir Türkiye Misyonu efi bu Anlama gereince salanacak yardima müteallik meselelerde Birleik Devletler Hükümetini temsil edecektir . Misyon efi bu Anlama gereince peyderpey yapilacak olan muayyen yardimin kayit ve artlarini Türkiye Hükümeti temsilcileriyle daniarak tesbit edecektir · Ancak, yapilacak olan bu muayyen yardimin malî artlari , peyderpey , iki Hikûmetin mutabakati ile, evvelden tesbit edilecektir . Misyon efi , Türkiye Hükümetine, bu Anlama gereince salanan yardimin gayelerinin elde edilmesine yarayabilecek malumati ve teknik yardimi salayacaktir .
Türkiye Hükümeti yapilan yardimi tahsis edilmi bulunduu gayeler urunda kullanacaktir · Sorumluluklarinin icrasi sirasinda görevini serbestçe yapabilmesini mümkün kilmak için , ibu Hükümet , Misyon efine ve temsilcilerine , yapilan yardimin kullanilii ve ilerleyii hakkinda , rapor, malûmat ve müahede eklinde isteyebilecei her türlü kolaylik ve yardimi salayacaktir .

Madde 3 .....

2957

2958

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
Madde 3
Birleik Devletler Hükümeti ile Türkiye Hükümeti Birleik Devletler ve Türk milletlerine bu Anlama gereince yapilan yardim hususunda tam bilgi temini için ibirlii yapacaklardir .
Bu maksadla ve iki memleketin güvenlii ile kabili telif olduu nisbette :
1 - Birleik Devletler basin ve radyo temsilcilerine , bu yardimin kullaniliini serbestçe müahede etmelerine ve bu müahedelerini tam olarak bildirmelerine müsaade edilecektir ; ve
2 · Turkiye Hükümeti bu yardimin amaci , kaynai , mahiyeti , genilii , mikdari ve ilerleyii hakkinda Türkiye '. de tam ve devamli yayin yapacaktir ·
Madde 4
bu Anlama gereince Türkiye Hükümeti tarafindan elde edilen her madde , hizmet veya malumatin emniyetini salamak azminde bulunan ve bunda ayni derecede menfaattar olan Birleik Devletler ve Türkiye Hükümetleri , badelmüavere , bu uurda dier Hükümetin lüzumlu addedebilecei tedbirleri , karilikli olarak , alacaklardir .
Türkiye Hükümeti , Birleik Devletler Hükümetinin muvafakati olmadan , bu neviden hiç bir madde veya malûmatin mülkiyet veya zilyetliini devir etmeyecei gibi , ayni muvafakat olmadan Türkiye Hükümetinin subay , memur veya ajani sifatini haiz bulunmayan bir kimse tarafindan bu maddelerin veya malûmatin kullanilmasina veya bu malûmatin bu sifati haiz
olmayan ....

61 STAT.]

TURKEY-AID- JULY 12, 1947

olmayan bir kimseye açiklanmasina ve bu maddeler ve malûmatin verildikleri gayeden baka bir gayede kullanilmasina müsaade etmeyecektir ·

Madde 5
Türkiye Hükümeti bu Anlama gereince verilen her hangi bir ikraz , kredi , hibe veya dier ekillerdeki yar dimlarin hasilatinin hiç bir kismini dier herhangi yabanci bir devlet tarafindan kendisine verilmi olan herhangi bir ikrazin resülmal veya faizinin tediyesinde kullanmayacaktir .

Madde 6
Bu Anlama gereince yapilmasina müsaade olunan yardim kismen veya tamamen :
1 · Turkiye Hükümeti talep ederse ; 2- Birlemi Milletler Güvenlik Konseyinin ( bu hususta Birleik Devletler herhangi bir vetonun kullanilmasini nazari itibara almiyacaktir ) veya Birlemi Milletler Genel Kurulunun , Birlemi Milletler tarafindan alinan tedbir veya yapilan yardim neticesinde , bu Anlama mucibince Birleik Devletler Hükümeti tarafindan yapilan yardimin devamini lüzumsuz veya gayri matlup addetmesi halinde ; ve 3 - Yukarida anilan Kongre kanununun 5 - inci bölü münde musarrah dier herhangi bir vaziyette veya Birleik Devletler Bakaninin yardimin kesilmesini Birleik Devletlerin menfaatlerine uygun görmesi halinde , nihayet bulacaktir .
Madde 7 ....

2959

2960

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. Madde 7
Bu Anlama bu günden itibaren yürürlüe girecek ve her iki Hükümet tarafindan tesbit edilecek tarihe kadar yürürlükte kalacaktir .

Madde 8

Bu Anlama Birlemi Milletler nezdinde tescil edilecektir .
ngiliz ve türk dillerinde , iki nüsha olarak , Ankara'da On ki Temmuz Bin Dokuz Yüz Kirk Yedi tarihinde yapilmitir ·

Birleik Devletler Hükümeti adina

Türkiye Cumhuriyeti Hükümeti adina

MountWhen

Glasay AbfaceySaday

61 STAT. ] PERU-HEALTH AND SANITATION- APR. 16, 19, 1947

2961

Agreement between the United States of America and Peru respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Peru, supplementing and amending the agreement of May 11 , 1942, as extended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Lima April 16 and 19, 1947 ; entered into force April 19, 1947.

April 16 and 19, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1630]

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

N°. (D)-6-3/35

LIMA, 16 de Abril de 1947

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR : Tengo a honra poner en conocimiento de Vuestra Excelencia que
por Resolución Suprema Número 32 , de 16 de Marzo último , se aprobó el Proyecto de Convenio Suplementario para la Extensión del Programa Cooperativo de Salud Pública, a cargo del Ministerio de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social y del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, cuyo texto es el siguiente :

"Este Convenio Suplementario acordado entre el doctor Alberto Hurtado , Ministro de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social, en representación del Gobierno del Perú (en adelante designado como el "Ministro") y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos , una agencia incorporada del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América (en adelante designado como el "Instituto" ) representado por el doctor Ernest B. Howard, Representante Especial del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, se celebra con el propósito de introducir ciertas modificaciones en el programa cooperativo de Salud y Salubridad establecido por virtud de un intercambio de notas entre Su Excelencia, David Dasso , Ministro de Hacienda y Comercio del Perú y Su Excelencia, Summer Welles, Sub-Secretario de Estado de los Estados Unidos de América , en Mayo de 1942 , y comunicaciones posteriores cambiadas entre el Instituto y el Ministro durante Julio y Octubre de 1942 y confirmadas por Resoluciones Supremas N° 1895a de Julio 14 , 1942 y No. 2947a. de Octubre 31 , 1942 , (en adelante designado como el "Contrato Básico ) . El Contrato Básico se extendió hasta el 30 de Junio de 1947 , por medio de un intercambio de Notas, confirmado por Resolución Suprema Nº . 248 de Marzo 17 , 1944 (en adelante designado como el "Contrato de Extensión" ) con fecha de Marzo de 1944 , entre el Ministro de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social del Perú y el Vice-Presidente Ejecutivo del Instituto .

CLAUSULA PRIMERA.

"Las Partes Contratantes mutuamente proponen, convienen y declaran que el Contrato Básico , en su forma extendida, sea suplementado , por lo cual, por este convenio , queda suplementado y, además, modificado, de acuerdo con las claúsulas que se detallan más abajo.

2962

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

CLAUSULA SEGUNDA.

"Un grupo de oficiales y técnicos conocidos como la "Misión de la

División de Salud y Salubridad del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos en el Perú" seguirá representando al Instituto en el Perú y este grupo de oficiales y técnicos permanecerá bajo la dirección inmediata de un oficial del Instituto conocido como el "Jefe de la Misión". El Jefe de la Misión continuará actuando como el Director del Servicio

Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública (en adelante designado como el "Servicio " ) durante el período comprendido por este Convenio

Suplementario .

CLAUSULA Tercera.

"El Párrafo 3 del Contrato de Extensión queda por éste enmendado, siendo el deseo y propósito de las Partes Contratantes que el Programa Amazónico se extienda y continúe dentro de la administración del programa cooperativo de Salud y Salubridad , bajo la dirección del Servicio , durante y después del 31 de Diciembre de 1946 y, por lo tanto, las Partes Contratantes convienen en que el Programa Amazónico queda extendido y continuará en operación bajo la dirección del Servicio desde el 1º. de Enero de 1947 hasta el 30 de Junio de 1947 inclusive .
CLAUSULA CUARTA.

"Con el fin de ser aplicados en los gastos de mantenimiento y operación del Programa Amazónico , durante el período comprendido por este Convenio , las Partes Contratantes convienen contribuir con fondos durante este período de tiempo en la forma siguiente :

"a) El Instituto contribuirá con una suma que no excederá de Veinte Mil Dólares ($ .20.000 ) y depositará esa suma a la cuenta del Servicio el 31 de Enero de 1947 o antes de esa fecha.

"b) El Instituto puede retener de los depósitos mencionados en la Cláusula IV (a) las sumas que el Ministro y el Jefe de la Misión estimen necesarias para el pago de las compras hechas en los Estados Unidos de América , de materiales, abastecimientos y equipo y otros gastos relacionados con la operación del Programa Amazónico. Cualquiera de los fondos así retenidos por el Instituto se considerarán como depositados bajo los términos de la Claúsula

IV (a) , pero si no son gastados o comprometidos para tales propósitos , se depositarán en la cuenta del Servicio para el Programa Amazónico , en cualquier tiempo , bajo acuerdo mutuo del Ministro y el Jefe de la Misión. "c) El Gobierno del Perú depositará en la cuenta del Servicio el equivalente, en moneda Peruana, de Ciento Cuarentiseis Mil

Quinientos Dólares ($. 146.500 ) moneda de Estados Unidos , al tipo de cambio de 6.50 Soles por cada Dolar de Estados Unidos, en la forma siguiente:

En o antes del 31 de Enero de 1947 En o antes del 30 de Abril de 1947

$. 73. 250. $. 73.250.

Total:

$. 146. 500.

61 STAT. ] PERU HEALTH AND SANITATION-APR. 16, 19, 1947
"d) Por convenio escrito entre el Ministro y el Jefe de la Misión , el plan de depósitos , según Cláusulas IV (a) y ( c) puede ser enmendado de acuerdo con las necesidades del Programa Amazónico . "e) Los fondos abonados a la cuenta del Servicio conforme a las Cláusulas IV (a) y (c) no tienen que ser depositados en una cuenta especial, pero pueden ser depositados en la cuenta general del Servicio y, si el Ministro y el Jefe de la Misión determinan, en cualquier tiempo , que los fondos que han de ser depositados conforme a dichas Cláusulas IV (a) y (c ) exceden la suma necesaria para financiar los gastos calculados del Programa Amazónico, durante el período cubierto por este Convenio Suplementario, entonces la suma sobrante se puede emplear para cualquier otro propósito del programa cooperativo , bajo acuerdo mutuo entre el Ministro y el Jefe de la Misión. "f) El Servicio puede recibir contribuciones de cualquier fuente, además de las mencionadas en las Cláusulas IV (a) y (c) y estas contribuciones las puede gastar el Servicio, en la misma forma que otros fondos, para los usos y propósitos del programa cooperativo de Salud y Salubridad, con tal que el recibo de tales contribuciones adicionales por el Servicio sea de acuerdo mutuo escrito anticipadamente entre el Ministro y el Jefe de la Misión. "g) Cualquiera de los fondos y otra propiedad adquirida por el Servicio que queden sin gastar, sin usar y no comprometidos al terminarse el período comprendido por este Convenio Suplementario, permanecerán como propiedad del Gobierno del Perú y continuarán siendo utilizados para los propósitos del programa cooperativo en una manera acordada mutuamente por escrito entre el Ministro y el Jefe de la Misión.
CLAUSULA QUINTA.
"El Contrato Básico , en su forma extendida queda además modificado con la inclusión del párrafo que sigue :
"Los miembros que integran la Misión de Salud y Salubridad del Instituto no estarán obligados a pagar en el Perú ningún impuesto directo, seguro social ni cesantía, en el caso de que estén sujetos al pago de dichos impuestos en los Estados Unidos de América. El Gobierno del Perú permitirá la entrada libre ó en su defecto pagará los derechos correspondientes sobre material y equipo necesario para el uso profesional del personal de la Misión . Igualmente, el Gobierno del Perú permitirá la entrada libre ó abonará los derechos correspondientes sobre los efectos personales de los miembros de la Misión , de acuerdo con las condiciones limitativas a que están sujetos los miembros del Cuerpo Diplomático acreditado ante el Gobierno del Perú ; para los fines de este Convenio, los miembros de la Misión estarán considerados como Primeros Secretarios del Servicio Diplomático en lo que se refiere a franquicias.

2963

2964

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
CLAUSULA SEXTA. "El Contrato Básico y el Contrato de Extensión antes mencionados, quedarán en completa vigencia y por tanto subsiste el compromiso del Gobierno Peruano para abonar las armadas correspondientes a Enero y Abril de 1947 de Diez Mil Setecientos Veinticinco Dólares ($ .10.725 ) cada una , al tipo de cambio de Soles 6.50 por Dolar, excepto como han sido modificados por este Convenio Suplementario ó por ser contradictorios al mismo .
CLAUSULA SEPTIMA.

"Este Convenio Suplementario tendrá el efecto de un Convenio formal comprometiendo completamente a las Partes Contratantes y quedará vigente desde el primer día de Enero de 1947 , tan pronto como se hayan cambiado Notas Diplomáticas , confirmando y aprobando los términos de este Convenio Suplementario entre el Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto del Gobierno del Perú y la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América en el Perú.

"En Fé De Lo Cual, las Partes Contratantes han hecho ejecutar este Convenio Suplementario por sus representantes debidamente autorizados , en duplicado en los idiomas inglés y castellano , en Lima, Perú, a 27 de Marzo de 1947 .

MINISTERIO DE SALUD PUBLICA Y ASISTENCIA SOCIAL

EL INSTITUTO DE ASUNTOS INTERAMERICANOS

Firmado: ALBERTO HURTADO . Ministro.

Firmado : ERNEST B. HOWARD . Representante Especial

Si Vuestra Excelencia lo encuentra conforme, esta Nota , junto con la respuesta que merezca , podrían ser consideradas como el cumplimiento de lo preceptuado en la Cláusula Séptima de este Convenio Suplementario , quedando así confirmados y aprobados los términos del Convenio .

Aprovecho esta oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
E. GARCÍA SAYAN

Su Excelencia, Señor PRENTICE COOPER,

Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Ciudad

Translation MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND WORSHIP

No. (D)-6-3/35 MR. AMBASSADOR :

LIMA, April 16, 1947

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that, by Supreme

Resolution No. 32 of March 16 , last, there was approved the draft

of the Supplementary Agreement for the Extension of the Cooperative

Public Health Program under the direction of the Ministry of Public

Health and Social Welfare and the Institute of Inter-American affairs,

the text of which is as follows :

61 STAT. ] PERU-HEALTH AND SANITATION-APR. 16, 19, 1947

2965

"This Supplementary Agreement concluded between Dr. Alberto Hurtado , Minister of Public Health and Social Welfare , in representation of the Government of Peru (designated hereinafter as the ' Minis-

Text of supplementary agreement.
61 Stat . , Pt. 4, p. 3364.

ter') and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, an incorporated

agency of the Government of the United States of America (designated

hereinafter as the ' Institute ') , represented by Dr. Ernest B. Howard,

Special Representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs , is

concluded for the purpose of introducing certain changes in the

Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program which was established

by an exchange of notes between His Excellency David Dasso , Minis-

ter of Hacienda and Commerce of Peru, and His Excellency Sumner

Welles , Under Secretary of State of the United States of America, in May 1942, and subsequent communications exchanged between the

58 Stat. 1543.

Institute and the Minister during July and October, 1942 , [ ' ] and

confirmed by Supreme Resolutions No. 1895a of July 14, 1942 , and

No. 2947a of October 31 , 1942 (designated hereinafter as the ' Basic

Contract') . The Basic Contract was extended until June 30 , 1947,

by an exchange of notes, confirmed by Supreme Resolution No. 248

of March 17 , 1944 (designated hereinafter as the ' Extension Contract ') , dated March, 1944 , between the Minister of Public Health and Social Welfare of Peru and the Executive Vice President of the

Ante, p. 2488.

Institute .

ARTICLE I.

"The Contracting Parties jointly propose, agree and declare that the Basic Contract, in its extended form , shall be supplemented, and therefore, by this agreement, it is supplemented and, in addition, amended, in accordance with the articles which are specified below.

ARTICLE II .

"A group of officials and technicians known as the ' Mission of the Health and Sanitation Division of the Institute of Inter-American
Affairs in Peru' shall continue to represent the Institute in Peru and this group of officials and technicians shall remain under the immediate direction of an official of the Institute known as the 'Chief of the Mission' . The Chief of the Mission shall continue to act as the Director

Representation Institute in Peru.
Chief of Mission.

of the Cooperative Inter-American Public Health Service (designated hereinafter as the ' Service ') during the period covered by in this Supplementary Agreement.

ARTICLE III .

Extension of Ama"Paragraph 3 of the Extension Contract shall be amended hereby, zon Program .
it being the desire and intention of the Contracting Parties that the Ante, p. 2490.

Amazon Program be extended and continued within the administra-

tion of the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program, under the direction of the Service , on and after December 31 , 1946 , and therefore

the Contracting Parties agree that the Amazon Program is extended ,

and shall continue in operation under the direction of the Service from January 1 , 1947 to June 30, 1947, inclusive.

1 [Not printed .] 95347°-49-- PT. III- -44

2966

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

ARTICLE IV.

naFnucendosf Afmoarzomaninte- To the end that they may be applied to the expenses of mainte-

gram .

nance and operation of the Amazon Program, during the period covered

by this Agreement , the Contracting Parties agree to contribute funds

during this period of time, in the following manner :

Contribution by Institute .

(a) The Institute shall contribute a sum which shall not exceed

twenty thousand dollars ($ 20,000) and shall deposit that sum

Sums withheld from deposits.

to the account of the Service on January 31 , 1947 or before that date.
(b) The Institute may withhold from the deposits mentioned in Article IV (a) the sums which the Minister and the Chief of

the Mission consider necessary for the payment of the pur-

chases, made in the United States of America , of materials,

supplies and equipment, and other expenses connected with

the execution of the Amazon Program. Any of the funds

thus withheld by the Institute shall be considered as deposited under the terms of Article IV (a) , but if they are not spent

or pledged for such purposes , they shall be deposited to the account of the Service for the Amazon Program, at any time,

Peruvian deposit .

in accordance with the joint agreement of the Minister and the Chief of the Mission.
(c) The Government of Peru shall deposit to the account of the

Service the equivalent , in Peruvian currency, of one hundred

forty-six thousand five hundred dollars ($ 146,500) , United

States currency, at the exchange rate of 6.50 soles for each United States dollar, in the following manner:

Modification ofplan of deposits.
Surplus sum
Additional contri. butions.

On or before January 31 , 1947 On or before April 30 , 1947

Total

$73, 250 $73, 250 $146 , 500

(d) By a written agreement between the Minister and the Chief of the Mission, the plan of deposits, according to Article IV (a) and (c) , may be modified according to the needs of the Amazon Program .
(e) The funds credited to the account of Service, in conformity with Article IV (a) and (c) , do not have to be deposited in a special account, but may be deposited in the general account of the Service, and, if the Minister and the Chief of the Mission decide, at any time, that the funds which must be deposited in conformity with the said Article IV (a) and (c) exceed the sum necessary to pay the calculated expenses of the Amazon Program, during the period covered by this Supplementary Agreement, then the surplus sum may be used for any other purpose of the cooperative program, by mutual agreement between the Minister and the Chief of the Mission.

(f) The Service may receive contributions from any source, in addition to those mentioned in Article IV (a) and (c) , and the Service may spend such contributions, in the same manner

61 STAT. ] PERU-HEALTH AND SANITATION-APR. 16, 19, 1947

2967

as other funds , for the uses and purposes of the Cooperative

Health and Sanitation Program , provided that the receipt

of such additional contributions by the Service is in accord-

ance with an advance written mutual agreement between the Minister and Chief of the Mission. (g) Any of the funds and other property acquired by the Service

Funds not etc.

spent,

which are not spent, used and pledged at the expiration of

the period covered by this Supplementary Agreement shall remain the property of the Government of Peru and shall

continue to be used for the purposes of the cooperative program in a manner mutually agreed upon, in writing, by the Minister and the Chief of the Mission.

ARTICLE V.

"The Basic Contract, in its extended form, is also amended by the
inclusion of the following paragraph : Exemption of mem-
"The members who make up the Health and Sanitation Mission bers of Mission from of the Institute shall not be obligated to pay, in Peru, any direct taxes, etc. tax, social security or pension, in case they are subject to the payment of the said taxes in the United States of America. The

Government of Peru shall permit free entry of, or, in lieu thereof, shall pay the respective duties on material and equipment necessary for the professional use of the personnel of the Mission. Likewise, the Government of Peru shall permit the free entry of, or guarantee the respective duties on, the personal effects of the members of the Mission, in accordance with the restrictive conditions to which the members of the Diplomatic Corps accredited to the Government of Peru are subject ; for the purposes of this Agreement, the members of the Mission shall be considered as First Secretaries of the Diplomatic Service as regards exemptions '.

ARTICLE VI.

"The Basic Contract and

the

Extension Contract above-mentioned

Continued obligation of Peruvian Gov-

shall remain in full force and therefore continues the obligation of the ernAnmteen,tp. . 2488.

Peruvian Government to pay the instalments for January and April,

1947, in the amount of ten thousand seven hundred and twenty-five

dollars ($ 10,725) each, at the rate of exchange of 6.50 soles per dollar,

except as they have been modified by this Supplementary Agreement or by reason of their being contradictory thereto.

ARTICLE VII .
"This Supplementary Agreement shall have the effect of a formal Agreement completely obligating the Contracting Parties and shall come into force after January 1 , 1947, as soon as Diplomatic Notes have been exchanged, confirming and approving the terms of this Supplementary Agreement between the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Worship of the Government of Peru and the Embassy of the United States of America in Peru.

Entry into force.

2968

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

"In witness whereof, the Contracting Parties had this Supplementary Agreement executed by their duly authorized representatives, in duplicate , in the English and Spanish languages, at Lima, Peru, on March 27, 1947.

MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-

SOCIAL WELFARE

AMERICAN AFFAIRS

Signed: ALBERTO HURTADO, Minister.

Signed : ERNEST B. HOWARD, Special Representative

If Your Excellency finds it acceptable , this Note, together with the reply which it merits, shall be considered as the fulfilment of the specification of Article VII of this Supplementary Agreement, the terms of the Agreement thus being confirmed and approved.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
E. GARCÍA SAYAN
His Excellency PRENTICE COOPER, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America. City.

The American Ambassador to the Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 485

LIMA, April 19, 1947

EXCELLENCY :

Ante, p. 2964.

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's note No. (D) 6-3/35 of April 16 , 1947 , in which you were good enough to inform me of the promulgation of Supreme Resolution No. 32 of March 16 , which approved the execution of a Supplementary Agreement for the extension to June 30, 1947, of the Cooperative Public Health Program under the direction of the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs. The

text of the Supplementary Agreement which was signed on March 27 ,

1947, by His Excellency Dr. Alberto Hurtado, Minister of Public

Health and Social Welfare, and by Dr. Ernest B. Howard, Special

Representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, has been

incorporated verbatim in Your Excellency's note under acknowledg-

ment.

Confirmation of

terms ofagreement.

Consequently, this note, together with Your Excellency's note

referred to , constitute an agreement between the Governments of the

United States of America and of the Republic of Perú by which the

terms of the Supplementary Agreement are confirmed and approved.

I avail myself of this occasion to extend to Your Excellency the

61 STAT. ] PERU- HEALTH AND SANITATION-APR. 16, 19, 1947
renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
PRENTICE COOPER
His Excellency DR. ENRIQUE GARCÍA SAYAN, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lima.

2969

2970

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

June 25, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1631]

Agreement between the United States of America and Austria respecting relief assistance. Signed at Vienna June 25, 1947; entered into force June 25, 1947.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND AUSTRIA

WHEREAS, it is the desire of the United States to provide relief assistance to the Austrian people to prevent suffering and to permit them to continue effectively their efforts toward recovery ; and

WHEREAS , the Austrian Government has requested the United States Government for relief assistance and has presented information which convinces the United States Government that the Austrian

Government urgently needs assistance in obtaining the basic essentials

of life for the people of Austria ; and

Authority to pro-

vide assistance.

WHEREAS, the United States Congress has by Public Law 84,

61 Stat. , Pt. 1 , p. 125. Eightieth Congress , May 31 , 1947 , authorized the provision of relief

assistance to the people of those countries which, in the determina-

tion of the President , need such assistance and have given satisfactory assurances covering the relief program as required by the Act of Congress ; and
WHEREAS, the Austrian Government and the United States Government desire to define certain conditions and understandings concerning

the handling and distribution of the United States relief supplies and to establish the general lines of their cooperation in meeting the relief needs of the Austrian people;

The Government of the United States represented by Lieutenant

General Geoffrey Keyes, U.S. High Commissioner, Commanding General U.S.F.A. , and the Government of Austria represented by

Federal Chancellor Ing. Dr. h. c. Leopold Figl and Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Karl Gruber, have agreed as follows :

ARTICLE I.

Furnishing of Supplies

Types, quantities, etc.

(a) The program of assistance to be furnished shall consist of such

types and quantities of supplies, and procurement, storage, trans-

portation and shipping services related thereto , as may be determined from time to time by the United States Government after consultation with the Austrian Government in accordance with the Public Law

61 Stat. , Pt. 1, p. 125. 84, Eightieth Congress, May 31 , 1947, and any Acts amendatory or supplementary thereto . Such supplies shall be confined to certain

basic essentials of life ; namely, food , medical supplies , processed and

unprocessed material for clothing, fertilizers , pesticides , fuel, and seeds .

61 STAT.] AUSTRIA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE JUNE 25, 1947

2971

No claim for pay(b) Subject to the provisions of Article III , the United States ment. Government will make no request, and will have no claim , for pay-

ment for United States relief supplies and services furnished under this Agreement.
(c) United States Government agencies will provide for the procurement, storage , transportation and shipment to Austria of United

Procurement by ..agencies, etc.

States relief supplies, except to the extent that the United States

Government may authorize other means for the performance of these services in accordance with procedures stipulated by the United States Government. All United States relief supplies shall be procured in the United States except when specific approval for procure-

ment outside the United States is given by the United States Government.
(d) The Austrian Government will from time to time submit in advance to the High Commissioner of the United States in Austria

Approval of proposed Austrian pro-
grams.

its proposed programs for relief import requirements . These programs shall be subject to screening and approval by the United States

Government and procurement shall be authorized only for items contained in the approved programs.
(e) Transfers of United States relief supplies shall be made under

Transfers.

Arrangements to be determined by the High Commissioner of the

United States or other designated officials of the United States Government in consultation with the Austrian Government. The

United States Government, whenever it deems it desirable, may

retain possession of any United States relief supplies , or may recover

possession of any United States relief supplies transferred up to the

city or local community where such supplies are made available to the ultimate consumers.

ARTICLE II.

Distribution of Supplies in Austria

(a) All United States relief supplies shall be distributed by the Austrian Government under the direct supervision and control of the United States representatives and in accordance with the terms of this Agreement . The distribution shall be through commercial channels to the extent feasible and desirable.
(b) All United States relief supply imports shall be free of fiscal charges including customs duties up to the point where they are sold for local currency as provided by Article III of this Agreement unless when because of price practices, it is advisable to include customs charges or government taxes in prices fixed, in which case the amount thus collected in United States relief supply imports shall accrue to the special account referred to in Article III . All United States relief supply imports given free to indigents, institutions and others shall be free of fiscal charges, including customs duties.
(c) The Austrian Government will designate a high-ranking official who shall have the responsibility of liaison between the Austrian Government and the United States representatives responsible for the relief program.

Fiscal charges. Liaison.

2972

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

Distribution by Austrian Govern- (d) The Austrian Government will distribute United States relief ment.
supplies and similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources without discrimination as to race, creed or political party or belief. Such supplies shall not be diverted to non-essential uses or for export or removal from the country and an excessive amount of said supplies shall not be used to assist in the maintenance of Austrian armed forces, and in no event shall such supplies be used to maintain the armed forces of any occupying power.
(e) The Austrian Government will so conduct the distribution of United States relief supplies and similar supplies produced locally and imported from outside sources as to assure a fair and equitable share of the supplies to all classes of the people throughout Austria.
(f) A ration and price control system shall be maintained and the distribution shall be so conducted that all classes of the population , irrespective of purchasing power, shall receive their fair share of
supplies covered in this Agreement.

ARTICLE III.

Utilization of Funds Accruing from Sales of United States Supplies.

Price agreement.

(a) The prices at which the United States relief supplies shall be

Deposit of currency .

local

sold in Austria shall be agreed upon between the Austrian Government and the United States Government.
(b) When United States relief supplies are sold for local currency, the amount of such local currency shall be deposited by the Austrian Government in a special account in the name of the Austrian Government.

Disposition.

(c) Until June 30, 1948 , such funds shall be disposed of only upon approval of the duly authorized representatives of the United States Government for relief and work relief purposes within Austria, including local currency expenses of the United States incident to the

Austrian advances.

furnishing of relief. Any unencumbered balance remaining in such account on June 30 , 1948, shall be disposed of within Austria for such purposes as the United States Government, pursuant to Act or Joint Resolution of Congress, may determine.
(d) The Austrian Government will upon request advance funds to the United States representatives to meet local currency expenses

Unusual costs.

incident to the furnishing of relief. (e) While it is not intended that the funds accruing from sales of

the United States relief supplies normally shall be used to defray the local expenses of the Austrian Government in handling and distrib-

uting the United States relief supplies , the United States representatives shall consider with the Austrian Government the use of the

Reports on collections, etc.

funds to cover unusual costs which would place an undue burden on the Austrian Government.
(f) The Austrian Government will each month make available to the United States representatives reports on collections , balances

and expenditures from the fund.

(g) The Austrian Government will assign officials to confer and

plan with the United States representatives regarding the disposition

61 STAT.] AUSTRIA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE- JUNE 25, 1947

2973

of funds accruing from sales and to assure proper use of such funds. ARTICLE IV. Effective Production, Food Collections and Use of Resources to Reduce Relief Needs .

(a) The Austrian Government affirms that it has taken and is taking in so far as possible the economic measures necessary to reduce its relief needs and to provide for its own future reconstruction .
(b) The Austrian Government will undertake not to permit any measures to be taken involving delivery , sale or granting of any articles of the character covered in this agreement which would reduce the locally produced supply of such articles and thereby increase the burden of relief.
(c) The Austrian Government will furnish regularly current information to the United States representatives regarding plans and progress in increasing production and improving collection of locally produced supplies suitable for relief throughout Austria .
ARTICLE V. United States Mission

(a) The United States Government will attach to the United

States Legation in Vienna , representatives who shall constitute a

relief mission and shall act under instructions of the High Commis-

sioner of the United States in Austria in discharging the responsibili-

ties of the United States Government under this Agreement and the Public Law 84, Eightieth Congress , May 31 , 1947. The Austrian

61 Stat., Pt. 1 , p. 125.

Government will permit and facilitate the movement of the United

States representatives to, in and from Austria. Freedom of super-
(b) The Austrian Government will permit and facilitate in every vision, etc.

way the freedom of the United States representatives to supervise ,

inspect, report and travel throughout Austria at any and all times,

and to cooperate fully with them in carrying out all of the provisions

of this Agreement . The Austrian Government will furnish the necessary automobile transportation to permit the United States.

representatives to travel freely throughout Austria and without
delay . Privileges and im-
(c) The United States representatives and the property of the munities.
Mission and of its personnel shall enjoy in Austria the same privileges and immunities as are enjoyed by the personnel of the United States
Legation in Austria and the property of the Legation and of its personnel.

ARTICLE VI.

Freedom of United States Press and Radio Representatives to

Observe and Report

The Austrian Government agrees to permit representatives of the United States press and radio to observe freely and report fully and without censorship regarding the distribution and utilization of relief

2974

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

supplies and the use of funds accruing from sale of United States relief supplies.
ARTICLE VII. Reports , Statistics and Information

(a) The Austrian Government will maintain adequate statistical and other records on relief and will consult with the United States

representatives, upon their request, with regard to the maintenance

of such records .

(b) The Austrian Government will furnish promptly upon request of the United States representatives information concerning the production, use, distribution , importation , and exportation of any

Abuses or violations ofagreement.

supplies which affect the relief needs of the people. (c) In case United States representatives report apparent abuses or
violations of this Agreement, the Austrian Government will investi-

gate and report and promptly take such remedial action as is neces-

sary to correct such abuses or violations as are found to exist.

ARTICLE VIII . Publicity Regarding United States Assistance .

(a) The Austrian Government will permit and arrange full and

continuous publicity regarding the purpose, source , character , scope,

amounts and progress of the United States relief program in Austria,

including the utilization of funds accruing from sales of United

mePnubtliciantioAnuosftargireaen States relief supplies for the benefit of the people . In addition , at

newspapers .

least on two occasions, on its coming into force, and once during the

period relief distribution is in effect, the Austrian Government will

arrange that this entire Agreement be published in the newspapers of

the three largest communities of the country.

Marking, etc., ofre-

lief supplies.

(b) All United States relief supplies and any articles processed

from such supplies , or containers of such supplies or articles , shall,

to the extent practicable, be marked, stamped , branded , or labelled

in a conspicuous place in such a manner as to indicate to the ultimate

consumer that such supplies or articles have been furnished by the

United States for relief assistance ; or if such supplies, articles , or containers are incapable of being so marked , stamped, branded , or labelled , all practicable steps will be taken by the Austrian Government to inform the ultimate consumer thereof that such supplies or articles have been furnished by the United States for relief assistance.

ARTICLE IX.

Termination of Relief Assistance

The United States Government will terminate any or all of its relief assistance at any time whenever it determines ( 1) by reason of changed conditions the provision of relief assistance of the character authorized 61 Stat. , Pt. 1, p. 125. by the Public Law 84, Eightieth Congress , May 31 , 1947 , is no longer necessary; (2) any provisions of this Agreement are not being carried out ; (3) an excessive amount of United States relief supplies , or of similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources ,

61 STAT.] AUSTRIA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JUNE 25, 1947

2975

is being used to assist in the maintenance of Austrian armed forces, or if any such supplies are used to assist in the maintenance of armed forces of any occupying power , or (4) United States relief supplies or similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources are being exported or removed from Austria. The United States Government may stop or alter its program of assistance whenever in its determination other circumstances warrant such action .

ARTICLE X.

Date of Agreement

This Agreement shall take effect as from this day's date. It shall continue in force until a date to be agreed upon by the two Governments .

Effective date; duration.

Done in duplicate in the English and German languages at Vienna, this twentyfifth day of June, 1947 .

For the Government of the United States : GEOFFREY KEYES

[ SEAL]

For the Government of Austria :
FIGL LEOPOLD GRUBER

2976

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Abkommen zwischen Österreich und den Vereinigten Staaten .
Nachdem es der Wunsch der Vereinigten Staaten ist , dem österreichischen Volk Hilfeleistung zu gewähren , um Leiden zu verhindern und dem österreichischen Volk zu ermöglichen , in seinen Anstrengungen zur Wiederherstellung normaler Verhältnisse wirksam fortzufahren ,
nachdem die österreichische Bundesregierung die Rgierung der Vereinigten Staaten um Hilfeleistung gebeten und ausreichende Informationen erteilt hat , die die Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten überzeugen , daß die öster reichische Bundesregierung dringend der Hilfe bedarf , um das zum Leben Notwendigste für das österreichische Volk zu beschaffen ,
nachdem der Kongreß der Vereinigten Staaten durch Gesetz 84 der 80.Kongreßperiode vom 31.Mai 1947 die Vollmacht zur Gewährung von Hilfeleistung an die Völker jener Länder erteilt hat , die nach dem Ermessen des Präsidenten solche Hilfe benötigen und Sicherheiten gewähren , daß das Hilfs programm so durchgeführt wird , wie dies durch Beschluß des Kongresses verlangt wird ,
nachdem die österreichische Bundesregierung und die Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten bestimmte Bedingungen und Abreden , betreffend die tandhabung und Verteilung der Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten festzusetzen wünschen und die allgemeinen Richtlinien ihrer Zusammenarbeit zur Befriedigung des Hilfsbedarfes des österreichischen Volkes niederlegen wollen , sind die österreichische Bundesregierung , vertreten durch Bundeskanzler Ing.Dr.h.c. Leopold Figl und Bundesminister für die Auswärtigen Angelegenheiten Dr. Karl Gruber , und die Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten , vertreten durch Generalleutnant Geoffrey Keyes , Hochkommissär der Vereinigten Staa-
./.

61 STAT.] AUSTRIA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JUNE 25, 1947

2977

tn , Kommandierender General der amerikanischen Streitkräfte in usterreich , übereingekommen wie folgt :
Artikel 1 . Durchführung von Lieferungen .
(A ) Das durchzuführende Hilfsprogramm soll solche Artun and kengen von Lieferungen , sowie die mit diesen Lieferungen verbundenen Beschaffungen , Einlagerungen , Land -und seetransporte umfassen , wie sie von Zeit zu Zeit von der kegierung der vereinigten Staaten nach Besprechung mit der österreichischen Bundesregierung in Übereinstimmung mit Gesetz 84 , 80.Kongreßperiode vom 31.Mai 1947 und etwaigen Abänderungs - oder crgänzungsbestimmungen festgelegt werden .
Diese Lieferungen sollen auf bestimmte grundlegende , lebenswichtige waren beschränkt sein , das sind Lebensmittel , Medikamente , verarbeitetes und unverarbeitetes Material für Kleidung , Kunstdunger , landwirtschaftliche Desinfektionsmittel , Brennstoffe und Saatgut .
( B ) Vorbehaltlich der Bestimmungen des Artikels III wird die Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten keinen Anspruch erheben und keine rechte besitzen auf Bezahlung für Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten und Dienste , die gemäs dieses Abkommens geleistet werden .
(C) Dienststellen der Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten werden für die Beschaffung , Einlagerung , den Land-und beetransport der Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten nach Österreich Dorge tragen . Dies schließt jedoch nicht aus , daß die Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten andere Mittel für die Durchführung dieser Dienste nach von der Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten festgelegten Richtlinien genehmigt . Alle Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten sollen in den Vereinigten Staaten beschafft werden , soferne nicht eine besondere Genehmigung zur Beschaffung außer-
./.

2978

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

halb der Vereinigten Staaten durch die Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten erteilt wird .
( D ) Die österreichische Bundesregierung wird von Zeit zu Zeit im voraus dem Hochkommissär der Vereinigten Staaten für Österreich ihre Programmvorschläge für den Einfuhrbedarf von Hilfslieferungen vorlegen . Diese Programme sind der Prüfung und Genehmigung durch die Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten unterworfen ; es wird nur die Beschaffung jener Waren zulässig sein . die in den genehmigten Programmen enthalten sind .
(E ) Die Übergabe von Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigtea Staaten soll so erfolgen , wie dies vom Hochkommissär der Vereinigten Staaten oder anderen hierzu bevollmächtigten Beauftragten der Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten nach Beratung mit der österreichischen Bundesregierung festgelegt wird . Die Legierung der Vereinigten Staaten kann wenn immer sie es für wünschenswert hält - sich das Eigentum an irgendwelchen Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten vorbehalten . Sie kann das cigentum an Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten auch wieder erlangen , selbst wenn diese Lieferungen bereits an Städte oder Gemeinden übertragen wurden , wo diese Lieferungen dem endgiltigen Verbraucher verfügbar gemacht werden .
Artikel II . Verteilung der Hilfslieferungen in Österreich .
(A ) Alle Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten sollen durch die österreichische Bundesregierung unter direkter Aufsicht und Kontrolle der Vertreter der Vereinigten Staaten und in Übereinstimmung mit den Bedingungen dieses Abkommens verteilt werden . Die Verteilung soll durch den llandel erfolgun , soweit dies zweckmäßig und wünschenswort erscheint .
d.

61 STAT.] AUSTRIA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE -JUNE 25, 1947
( B ) Alle Importe von Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigten staaten sollen frei von staatlichen Abgaben , einschließlich Zollen , erfolgen . Diese Abgabenfreiheit soll für ihre Behandlung bis zu dem Zeitpunkt Geltung haben , an dem sie gegen Bezahlung in österreichischer Währung verkauft werden , wie dies in Artikel III dieses Vertrages vorgesehen ist . ausnahmen sind zulässig , wenn es aus Gründen der Preisgebarung wünschenswert erscheint , Zölle oder Steuern in die festgesetzten Preise einzubeziehen . Ia diesem Falle sollen die so auf Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten erhobenen Leträge dem in Artikel II erwähnten besonderen Konto zuwachsen . Alle Wilfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten , die bedurftigen , juristischen oder anderen Personen umsonst übergeben werden , sollen von allen staatlichen Abgaben einschließlich Zöllen , befreit sein .
(C ) Die österreichische Bundesregierung wird einen hohen Staatsbeamten bestimmen , der die Verantwortlichkeit für die Verbindung zwischen der österreichischen Bundesregierung und den für das Hilfsprogramm verantwortlichen Vertretern der Vereinigten Staaten buben wird .
( D) Die österreichische Cundesregierung wird die Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten und ähnliche aus der lnlunds produktion stammende oder eingeführte Lieferungen ohne Rücksicht auf Rasse , Glaubens bekenntnis , Zugehörigkeit zu politischen Parteien oder Weltenschauung verteilen. Diese Lieferungen sollen nicht fur nicht lebenswichtige oder Export zwecke verwendet .und nicht aus dem Lande verbracht werden . Es soll nicht ein übermäßig großer Teil dieser Lieferungen für die Haltung österreichischer Streitkräfte verwendet werden und auf keinen Fall dürfen solche Lieferungen zum Unterhalt der streitkräfte einer Besatzungsmacht Ver-
./.

2979

2980

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
wendung finden .
( E ) Die österreichische Bundesregierung wird die Verteilung der Hilfslieferungua der Vereinigten Staaten und ähnlicher Lieferungen , die aus der Inlands production oier aus Importen stammen , so lenken , daß für alle Bevölkerungsklassen überall in Österreich ein gerechter und billiger Anteil an diesen Lieferungen gesichert ist .
( F ) Rationierung und Preiskontrolle sollen aufrecht erhalten werden und die Verteilung soll so gelenkt werden , das alle Klassen der Bevölkerung , unabhängig von ihrer Kaufkraft , einen gerechten Anteil an den Lieferungen erhalten , die auf Grund dieses Abkommens erfolgen .
Artikel IIL . Verwendung der Geldmittel , die durch Verkauf von milfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten eingehen .
( A ) Die Preise , zu denen Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten in Österreich verkauft werden , sind durch Vereinbarung zwischen der österreichischen Bundesregierung und der Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten festzulegen .
( B ) Wena Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten gegen Bezahlung in österreichischer Währung verkauft werden , so sind die so erlisten Beträge durch die österreichische Bundesregierung auf ein besonderes , auf den Namen der österreichischen Bundesregierung lautendes Konto einzuzahien .
(C ) Bis einschlieblich 30.Juni 1948 dürfen diese Beträge nur mit Genehmigung von gehörig bevollmächtigten Vertretern der Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten und dann nur fur Hilfszwecke und Zwecke der Arbeitsbeschaffung innerhalb Österreichs einschließlich Ausgaben der Vereinigten Staaten in österreichischer Währung im Zusammenhang mit den Hilfs-
./.

61 STAT. ] AUSTRIA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE -JUNE 25, 1947
lieferungen verwendet werden . Der an 30.Juni 1948 auf diesem Konto verbleibende unbelastete Betrag soll innerhalb Üsterreichs für Zwecke verwendet werden , die die Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten in Durchführung eines Act oder einer Joint Resolution des Kongresses bestimmt .
( D ) Die österreichische Bundesregierung wird auf Anforderung dem Vertreter der Vereinigten Staaten jene Beträge vorschießen , die notwendig sind , um die Ausgaben in österreichischer Währung zu decken , die mit den Hilfslieferungen in Zusammenhang stehen .
( E ) Es ist nicht in Aussicht genommen , daß die aus den Verkäufen von Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten eingehenden Beträge regelmäsig dazu verwendet werden , die der österreichischen Bundesregierung durch die Verteilung der Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten in Österreich entstehenden kosten zu decken . Der Vertreter der Vereinigten Staaten soll jedoch gemeinsam mit der österreichischen Bundesregierung die verwendung solcher Beträge zur Abdeckung ungewöhnlicher Kosten erwägen , die der österreichischen Bundesregierung eine unbillige Last auferlegen würden .
(F ) Die österreichische Bundesregierung wird monatlich den Vertretern der Vereinigten Staaten Berichte über die Eingänge , den Saldo und die Ausgaben des besonderen Kontos zugänglich machen .
(G ) Die österreichische Bundesregierung wird Beamte bestimmen , die mit den Vertretern der Vereinigten Staaten bezüglich der Verfügung über die aus den Verkäufen eingenommenen Beträge zu beraten und zu planen sowie die angemessene Verwendung dieser Beträge sicher
./.

2981

95347° -49- PT. III -45

2982

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

zu stellen haben .
Artikel IV . Möglichst große Produktion . Lebensmittelablieferungen und Verwendung der vorhandenen Mittel zur Reduzierung des liilfsbedarfs .
(A ) Die österreichische Bundesregierung versichert , daß sie alle erforderlichen wirtschaftlichen Maßnahmen ergriffen hat und soweit dies möglich ist , weiterhin ergreifen wird , um den Hilfsbedarf zu verringern und für den künftigen eigenen Wiederaufbau Vorsorge zu treffen .
( B ) Die österreichische Bundesregierung verpflichtet sich , keine Maßnahmen zu gestatten , die die Auslieferung , den Verkauf oder die unentgeltliche Abgabe von Waren der in diesem Abkommen behandelten art beinhalten , wenn die im Inland bestehenden Liefermöglichkeiten solcher waren verringert und die Last der Hilfsleistung hiedurch gesteigert würden .
(C ) Die österreichische Bundesregierung wird regelmäßig laufende Berichte über Pläne und Fortschritte in der Produktionsvermehrung und in der besseren Erfassung der inländischen ürzeugung , soweit diese für Hilfslieferungen in irgendeinem Teil Österreichs in Frage komat , an die Vertreter der Vereinigtn staaten geben .
Artikel V. Reliefmission der Vereinigten Staaten.
(A ) Die Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten wird der Gesandtschaft der Vereinigten Staaten in wien Vertreter zuteilen , die eine Reliefmission bilden und bei Erfüllung der Verpflichtungen der Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten aus diesem Abkommen und dem Gesetz 84 , 80.Kongreßperiode ,
./.

61 STAT. ] AUSTRIA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JUNE 25, 1947
31.Mai 1947 , gemäß den weisungen des Hochkommissärs der Vereinigten Staaten für Österreich handeln sollen . Die österreichische Bundesregierung wird die Reise der Vertreter, der Vereinigten Staaten nach , in und von Osterreich erlauben und erleichtern .
( B ) Die österreichische Bundesregierung wird den Vertretern der Vereinigten Staaten die freie überwachung, Besichtigung , Berichterstattung und Reisemöglichkeit durch ganz Österreich zu jeder Zeit gestatten und in jeder Woise erleichtern , sowie mit diesen in der Ausführung aller Bestimmungen dieses Abkommens voll zusammenarbeiten . Die österreichische Bundesregierung wird die nötigen Kraftfahrmittel beistellen , um den Vertretern der Vereinigten Staaten zu ermöglichen , frei und ohne Verzögerung durch ganz Österreich zu reisen .
(C ) Die Vertreter der Vereinigten Staaten , das Eigentum der Mission und deren Personal sollen in Österreich dieselben Privilegien und Immunitäten genießen , wie sie das Personal der Gesandtschaft der Vereinigten Staaten in Österreich , das Eigentum der Gesamtschaft und deren Personal genießen .
Artikel VI . Freiheit der Presse -und Rundfunkvertreter der Vereinigten Staaten bezüglich Beobachtung und Berichterstattung .
Die österreichische Bundesregierung übernimmt es , den Vertretern der Presse und des Rundfunks der Vereinigten Staaten zu gestatten , bezüglich der Verteilung und Verwendung der Hilfsleistungen und der Verwenlung von Beträgen , die aus dem Verkauf von Hilfsleistungen herrühren , freie Beobachtungen zu machen
./ .

2983

2984

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

und vollständig und unzensuriert zu berichten .
Artikel VII . Berichte , statistik und Information .
( A ) Die österreichische Bundesregierung wird ausreichende statistische und andere Aufzeichnungen über die Hilfeleistung führen und wird sich auf verlangen der Vertreter der Vereinigten Staaten mit diesen über die Führung solcher Aufzeichnungen beraten .
( B ) Die österreichische Bundesregierung wird auf Verlangen der Vertreter der Vereinigten Staaten prompte informationen liefern , betreffend die Produktion , den Gebrauch , die Verteilung , den import und den export aller Waren , die den Hilfsbedarf des Volkes berührea .
( C ) Fals die Vertreter der Vereinigten staat, n von angeblichen Kibräuchen oder Verletzungen dieses Abkommens berichten , wird die österreichische Bundesregierung dies untersuchen un ? berichten und umgehende geeignete Abhilfsmaßnahmen treffen , um solche festgestellte Mißbräuche oder Verletzungen abzustellen .
Artikel VIII . Publizität der Hilfsleistungen der Vereinigten Staaten .
( A ) Die österreichische Bundesregierung wird volle und dauernde Bekanntgabe erlauben und bewerkstelligen über das Ziel , die quelle , den Charakter , den Zweck , die Menge und den Fortschritt des Hilfsprogramms der Vereinigten Staaten in Österreich mit Jinschluß der Verwendung von Beträgen , die aus Verkäufen von Milfslieferungon der Vereinigten staaten zum wohle des Volkes entstehen. Außerdem wird die osterreichische Bundesregierung wenigstens bei zwei Anlässen , und zwar beim Inkrafttreten und einmal währead der ¿ cit , in der die Verteilung der Hilfslieferungen
./.

61 STAT.] AUSTRIA- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JUNE 25, 1947
durchgeführt wird , dafür sorgen , daß dieses Abkommen in vollem Wortlaut in den Zeitungen der drei grösten Orte des Landes publiziert wird .
( B ) Alle waren aus den Hilfsleistungen der Vereinigten Staaten und alle Artikel , die aus solchen waren hergestellt sind , oder Behälter solcher waren oder Artikel sollen , soweit dies durchführbar ist , an einer auffälligen Stelle bezeichnet , bedruckt , gebrannt oder etikettiert werden in einer Art , die geeignet ist , dem endgiltigen Verbraucher zur Kenntnis zu bringen , daß diese waren oder Artikel von den Vereinigten Staaten als Hilfsleistung geliefert wurden ; oder wenn solche .aren , Artikel oder Behälter nicht geeignet sind , in dieser Weise bezeichnet , bedruckt , gebrannt oder etikettiert zu werden , werden von der österreichischen Bundesregierung alle geeigneten Maßnahmen getroffen werden , um den endgiltigen Verbraucher darüber zu unterrichten , daß diese waren oder Artikel von den Vereinigten Staaten als dilfsleistung geliefert worden sind .
Artikel 1x . Ende der Hilfeleistung .
Die · Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten wird ihre Hilfeleistung jederzeit teilweise oder ganz einstellen , wenn sie entscheidet ,
1. ) daß infolge veränderter Bedingungen die Beistellung von Hilfeleistungen von der durch Gesetz 84 , 80.Kongreßperiode , 31.Mai 1947 , genehmigten art nicht länger erforderlich ist ,
2. ) daß irgendwelche Bestimmungen dieses Abkommens nicht ausgeführt werden ,
5. ) daß eine übermäßig große Menge von waren aus Hilfslieferungen der Vereinigten Staaten oder von ähnlichen waren , die im Inland erzeugt oder von auswärtigen Quellen importiert werden , zum Unterhalt von österrei-
./..

2985

2986

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
chischen Streitkräften verwendet werden oder wenn irgendwelche Waren dieser Art zum Unterhalt von Streitkräften irgendeiner Besatzungsmacht verwendet werden oder
4. ) daß waren aus den Hilfslieferungen der. Vereinigten Staaten oder waren ähnlicher Art , die im Inland erzeugt oder von auswärtigen Quellen importiert werden , aus Osterreich exportiert oder fortgebracht werden . Die Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten kann ihr Hilfsprogramm ändern oder einstellen , wann immer nach ihrer Entscheidung andere Umstände eine solche Maßnahme rechtfertigen.
Artikel X. Zeitpunkt des übereinkommens
Dieses Übereinkommen tritt mit heutigem Tage in Kraft . Es bleibt in Kraft bis zu einem von den beiden Regierungen einvernehmlich zu bestimmenden Zeitpunkte .
Gegeben in zweifacher Ausfertigung in deutscher und englischer oprache in Wien , am 25.Juni 1947 .

Für die Österreichische Bundesregierung :

Für die Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten :

Figf larmed

Geoffre Kyayar

fiüber

CE APTI AUSW

ER AM T

TER

LF

HEI N

CE GE

ANGELEG

61 STAT.] LEBANON- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-AUG. 11 , 1946

2987

Agreement and exchange of notes between the United States of America and Lebanon respecting air transport services . Signed at Beirut August 11 , 1946; operative from August 11 , 1946; entered into force definitively April 23, 1947.

August 11 , 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1632]

AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND LEBANON

Having in mind the resolution signed under date of December 7, 1944 , ['] at the International Civil Aviation Conference in Chicago, Illinois, for the adoption of a standard form of agreement for provisional air routes and services , and the desirability of mutually stimulating and promoting the sound economic development of air transportation between the United States and Lebanon , the two Governments parties to this arrangement agree that the establishment and development of air transport services between their respective territories shall be governed by the following provisions :

ARTICLE 1
The Contracting Parties grant the rights specified in the Annex hereto necessary for establishing the international civil air routes and services therein described , whether such services be inaugurated immediately or at a later date at the option of the Contracting Party to whom the rights are granted.

Post, p. 2991.

ARTICLE 2

(a) Each of the air services so described shall be placed in operation

Inauguration of air services .

as soon as the Contracting Party to whom the rights have been granted

by Article 1 to designate an airline or airlines for the route concerned has authorized an airline for such route, and the Contracting Party granting the rights shall , subject to Article 6 hereof, be bound to give

Post, p. 2989.

the appropriate operating permission to the airline or airlines con-

cerned ; provided that the airlines so designated may be required to

qualify before the competent aeronautical authorities of the Con-

tracting Party granting the rights under the laws and regulations

normally applied by these authorities before being permitted to engage

in the operations contemplated by this Agreement ; and provided

that in areas of hostilities or of military occupation, or in areas affected

thereby, such inauguration shall be subject to the approval of the competent military authorities.

¹ [International Civil Aviation Conference, Chicago, Illinois, November 1 to December 7, 1944, Final Act and Related Documents, Department of State publication 2282. ]

2988

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

(b) It is understood that either Contracting Party granted commercial rights under this Agreement should exercise them at the earliest practicable date except in the case of temporary inability to do so.
ARTICLE 3

Prevention of discrimination, etc.

In order to prevent discriminatory practices and to assure equality

of treatment, both Contracting Parties agree that:

Post, p. 2991.

(a) Each of the Contracting Parties may impose or permit to be imposed just and reasonable charges for the use of public airports and other facilities under its control. Each of the Contracting Parties agrees, however, that these charges shall not be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services.
(b) Fuel, lubricating oils and spare parts introduced into the territory of one Contracting Party by the other Contracting Party or its nationals, and intended solely for use by aircraft of such other Contracting Party shall be accorded national and most-favored-nation treatment with respect to the imposition of customs duties, inspection fees or other national duties or charges by the Contracting Party whose territory is entered.
(c) The fuel , lubricating oils, spare parts , regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board civil aircraft of the airlines of one
Contracting Party authorized to operate the routes and services described in the Annex shall , upon arriving in or leaving the territory of the other Contracting Party, be exempt from customs, inspection fees or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used or consumed by such aircraft on flights in that territory.

ARTICLE 4

Certificates of airworthiness, etc.

Certificates of airworthiness , certificates of competency and licenses

issued or rendered valid by one Contracting Party shall be recognized

as valid by the other Contracting Party for the purpose of operating

Post, p. 2991.

the routes and services described in the Annex . Each Contracting

Party reserves the right , however, to refuse to recognize , for the pur-

pose of flight above its own territory , certificates of competency and

licenses granted to its own nationals by another state.

ARTICLE 5

Laws and regula-

tions.

(a) The laws and regulations of one Contracting Party relating to

the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged in

61 STAT. ] LEBANON- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES - AUG. 11, 1946

2989

international air navigation , or to the operation and navigation of such aircraft while within its territory, shall be applied to the aircraft of the other Contracting Party, and shall be complied with by such aircraft upon entering or departing from or while within the territory of the first Party.
(b) The laws and regulations of one Contracting Party as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers , crew, or cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance, immigration, passports, customs, and quarantine shall be complied with by or on behalf of such passengers , crew or cargo of the other Contracting Party upon entrance into or departure from, or while within the territory of the first party.

ARTICLE 6
Each Contracting Party reserves the right to withhold or revoke ocWaititohnhoolfdicnegrtoirfirceavt-e a certificate or permit to an airline of the other Party in any case or permit . where it is not satisfied that substantial ownership and effective control are vested in nationals of either Party to this Agreement , or in case of failure of an airline to comply with the laws of the State over which it operates as described in Article 5 hereof, or to perform its obligations under this Agreement.

ARTICLE 7

This Agreement and all contracts connected therewith shall be registered with the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization.
ARTICLE 8

Registration.

Either Contracting Party may terminate the rights for services granted by it under this Agreement by giving one year's notice to the other Contracting Party.

Termination.

ARTICLE 9

Modification of In the event either of the Contracting Parties considers it desirable routes, etc.
Post, p. 2991 . to modify the routes or conditions set forth in the attached Annex,

2990

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

20 Disputes.
59 Stat. 1521. 935
Entry into force.
Authentic languages .

yan bne it may request consultation between the competent authorities of both Contracting Parties, such consultation

to begin within a period of sixty days from the date of the request. When these authorities mutually agree on new or revised conditions affecting the Annex, their recommendations on the matter will come into effect after

they have been confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes.

to og

ARTICLE 10

Any dispute between the Contracting Parties relating to the interpretation or application of this Agreement or its Annex, which cannot be settled through consultation , shall be referred for an advisory report to the Interim Council of the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization (in accordance with the provisions of Article 3, Section 6 (8) of the Interim Agreement on Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944) or its successors.
ARTICLE 11

The provisions of this Agreement shall become operative from the day it is signed . The Lebanese Government shall notify the Government of the United States of approval of the Agreement by the Lebanese Parliament, and the Government of the United States shall consider the Agreement as becoming definitive upon the date of such notification by the Lebanese Government. [']
Done at Beirut in duplicate in the English and Arabic languages, each of which shall be of equal authenticity, this 11th day of August, 1946.



For the Government of the United States of America:

hie For the Government of Lebanons

George Wadsworth American Minister

Philipp Taola Minister for Foreign Affairs

1 [Entered into force definitively Apr. 23, 1947, the date of a communication from the Lebanese Ministry for Foreign Affairs to the American Legation at Beirut in which it was stated that the Lebanese Parliament had passed a law, promulgated on Feb. 25, 1947, ratifying the agreement.]

61 STAT. ] LEBANON- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-AUG. 11, 1946

2991

ANNEX TO AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND LEBANON

SECTION 1
Airlines of the United States of America authorized under the U. S. rights oftrans-it and stop in Leba-
present Agreement are accorded rights of transit and non-traffic stop neseterritory. in Lebanese territory as well as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers , cargo and mail at Beirut on the following route :
The United States of America, through Europe and Turkey to Lebanon and beyond to India ; via intermediate points, in both directions.

SECTION 2

Airlines of Lebanon authorized under the present Agreement are accorded rights of transit and non-traffic stop in United States territory as well as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers , cargo and mail in the United States on a route or routes as may be determined at a later date from Lebanon, via intermediate points to the United States in both directions .

Lebanese rights of transit and stop in
U. S. territory.

SECTION 3

In the establishment and operation of air services covered by this Agreement and its Annex, the following principle shall apply :

(1 ) The two Governments desire to

foster and

encourage the

Encouragement air travel.

of

widest possible distribution of the benefits of air travel for the

general good of mankind at the cheapest rates consistent with

sound economic principles ; and to stimulate international air travel

as a means of promoting friendly understanding and good will among peoples and insuring as well the many indirect benefits of

this new form of transportation to the common welfare of both countries .

Provision of ade(2) It is the understanding of both Governments that services quate capacity. provided by a designated air carrier under the Agreement and its

Annex shall retain as their primary objective the provision of

capacity adequate to the traffic demands between the country of

which such air carrier is a national and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic. The right to embark or disembark on such services international traffic destined for and coming from

third countries at a point or points on the routes specified in the Annex to the Agreement shall be applied in accordance with the general principles of orderly development to which both Governments subscribe and shall be subject to the general principle that capacity should be related :

(a) to traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination,

(b) to the requirements of through airline operation, and (c) to the traffic requirements of the area through which the airline passes after taking account of local and regional services.

2992 Consultation.
Ante, p. 2990.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
SECTION 4
The Contracting Parties should undertake regular and frequent consultation between their respective aeronautical authorities so that there should be close collaboration in the observance of the principles and the implementation of the provisions outlined in the Agreement and its Annex, and in case of dispute the matter shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 of the Agreement.

P T.

GW

              
(   )    .
                           
           .                    .                                 .                                    .                    .
 -            (   )
                         
          . )   )
       :            
               
                         

 
·
·

61 STAT. ] LEBANON-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- AUG. 11, 1946

2993



   ..                                    
-                          
      -                     
 -          (  )
   .                     ..                  
          (   )
             .                                   
                 .              -                    -   
                     .                          . 
-            

1

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

2994

      .

        .    

(    )     .              

     

)        .



(       ( )     





           

(   )             .    .                                       
            (   )
        .             

·

(   ) 
            (   )
                                 .                     
         ·    )   )

61 STAT. ] LEBANON-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-AUG . 11, 1946

2995

 

alewitt

      

    
   

               
   .           

2996

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

1 · 
95347°-49- PT. III- -46

         .                                      
( )              :
          
 
                                            
          
 
     :              
      :                         
         
 
         

61 STAT. ] LEBANON-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-AUG. 11, 1946

2997

                            
         
 
   .             -     .
 -             .         .
                                -                                    
( )           



2998

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

61 STAT. ] LEBANON-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-AUG. 11, 1946

Note in the English and Arabic languages from the Lebanese Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Minister

EXCELLENCY :

With reference to the bilateral Air Transport Agreement between Lebanon and United States of America signed today, I have the honor to inform your Excellency that it is the understanding of my government that the so-called Fifth Freedom traffic which may be carried by United States air services between Beirut and Baghdad is dependent upon the conclusion of an appropriate air transport agreement between the United States of America and Iraq. When this latter agreement is concluded , the government of Lebanon agrees not to interpose any objection to permitting a designated United States air carrier to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers, cargo and mail in both directions between Beirut and

Baghdad. Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest
consideration .

BEIRUT, August 11 , 1946. To

P TACLA

His Excellency GEORGE WADSWORTH, American Minister, Beirut.

2999

        
   
     ..             .                 .                                               
         
 





3000

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Note in the English and Arabic languages from the American Minister to the Lebanese Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 296

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to advise your Excellency that I have received your note of today, the text of which is the following:

"With reference to the Bilateral Air Transport Agreement between Lebanon and United States of America signed today , I have the honor to inform your Excellency that it is the understanding of my government that the so-called Fifth Freedom traffic which may be carried by United States air services between Beirut and Baghdad is dependent upon the conclusion of an appropriate air transport agreement between the United States of America and Iraq. When this latter agreement is concluded , the government of Lebanon agrees not to interpose any objection to permitting a designated United States air carrier to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers , cargo and mail in both directions between Beirut and Baghdad. "

I have the honor to inform your Excellency that my government

accepts the arrangement herein included and regards the present reply as confirmation of this understanding between the two governments.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .

BEIRUT, August 11, 1946 To

G. WADSWORTH

His Excellency PHILIP TACLA,

Ministerfor Foreign Affairs Beirut, Lebanon

 -       

   







 

                 
                                       .                                               
         

           

61 STAT. ] LEBANON-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- AUG. 11, 1946

3001

3002

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

August 19, 1947 IT. I. A. S. 1633]

Agreement between the United States of America and El Salvador respecting a military aviation mission . Signed at Washington August 19, 1947; entered into force August 19, 1947.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOV. CONVENIO ENTRE EL GOBIERNO ERNMENT OF THE UNITED DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE STATES OF AMERICA AND THE AMERICA Y EL GOBIERNO DE LA GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUB- REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR LIC OF EL SALVADOR

In conformity with the request De conformidad con la solicitud

of the Government of the Republic del Gobierno de la República de El of El Salvador to the Government Salvador al Gobierno de los Esta-

of the United States of America, dos Unidos de América, el Presithe President of the United States dente de los Estados Unidos de

of America has authorized the ap- América ha autorizado el nombra-

pointment of officers and enlisted miento de oficiales y subalternos

men to constitute a Military Avia- para que constituyan una Misión

tion Mission to the Republic of El Militar Aérea a la República de El

Salvador under the conditions Salvador, de acuerdo con las con-

specified below:

diciones que se estipulan a con-

tinuación :

TITLE I

TITULO I

Purpose and Duration

Finalidades y Duración

ARTICLE 1. The purpose of this ARTICULO 1. El fin de esta
Mission is to cooperate with the Misión es cooperar con el Ministro Minister of Defense of the Repub- de Defensa de la República de El lic of El Salvador and with the Salvador y con el personal de las personnel of the Salvadoran Air Fuerzas Aéreas Salvadoreñas con Force with a view to enhancing miras a mejorar la eficiencia de las the efficiency of the Salvadoran Fuerzas Aéreas Salvadoreñas. Air Force .
ARTICLE 2. This Mission shall ARTICULO 2. La Misión ejercerá
continue for a period of four years sus funciones por un período de from the date of the signing of this cuatro años a contar de la fecha Agreement by the accredited rep- en que firmen este Convenio los resentatives of the Government of representantes autorizados del Gothe United States of America and bierno de los Estados Unidos de the Government of the Republic América y del Gobierno de la of El Salvador, unless previously República de El Salvador, a menos terminated or extended as herein- que se dé por terminado con anteafter provided. Any member of rioridad o que se prorrogue según the Mission may be recalled by the se dispone más adelante. CualGovernment of the United States quier miembro de la Misión podrá of America after the expiration of ser retirado por el Gobierno de los

61 STAT.] EL SALVADOR-MILITARY AVIATION MISSION-AUG. 19, 1947

3003

two years of service, in which case Estados Unidos de América des-

another member shall be furnished pués de transcurridos dos años de

to replace him.

servicio y, en tal caso , se nombrará

a otro miembro en su lugar .

ARTICLE 3. If the Government ARTICULO 3. Si el Gobierno de

of the Republic of El Salvador la República de El Salvador desea

Extension of services of Mission.

should desire that the services of que se prorroguen los servicios de the Mission be extended beyond la Misión más allá del período

the stipulated period , it shall make estipulado , hará una solicitud por

a written proposal to that effect escrito con este objeto seis meses

six months before the expiration antes de la expiración de este

of this Agreement.

Convenio .

ARTICLE 4. This Agreement may ARTICULO 4. Este Convenio

be terminated before the expira- podrá terminarse antes de la ex-

Termination prior to specified time.

tion of the period of four years piración del período de cuatro

prescribed in Article 2 , or before años dispuesto en el Artículo 2,

the expiration of the extension o antes de expirar la prórroga

authorized in Article 3, in the autorizada en el Artículo 3 , de la

following manner:

manera siguiente:

(a) By either of the Govern- (a) Por cualquiera de los dos

ments, subject to three months' Gobiernos, siempre que el uno lo

written notice to the other Gov- notifique al otro por escrito con

ernment ;

tres meses de anticipación ;

(b) By the recall of the entire (b) Al retirar el Gobierno de los

personnel of the Mission by the Estados Unidos de América todo

Government of the United States el personal de la Misión en interés

of America in the public interest público de los Estados Unidos de

of the United States of America, América, sin necesidad de cum-

without necessity of compliance plir con el inciso (a) de este with provision (a) of this Article . Artículo .
ARTICLE 5. This Agreement is ARTICULO 5. Este Convenio está
subject to cancellation upon the sujeto a cancelación por iniciativa, initiative of either the Govern- sea del Gobierno de los Estados ment of the United States of Unidos de América o del Gobierno

Cancellation in case of hostilities.

America or the Government of the de la República de El Salvador,

Republic of El Salvador at any en cualquier momento durante un

time during a period when either período en que uno u otro de los

Government is involved in domes- dos Gobiernos se vea implicado en

tic or foreign hostilities.

hostilidades internas o externas.

TITLE II

TITULO II

Composition and Personnel

Integración y Personal

ARTICLE 6. This Mission shall ARTICULO 6. La Misión estará consist of such personnel of the integrada por el personal de las United States Army Air Forces as Fuerzas Aéreas del Ejército de los may be agreed upon by the Minis- Estados Unidos de América que se ter of Defense of the Republic of determine por acuerdo entre el El Salvador through his authorized Ministro de Defensa de la Repúbrepresentative in Washington and lica de El Salvador, por conducto

3004

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

by the War Department of the de su representante autorizado en

United States of America.

Washington, y la Secretaría de

Guerra de los Estados Unidos de

América .

TITLE III

TITULO III

Duties, Rank, and Precedence Funciones, Grado y Precedencia

ARTICLE 7. The personnel of ARTICULO 7. El personal de la the Mission shall perform such Misión ejercerá las funciones que duties as may be agreed upon determinen por acuerdo el Minisbetween the Minister of Defense tro de Defensa de la República de of the Republic of El Salvador El Salvador y el Jefe de la Misión. and the Chief of the Mission .
ARTICLE 8. The members of the ARTICULO 8. Los miembros de

Mission shall be responsible solely la Misión serán responsables únito the Minister of Defense of the camente ante el Ministro de De-

Republic of El Salvador, through fensa de la República de El Sal-

the Chief of the Mission.

vador, por conducto del Jefe de

la Misión.

ARTICLE 9. Each member of the ARTICULO 9. Cada miembro de

Mission shall serve on the Mission la Misión prestará en ella sus with the rank he holds in the servicios con el grado que tenga

United States Army Air Forces en las Fuerzas Aéreas del Ejército with the exception of the noncom- de los Estados Unidos de América, missioned officers , who shall be a excepción de los clases, que serán commissioned Second Lieutenants nombrados Subtenientes del Ejérin the Salvadoran Army. The cito Salvadoreño . A discreción members of the Mission shall wear del Jefe de la Misión los miembros either the uniform of the United de la Misión usarán el uniforme de

States Army Air Forces or of the las Fuerzas Aéreas del Ejército de

Salvadoran Army to which they los Estados Unidos de América o

shall be entitled, at the discretion del Ejército Salvadoreño a que of the Chief of the Mission, but tengan derecho , pero tendrán pre-

Benefits and privi leges.

shall have precedence over all cedencia sobre todos los oficiales Salvadoran officers of the same salvadoreños de igual grado . rank .
ARTICLE 10. Each member of ARTICULO 10. Cada miembro de the Mission shall be entitled to all la Misión tendrá derecho a todos

benefits and privileges which the los beneficios y privilegios que el

Regulations of the Salvadoran Air Reglamento de las Fuerzas Aéreas

Force provide for Salvadoran offi- Salvadoreñas disponga para ofi-

cers and subordinate personnel of ciales y subalternos salvadoreños

tioDniss.ciplinary regula-

corresponding rank.

de grado correspondiente.

ARTICLE 11. The personnel of ARTICULO 11. El personal de la

the Mission shall be governed by Misión se regirá por el reglamento

the disciplinary regulations of the disciplinario de las Fuerzas Aéreas United States Army Air Forces . del Ejército de los Estados Unidos.
de América .

61 STAT. ] EL SALVADOR-MILITARY AVIATION MISSION-AUG. 19, 1947

3005

TITLE IV

TITULO IV

Compensation and Perquisites

Remuneración y Obvenciones

ARTICLE 12. Members of the ARTICULO 12. Los miembros de Mission shall receive from the la Misión recibirán del Gobierno

Government of the Republic of El de la República de El Salvador la Salvador such net annual com- remuneración neta anual que pensation as may be agreed upon acuerden el Gobierno de los Estabetween the Government of the dos Unidos de América y el United States of America and the Gobierno de la República de El Government of the Republic of El Salvador para cada miembro . La Salvador for each member. This remuneración se pagará en doce compensation shall be paid in ( 12 ) mensualidades iguales que twelve ( 12 ) equal monthly instal- vencerán y se pagarán el día último ments, each due and payable on de cada mes . La remuneración no the last day of the month. The estará sujeta a impuesto alguno

compensation shall not be subject que al presente o en adelante im-

to any tax, now or hereafter in ponga el Gobierno de la República

effect, of the Government of the de El Salvador o alguna de sus

Republic of El Salvador or of any subdivisiones políticas o adminis-

of its political or administrative trativas. Sin embargo, si al pre-

subdivisions . Should there, how- sente o durante la vigencia de

ever, at present or while this este Convenio existieren impues-

Agreement is in effect, be any tos que puedan afectar a esta

taxes that might affect this com- remuneración, tales impuestos se-

pensation, such taxes shall be rán sufragados por el Ministro de

borne by the Minister of Defense Defensa de la República de El

of the Republic of El Salvador in Salvador a fin de cumplir con la

order to comply with the provision disposición de este Artículo al

of this Article that the compensa- efecto de que la remuneración que

tion agreed upon shall be net .

se convenga sea neta .

ARTICLE 13. The compensation ARTICULO 13. La remuneración

agreed upon as indicated in the que se convenga según se indica

preceding Article shall commence en el Artículo precedente comen-

upon the date of departure from zará a devengarse desde la fecha

the United States of America of en que cada miembro de la Misión

each member of the Mission , and , parta de los Estados Unidos de

except as otherwise expressly pro- América y, salvo lo que expresa-

vided in this Agreement, shall con- mente se disponga en contrario en

tinue, following the termination of este Convenio , continuará deven-

duty with the Mission , for the gándose después de terminadas

return voyage to the United States sus funciones con la Misión mienof America and thereafter for the tras dure el viaje de regreso a los

period of any accumulated leave Estados Unidos de América y,

which may be due.

además , el período de licencia

acumulada a que tenga derecho . ARTICLE 14. The compensation ARTICULO 14. La remuneración

due for the period of the return que se adeude por la duración del trip and accumulated leave shall viaje de regreso y por la licencia be paid to a detached member of acumulada se pagará al miembro

Tax exemption.

3006

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

the Mission before his departure retirado de la Misión antes de su

from the Republic of El Salvador , partida de la República de El

and such payment shall be com- Salvador, y el pago se calculará

puted for travel by the shortest a base de viaje por la ruta más

usually traveled route to the port corta generalmente usada hasta el

of entry in the United States of puerto de entrada a los Estados

America, regardless of the route Unidos de América, cualquiera que

and method of travel used by the sea la ruta y el sistema de trans-

member of the Mission.

porte que utilice el miembro de la

Travel accommodations.

Misión. ARTICLE 15. Each member of ARTICULO 15. Se proveerá the Mission and each dependent para cada miembro de la Misión

member of his family shall be pro- y para cada miembro dependiente

vided with first-class accommoda- de su familia pasaje de primera

tions for travel required and per- clase para el viaje que se requiera

formed under this Agreement by y se efectúe conforme a este Conthe shortest usually traveled route venio por la ruta más corta genebetween the port of embarkation ralmente usada entre el puerto de in the United States of America embarque en los Estados Unidos and his official residence in the de América y su residencia oficial Republic of El Salvador, and from en la República de El Salvador, y his official residence in the Re- desde su residencia oficial en la

public of El Salvador to the port República de El Salvador al puerto of debarkation in the United de desembarco en los Estados States of America. Each mem- Unidos de América . Se reembolber of the Mission shall be reim- sarán a cada miembro de la

bursed for the expenses of ship- Misión los gastos de embarque de ment of his household effects and sus efectos caseros y equipaje. baggage. Such reimbursement Tal reembolso incluirá todo gasto

shall include all necessary expenses necesario incidental a su descarga incident to unloading from the del vapor a la llegada a la Resteamer upon arrival in the Re- pública de El Salvador, el acarreo public of El Salvador, carting be- desde el vapor hasta la residencia tween the ship and the residence en la República de El Salvador y in the Republic of El Salvador, el embalaje y carga a bordo del and packing and loading on board vapor a la partida de la República the steamer upon departure from de El Salvador . El costo de este hoSlhdiepfmfeecntst, oetfc.house- the Republic of El Salvador. The transporte para los miembros de la cost of this transportation for Misión, los miembros dependienmembers of the Mission, depend- tes de sus familias, y sus efectos ent members of their families, and caseros y equipaje será sufragado their household effects and bag- por los Estados Unidos de Amé-

gage shall be borne by the Gov- rica. El transporte de dichos efecernment of the United States of tos caseros y equipaje se efecAmerica. Transportation of such tuará en un solo embarque y todo household effects and baggage embarque subsiguiente será por

shall be effected in one shipment , cuenta de los respectivos miem-

and all subsequent shipments shall bros de la Misión , excepto cuando be at the expense of the respective se disponga de otro modo en este

members of the Mission except as Convenio , o cuando dichos em-

61 STAT. ] EL SALVADOR-MILITARY AVIATION MISSION-AUG. 19, 1947

3007

otherwise provided in this Agree- barques sean necesarios por cirment, or when such shipments are cunstancias ajenas a su voluntad .

necessitated by circumstances beyond their control.
ARTICLE 16. The Government

ARTICULO 16.

A solicitud

del

Exemption from customs duties.

of the Republic of El Salvador Jefe de la Misión , el Gobierno de shall grant, upon request of the la República de El Salvador exi-

Chief of the Mission, exemption mirá del pago de derechos de

from customs duties on articles aduana los artículos que se im-

imported for the official use of the porten para el uso oficial de la

Mission or the personal use of the Misión o para el uso personal de

members thereof and of members of their families .
ARTICLE 17. Compensation for transportation and traveling ex-

los miembros de la misma y de sus familias .
ARTICULO 17. El Gobierno de la República de El Salvador re-

Compensation for
transportation and traveling expenses in El Salvador.

penses in the Republic of El Sal- embolsará los gastos de transporte

vador on official business of the y de viaje en la República de El

Government of the Republic of Salvador cuando se trate de asun-

El Salvador shall be provided by tos oficiales del Gobierno de la

the Government of the Republic República de El Salvador , de con-

of El Salvador in accordance with formidad con las disposiciones del

the provisions of Article 10.

Artículo 10.

ARTICLE 18. The Government ARTICULO 18. El Gobierno de

Ante, p. 3004.
Provision of automobile, etc.

of the Republic of El Salvador la República de El Salvador pro-

shall provide the Chief of the porcionará al Jefe de la Misión Mission with a suitable automo- un automóvil con chófer, para

bile with chauffeur, for use on uso oficial. El Gobierno de la

official business . Suitable motor República de El Salvador , a solitransportation with chauffeur, citud, proporcionará automóviles and when necessary an airplane con chófer, y cuando sea necesario , properly equipped, shall on call un aeroplano debidamente provisbe made available by the Govern- to para el uso de los miembros de ment of the Republic of El Salva- la Misión en el desempeño de dor for use by the members of the funciones oficiales de la Misión. Mission for the conduct of the official business of the Mission.
ARTICLE 19. The Government ARTICULO 19. El Gobierno de

Airplane. Office space, etc.

of the Republic of El Salvador la República de El Salvador pro-

shall provide suitable office space veerá local adecuado para oficinas

and facilities for the use of the y facilidades para uso de los

members of the Mission.

miembros de la Misión .

ARTICLE 20. If any member of

ARTICULO 20. Si algún miembro

Transportation remains in case

of of

the Mission, or any of his family, de la Misión o algún miembro de death.

should die in the Republic of El su familia falleciere en la Repúbli-

Salvador, the Government of the ca de El Salvador , el Gobierno de

Republic of El Salvador shall have la República de El Salvador hará

the body transported to such place trasladar el cadáver hasta el lugar in the United States of America en los Estados Unidos de América

as the surviving members of the que los parientes sobrevivientes family may decide, but the cost indiquen, pero el costo, para el

3008

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

to the Government of the Repub- Gobierno de la República de El lic of El Salvador shall not exceed Salvador, no excederá del costo de

the cost of transporting the re- trasladar los restos desde el lugar mains from the place of decease to del fallecimiento hasta la ciudad New York City. Should the de- de Nueva York. Si el extinto fuere ceased be a member of the Mission, miembro de la Misión , se consihis services with the Mission shall derará que sus servicios en ella be considered to have terminated terminaron quince (15 ) días desfifteen (15 ) days after his death . pués de su muerte . Los gastos de Return transportation to New regreso a la ciudad de Nueva York York City for the family of the para la familia del miembro falledeceased member and for their cido, su equipaje y sus efectos

Ante, p. 3006. Compensation due deceased member.

baggage and household effects domésticos se sufragarán como se shall be provided as prescribed in dispone en el Artículo 15. Toda Article 15. All compensation due remuneración que se adeude al the deceased member, including miembro fallecido , inclusive su salary for fifteen (15 ) days subse- sueldo por los quince ( 15 ) días quent to his death, and reimburse- siguientes a su muerte, y el rement for expenses and transporta- embolso de gastos y transporte en tion due the deceased member for viajes realizados en asuntos oficiatravel performed on official busi- les de la República de El Salvaness of the Republic of El Salva- dor se pagarán a la viuda del dor, shall be paid to the widow of miembro fallecido o a la persona the deceased member or to any que el extinto haya designado por other person who may have been escrito mientras prestaba sus servidesignated in writing by the de- cios de conformidad con los térmiceased while serving under the nos de este Convenio ; pero no se

terms of this Agreement ; but such pagará a la viuda ni a la otra widow or other person shall not be persona por la licencia a que compensated for accrued leave due tuviere derecho y no tomada por and not taken by the deceased . el finado. Toda remuneración que All compensations due the widow, de conformidad con las disposior other person designated by the ciones de este Artículo se adeude a deceased, under the provisions of la viuda o a la otra persona desigthis Article, shall be paid within nada por el finado, se pagará

fifteen ( 15) days after the decease dentro del plazo de quince (15 )

of the said member.

días después de la muerte de dicho

miembro .

TITLE V

TITULO V

Requisites and Conditions

Requisitos y Condiciones

Services of personnel of other foreign
gtioovne.rnments, restric-

ARTICLE 21. So long as this ARTICULO 21. Durante la vigenAgreement, or any extension there- cia de este Convenio o de su proof, is in effect, the Government of rrogación , el Gobierno de la Repú-

the Republic of El Salvador shall blica de El Salvador no contratará

not engage the services of any per- los servicios de personal de ningún

sonnel of any other foreign govern- otro gobierno extranjero para fun-

ment for duties of any nature con- ciones de naturaleza alguna relanected with the Salvadoran Air cionadas con las Fuerzas Aéreas

Force, except by mutual agreement Salvadoreñas , excepto mediante

61 STAT. ] EL SALVADOR- MILITARY AVIATION MISSION-AUG. 19, 1947

3009

between the Government of the acuerdo entre el Gobierno de los

United States of America and the Estados Unidos de América y el

Government of the Republic El Salvador.
ARTICLE 22. Each member

of Gobierno de la República de El Salvador.
of ARTICULO 22. Todo miembro de

Secrecy requirement.

the Mission shall agree not to la Misión se compromete a no

divulge or in any way disclose to divulgar ni a revelar, por ningún

any foreign government or to any medio, a gobierno extranjero algu-

person whatsoever any secret or no, o a persona alguna, ningún

confidential matter of which he secreto ni asunto confidencial que

may become cognizant in his pueda llegar a su conocimiento en

capacity as a member of the Mis- su calidad de miembro de la

sion. This requirement shall con- Misión. Este requisito continua-

tinue in force after the termination rá en vigor después de terminar

of service with the Mission and sus servicios en la Misión y des-

after the expiration or cancellation pués de la expiración o cancelación

of this Agreement or any extension del presente Convenio o de su

thereof.

prorrogación .

ARTICLE 23. Throughout this ARTICULO 23. En este Convenio

"Family."

Agreement the term "family" is se entenderá que el término "fami-

limited to mean wife and depend- lia" sólo comprende a la esposa y a

ent children .

los hijos menores.

ARTICLE 24. Each member of ARTICULO 24. Todo miembro

Annual leave.

the Mission shall be entitled to de la Misión tendrá derecho anualone month's annual leave with mente a un mes de licencia con

pay, or to a proportional part sueldo , o a una parte proporcional thereof with pay for any frac- de dicha licencia con sueldo por tional part of a year. Unused cada fracción de un año . La

portions of said leave shall be parte de dicha licencia que no se

cumulative from year to year use podrá acumularse de año en

during service as a member of the año mientras la persona preste

Mission.

sus servicios como miembro de la

Misión.

ARTICLE 25. The leave speci- ARTICULO 25. La licencia que

fied in the preceding Article may se estipula en el Artículo prece-

be spent in the Republic of El dente podrá disfrutarse en la

Salvador, in the United States of República de El Salvador, en los

America, or in any other coun- Estados Unidos de América, o en

tries , but the expense of travel and cualquiera otro país, pero los

transportation not otherwise pro- gastos de viaje y de transporte

vided for in this Agreement shall que no se dispongan de otro modo

be borne by the member of the en este Convenio serán sufragados

Mission taking such leave. All por el miembro de la Misión que

travel time shall count as leave tome la licencia. Todo el tiempo.

and shall not be in addition to the consumido en viajar se contará

time authorized in the preceding como parte de la licencia, y no se

Article.

añadirá al tiempo que se autoriza

en el Artículo precedente .

3010

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ARTICLE 26. The Government ARTICULO 26. El Gobierno de

of the Republic of El Salvador la República de El Salvador conagrees to grant the leave specified viene en conceder la licencia es-

in Article 24 upon receipt of writ- tipulada en el Artículo 24 , al ten application, approved by the recibir una solicitud por escrito Chief of the Mission with due con ese objeto , aprobada por el

consideration for the convenience Jefe de la Misión , con la debida

of the Government of the Republic consideración a la conveniencia

of El Salvador.

del Gobierno de la República de

Termination of serv-
ices of replaced members.

El Salvador. ARTICLE 27. Members of the ARTICULO 27. Los miembros de
Mission who may be replaced shall la Misión a quienes se reemplace terminate their services on the terminarán sus servicios en la

Medical attention.

Mission only upon the arrival of Misión solamente cuando lleguen their replacements , except when sus reemplazos , excepto cuando otherwise mutually agreed upon los dos Gobiernos acuerden de in advance by the respective antemano lo contrario. Governments .
ARTICLE 28. The Government ARTICULO 28. El Gobierno de la

of the Republic of El Salvador República de El Salvador proshall provide suitable medical at- porcionará atención médica adetention to members of the Mission cuada a los miembros de la Misión

and their families. In case a mem- y a sus familias. En caso de que ber of the Mission becomes ill or un miembro de la Misión se

suffers injury, he shall , at the enferme o sufra lesiones se le discretion of the Chief of the Mis- hospitalizará, a discreción del Jefe sion, be placed in such hospital as de la Misión , en el hospital que el the Chief of the Mission deems Jefe de la Misión considere ade-

suitable, after consultation with cuado después de consultar con el the Minister of Defense of the Ministro de Defensa de la Re-

Republic of El Salvador, and all pública de El Salvador ; y todos expenses incurred as the result of los gastos en que se incurra a such illness or injury while the consecuencia de dicha enfermedad patient is a member of the Mission o lesiones mientras el paciente sea and remains in the Republic of El miembro de la Misión y perma-

Salvador shall be paid by the Gov- nezca en la República de El Salvaernment of El Salvador. If the dor, serán sufragados por el Gohospitalized member is a commis- bierno de El Salvador. Si el

sioned officer he shall pay his cost miembro de la Misión hospitaliof subsistence, but if he is an en- zado es un oficial pagará sus gastos listed man the cost of subsistence de subsistencia, pero si pertenece

shall be paid by the Government al personal subalterno el costo de of the Republic of El Salvador. subsistencia será sufragado por el Families shall enjoy the same Gobierno de la República de El privileges agreed upon in this Salvador. Las familias gozarán de Article for members of the Mis- los mismos privilegios que dispone sion, except that a member of the este Artículo para los miembros de Mission shall in all cases pay the la Misión , excepto que un miembro cost of subsistence incident to de la Misión pagará en todos y hospitalization of a member of his cada uno de los casos los gastos de

61 STAT.] EL SALVADOR-MILITARY AVIATION MISSION- AUG. 19, 1947

3011

family , except as may be provided subsistencia relacionados con la

under Article 10.

hospitalización de los miembros de

Ante, p. 3004.

su familia, excepto como se dispone en el Artículo 10 . ARTICLE 29. Any member of ARTICULO 29. Todo miembro
the Mission unable to perform his de la Misión que no pueda desemduties with the Mission by reason peñar sus funciones a causa de

Replacement in case of disability.

of long-continued physical disa- prolongada incapacidad física será

bility shall be replaced .

reemplazado .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the un- EN FE DE LO CUAL, los infrasdersigned, Robert A. Lovett, Act- critos , Robert A. Lovett, Secreing Secretary of State of the tario de Estado Interino de los

United States of America, and Estados Unidos de América, y Carlos A. Siri, Chargé d'Affaires Carlos A. Siri, Encargado de ad interim of the Republic of El Negocios ad Interim de la RepúSalvador at Washington, duly blica de El Salvador en Washingauthorized thereto, have signed ton, debidamente autorizados para this Agreement in duplicate, in ello, firman este Convenio en the English and Spanish lan- duplicado , en los idiomas inglés y guages, at Washington , this nine- español, en Wáshington , el día teenth day of August, one thou- diez y nueve de agosto de mil sand nine hundred forty-seven. novecientos cuarenta y siete .

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : POR EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA :
ROBERT A LOVETT

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR : POR EL GOBIERNO DE LA REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR:
CARLOS A SIRI

3012

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Feb[Tru.aIr.yA1.9 aSn.d12683,51]947

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting intergovernmental claims, interpreting the agreement of March 27, 1946. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington February 19 and 28, 1947; entered into force February 28, 1947.

The Secretary of State to the British Ambassador

60 Stat. 1525, 1564. 60 Stat. 1536.
Espoused claims.

EXCELLENCY :

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON Feb 19, 1947

I have the honor to refer to the "Agreement on Settlement of

Intergovernmental Claims", which was one of the specific Agreements between the British Government and the United States Government

signed on March 27 , 1946 , pursuant to the Joint Statement of December 6 , 1945 , Regarding Settlement for Lend-Lease, Reciprocal Aid, Surplus War Property, and Claims . Paragraph 6 of the Agreement provides "that all financial claims whatsoever of one Government

against the other which (a) arose out of lend-lease or reciprocal aid, or (b) otherwise arose on or after September 3 , 1939 and prior to September 2 , 1945 out of or incidental to the conduct of World War II ,

and which are not otherwise dealt with in the Agreements concluded this day, are hereby waived , and neither Government will hereafter raise or pursue any such claims against the other."

A question has been raised as to whether the expression "all financial claims whatsoever of one Government against the other which (a) arose out of lend -lease or reciprocal aid , or (b) otherwise arose on or after September 3 , 1939 and prior to September 2 , 1945 out of or incidental to the conduct of World War II" is properly interpreted

as applying to claims submitted in accordance with the practice whereby one government espouses a claim of one of its nationals and

presents it through diplomatic channels to another government. After consideration of the general purposes of the waiver of claims provision and of the discussions leading to the adoption of that provision, the Department has concluded that the proper interpretation of the Agreement is that such espoused claims are not properly included among the financial claims covered by the Agreement .
I would appreciate being advised whether your Government concurs in this interpretation.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

For the Secretary of State : DEAN ACHESON
His Excellency The Right Honorable THE LORD INVERCHAPEL, P.C. , G.C.M.G. , British Ambassador.

61 STAT.] UNITED KINGDOM- INTERGOVERNMENTAL CLAIMS-FEB. 19, 28, 1947 3013

The British Ambassador to the Secretary of State

No. 95 Ref. 4171/6/47

BRITISH EMBASSY, WASHINGTON
February 28th, 1947

SIR :

I have the honour to refer to Mr. Acheson's note of February 19th in which he gave an interpretation of paragraph 6 of the "Agreement on Settlement of Intergovernmental Claims" which was signed by representatives of His Majesty's Government and the United States Government on March 27th, 1946.
I am pleased to inform you that His Majesty's Government concur in the interpretation presented in Mr. Acheson's note.
I have the honour to be with the highest consideration Sir , Your most obedient humble Servant INVERCHAPEL

The Honourable GEORGE C. MARSHALL, Secretary of State, Department of State, Washington, D.C.

60 Stat. 1536.

95347°-49- PT. III- -47

3014

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

June 17 and 27 , 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1636]

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting marine transportation and litigation , modifying the agreement ofDecember 4, 1942. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington June 17 and 27, 1947; entered into force June 27, 1947.

The British Ambassador to the Secretary of State

Ref: 4273/6/47 No. 345

56 Stat. 1780. 60 Stat. 1915.

His Majesty's Ambassador presents his compliments to the Secretary of State and has the honour to inform him that, as the result of discussions between the Treasury Solicitor of the United Kingdom and the Attorney General of the United States concerning the further modification of the Agreement signed in London on the 4th December, 1942, regarding mutual aid in matters of marine transportation and litigation, previously modified by the notes exchanged on the 25th March and the 7th May, 1946 , His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland are prepared to enter into an agreement with the Government of the United States on the following terms :-

For the purpose of the said Agreement, all cargoes belonging to or at the risk of either contracting Government shipped on board vessels belonging to or at the risk of the other contracting Government which are laden on board such vessels sailing at or after midnight 30th June, 1947, shall be considered in all respects as if the cargo were privately owned ; and the provisions of the said Agreement shall cease to apply to such cargoes.

2. His Majesty's Ambassador therefore desires to suggest that if the above-mentioned provision meets with the concurrence of the Gov-

ernment of the United States, this memorandum and the Secretary

of State's reply to that effect shall be considered as constituting an Agreement between the two Governments in this matter.
BRITISH EMBASSY,

F.V.C.

WASHINGTON, D.C. June 17th, 1947.

56 Stat. 1780.

The Secretary of State to the British Ambassador
The Secretary of State presents his compliments to His Excellency the British Ambassador and has the honor to acknowledge the receipt of his note No. 345 of June 17 , 1947 proposing a further modification of the Agreement signed in London on December 4 , 1942 concerning mutual aid in matters of marine transportation and litigation and

61 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM-MARINE TRANSPORTATION JUNE 17, 27, 1947

3015

subsequently modified by an exchange of notes dated March 25 and May 7, 1946. The further modification proposed is in the following terms :
"For the purpose of the said Agreement, all cargoes belonging to or at the risk of either contracting Government shipped on board vessels belonging to or at the risk of the other contracting Government which are laden on board such vessels sailing at or after midnight 30th June, 1947 , shall be considered in all respects as if the cargo were privately owned ; and the provisions of the said Agreement shall cease to apply to such cargoes . "
The proposed modification is acceptable to the Government of the United States , and this note and the British Ambassador's note under reference shall be considered as constituting an Agreement between the two Governments on the matter.

60 Stat. 1915.

Department of STATE, Washington, June 27, 1947.

411.41 Ships/6-1747

RTY

61 STAT.]

GREECE-RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JULY 8, 1947

3017

Agreement between the United States of America and Greece respecting relief assistance. Signed at Athens July 8, 1947; entered into force July 8, 1947.

July 8, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1637]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE KINGDOM OF GREECE CONCERNING THE UNITED STATES RELIEF ASSISTANCE TO THE GREEK PEOPLE

                        

3018

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE KINGDOM OF GREECE CONCERNING THE UNITED STATES RELIEF ASSISTANCE TO THE GREEK PEOPLE
WHEREAS , it is the desire of the United States of America to provide relief assistance to the Greek people to prevent suffering and to permit them to continue effectively their efforts toward recovery; and

Authority for providing assistance.
61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 125.

WHEREAS , the Greek Government has requested the United States Government for relief assistance and has presented information which convinces the Government of the United States that the Greek Government urgently needs assistance in obtaining the basic essentials of life for the people of Greece; and
WHEREAS , the United States Congress has by Public Law 84 , 80th Congress , May 31 , 1947, authorized the pro-
vision

61 STAT.]

GREECE-RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JULY 8, 1947

3019

                       
,                ,                 ·
 +             ,                            
 ,          . 84   80  ,  31 
1947

3020

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

vision of relief assistance to the people of those countries which , in the determination of the President , need such assistance and have given satisfactory assurances covering the relief program as required by the 'Ast of Congress ; and
WHEREAS , the United States Government and the Greek Government desire to define certain conditions and understandings concerning the handling and distribution of the United States relief supplies and to establish the general lines of their cooperation in meeting the relief needs of the Greek people;

Types, quantities, etc.

The Government of the United States of America represented by the Honorable Lincoln MacVeagh and the Government of the Kingdom of Greece represented by His Excellency Demetrios Maximos have agreed as follows :
ARTICLE I Furnishing of Supplies.
(a) The program of assistance to be furnished shall

61 STAT.]

GREECE- RELIEF ASSISTANCE- JULY 8, 1947

3021

1947 ,             ,        ,                     .
, 4      4                                       .
        '             ,    :
    .
()        

3022

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

61 Stat., Pt. 1 , p. 125.
No claim for pay. ment.
Post. p. 3032.

shall consist of such types and quantities of supplies , and procurement , storage , transportation and shipping services related thereto , as may be determined from time to time by the United States Government after consultation with the Greek Government in accordance with Public Law 84 , 80th Congress , May 31 , 1947, and any acts amendatory or supplementary thereto . Such supplies shall be confined to certain basic essentials of life, namely, food, medical supplies , processed and unprocessed material for clothing , fertilizers , pesticides , fuel , and seeds .
(b) Subject to the provisions of Article III the United States Government will make no request , and will have no claim, for payment for United States relief supplies and services furnished under this Agreement.
(c ) The

61 STAT. ]

GREECE RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JULY 8, 1947

3023

       ,       ,  ,                           . 84 ,  80  ,  31  1947       .          ,   ,   ,       ,  ,  ,   ,   .
()        3 4                            .
() 

3024

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Procurement, etc.

(o) The United States Government agencies

will provide for the procurement , storage , transportation and shipment to Greece of United States relief supplies , except to the extent that the United States Govern:ient may authorize other means for the perform

ance of these services in accordance with procedures stipulated by the United States Government . All United

States relief supplies shall be procured in the United

Submission of proposed programs.

States except when specific approval for procurement outside the United States is given by the United States Government .
( d) The Greek Government will from time to time submit in advance to the United States Government

its proposed programs for relief import requirements . These programs shall be subject to screening and approval

by the United States Government and procurement shall be

authorized only for items contained in the approved

programs .

(e ) Transfers

61 STAT.]

GREECE- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JULY 8, 1947

3025

() '         ,         ,                                  .                                .
()                           .                  ,             .
( ) 

3026

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

(0)

Transfers of sup plies .

Transfers of United States relief supplies' shall be made under arrangements to be determined by the United States Government in consultation with the Greek Government . The United States Government , whenever it deems it desirable , may retain possession of any United States relief supplies , or may recover possession of such supplies transferred up to the city or local community where such supplies are made available to the ultimate consumers .
ARTICLE II Distribution of Supplies in Greece .
(a ) All United States relief supplies shall be distributed by the Greek Government under the direct supervision and control of the United States representatives and in accordance with the terms of this Agreement . The distribution shall be through commercial channels to the extent feasible and desirable .
(b ) All

61 STAT. ]

GREECE-RELIEF ASSISTANCE- JULY 8, 1947

3027

( )                       .        ,     ,          ,                         .
 2      .
()                                .               .
(  ) 

3028

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Fiscal charges. Post, p. 3032.

(b ) All United States relief supply imports shall be free of fiscal charges including customs duties up to the point where they are sold for local currency as provided by Article III of this Agreement unless when because of price practices , it is advisable to include customs charges or government taxes in prices fixed , in which case the amount thus collected on United States relief supply imports shall accrue to the special account referred to in Article 1IJ. All United States relief supply imports given free to indigents , institutions and others shall be free of fiscal charges , including customs duties .

Liaison.

(0) The Greek Government will designate a

high ranking official who shall have the responsibi-

lity of liaison between the Greek Government and the

United States representatives responsible for the

relief program.

(a ) The

61 STAT.]

GREECE- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JULY 8, 1947

3029

( )                                3    ,                    ,                         " 3.          ,      ,     -

      . ()      
                      

  .

() 

95347° -49- PT. III- 48

3030

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Restrictions on distribution.

(a) The Greek Government will distribute United States relief supplies and similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources , without discrimination as to race , creed , or political belief , and will not permit the diversion of any of such supplies to non- essential uses or for export or removal from the country while need there for relief purposes continues . The Greek Government will not permit the diversion of an excessive amount of united States relief supplies and similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources to assist in the maintenance of armed forces .
(e) The Greek Government will so conduct the distribution of United States relief supplies and similar supplies produced locally and imported from outside sources as to assure à fair and equitable share of the supplies to all classes of the people throughout Greece .
(1) A

61 STAT. ]

GREECE-RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JULY 8, 1947

3031

()              ·       ,     ,   ,     ,                               .                               .
()                                            .
() 

3032

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Ration and price controls.

(f) A ration and price control system shall be maintained and the distribution shall be so conducted that all classes of the population , irrespective of purchasing power , shall receive their fair share of supplies covered in this Agreement .

Prices.
Deposit oflocal currency .

ARTICLE III Utilization of Funds Accruing from Sales of United States Supplies . (a) The prices at which the United States supplies shall be sold in Greece shall be agreed upon between the United States Government and the Greek Government . (b) When United States relief supplies are sold for local currency , the amount of such local currency shall be deposited by the Greek Government in a special account in the name of the Greek Government .
(0) Until

61 STAT. ]

GREECE-RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JULY 8, 1947

3033

(  )            ,               ,       ,                 .
 3              .
( ) '                       .
()              ,                      .
() 

3034

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Disposition.

(C) Until June 30 , 1948 , such funds shall be disposed of only upon approval of the duly authorized representative of the United States Government for relief and work relief purposes within Greece , including local currency expenses of the united States incident to the furnishing of relief . Any unencumbered balance remaining in such account on June 30 , 1948 , shall be disposed of within Greece for such purposes as the United States Government , pursuant to Aot or Joint Resolution of Congress , may determine.

Advances by Greek Government.
Unusual costs.

(a) The Greek Government will upon request advance funds to the United States representatives to meet local currency expenses incident to the furnishing of relief.
(e) While it is not intended that the funds accruing from sales of the United States relief supplies normally shall be used to defray the local expenses of
the Greek

61 STAT.] GREECE-RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JULY 8, 1947

3035

()   30  , 1948 ,                   ,                              .            30  , 1948 ,                ,   4     .
(  )     ,                           .
( )  '                     


3036

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

the Greek Government in handling and distributing the United States relief supplies , including local currency costs of discharging cargo and other port charges , the United States representative shall consider with the Greek Government the use of the funds to cover the unusual costs which would place an undue burden on the Greek Government .

Repo ts.
Disposition offunds accruing from sales.

(f) The Greek Government will each month make available to the United States representatives reports on collections , balances , and expenditures from the fund .
( g ) The Greek Government will assign officials to confer and plan with the United States representatives regarding the disposition of funds accruing from sales to assure a prompt and proper use of such funds .

ARTICLE IV

61 STAT. ]

GREECE- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JULY 8, 1947

                ,              ,                              .
()                    ,  ,      .
(  )                                      .
 4

3037

3038

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

ARTICLE IV Effective Production , Food Collections and Use of Resources to Reduce Relief Needs .

Locally produced supplies.

(a ) The Greek Government will exert all possible efforts to secure the maximum production and collection of locally produced supplies needed for relief purposes .
(b) The Greek Government will undertake not to permit any measures to be taken involving delivery , sale or granting of any articles of the character covered in this Agreement which would reduce the locally produced supply of such articles and thereby increase the burden of relief.

Information regarding plans, etc.

(c ) The Greek Government will furnish re-

gularly current information to the United States re-

presentatives regarding plans and progress in achiev-

ing this objective .

(a ) The

61 STAT.]

GREECE- RELIEF ASSISTANCE- JULY 8, 1947

 4

*  ,        

   .

( )      

               .

()                  ,  ,  

           ,            , 

       .

()     

      

        

  .

(8 ) H

3039

3040

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

(a) The Greek Government affirms that it has taken and is taking in so far as possible , the economic measures necessary to reduce its relief needs and to provide for its own future reconstruction.

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 125.

ARTICLE V United States Representatives .
(a) The United States Government will send to Greece the representatives required to discharge responsibilities of the United States Government under this Agreement and the Public Law 84 , 80th Congress , May 31 , 1947. The Greek Government will permit and facilitate the movement of the United States representatives to, in or from Greece.

Freedom of supervision, etc.

(b ) The Greek Government will permit and facilitate in every way the freedom of the United States representatives to supervise , inspect , report
and

61 STAT.]

GREECE-RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JULY 8, 1947

3041

( )          ,      ,                '      .
 5     .
( )                                  .84 ,  80  ,  31  1947.                 ,  ,     .
()                    ,  ,
· 

3042

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Automobile transportation.

and travel throughout Greece at any and all times , and will cooperate fully with them in carrying out all of the provisions of this agreement . The Greek Government will furnish the necessary automobile transportation to permit the United States representatives to travel freely throughout Greece and without delay.

Privileges and immunities.

(c ) The United States representatives and the property of the mission and of its personnel shall enjoy in Greece the same privileges and immunities as are enjoyed by the personnel of the United States Embassy in Greece and the property of the Embassy and of its personnel .
ARTICLE VI Freedom of United States Press and Hadio Representatives to Observe and Report .

The Greek Government will permit representa tives of the United States press and radio to observe
freely

61 STAT. ]

GREECE-RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JULY 8, 1947

3043

        '   ,      '            .         '                       .
()                   .                 *              .
APOPON 6             '  .
             
vá

3044

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

freely and report fully and without censorship regarding the distribution and utilization of relief supplies and the use of funds accruing from sale of United States relief supplies .

Maintenance.
Information concerning production, etc.

ARTICLE VII Reports , Statistics and Information.
(a ) The Greek Government will maintain adequate statistical and other records on relief and will consult with the United States representatives , upon their request , with regard to the maintenance of such records .

(b) The Greek Government will furnish

promptly upon request of the United States repre-

sentatives information concerning the production , use , distribution , importation , and exportation of any supplies which effect the relief needs of the

people .

(0) In

61 STAT. ]

GREECE- RELIEF ASSISTANCE -JULY 8, 1947

3045

       

           ,               

 .

 7

 ,    .

(a)      

       , 

       

 ,    ,         .

( )               ,     ,  ,  ,               .

(y) ' Ev {

95347° -49- PT. III- 49

3046

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

30

Abuses or viola tions.

(c) In case United States representatives report apparent abuses or violations of this Agreement , the Greek Government will investigate and report and promptly take such remedial action as is necessary to correct such abuses or violations as are found to exist .

ARTICLE VIII Publicity Regarding United States Assistance .
(a ) The Greek Government will permit and arrange full and continuous publicity regarding the purpose , source , character , scope , amounts and progress of the United States relief program in Greece , including the utilization of funds accruing from sales of United States relief supplies for the benefit of the people.

Marking, etc., of supplies.

(b) All United States relief supplies and any articles processed from such supplies , or con-
tainers

61 STAT.]

GREECE- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JULY 8, 1947

3047

()                    ,         ,                    .
 8       .
( )                 ,   ,   ,    ,   ,           ,                   .
(  )              


3048

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

tainers of such supplies or articles , shall , to the extent practicable , be marked , stamped , branded , or labelled in a conspicuous place in such a manner as to indicate to the ultimate consumer that such supplies or articles have been furnished by the United States for relief assistance ; or if such supplies , articles or containers are incapable of being so marked , stamped , branded , or labelled , all practicable steps will be taken by the Greek Government to inform the ultimate consumer thereof that such supplies or articles have been furnished by the United States for relief assistance .

ARTICLE IX Termination of Relief Assistance .
The United States Government will terminate any or all of its relief assistance at any time whenever it determines ( 1 ) by reason of changed conditions ,
the

61 STAT.]

GREECE- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JULY 8, 1947

 ,            ,  ,       ,  ,  ,                                 '      ·  ,        ,  ,     ,    ,       ,              
·   ,     4           .
APOPON 9     .
                     : ( 1 ) 


3049

3050

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 125.

the provision of relief assistance of the character authorized by the Public Law 84 , 80th Congress , May 31, 1947, is no longer necessary ( 2 ) any provisions of this Agreement are not being carried out (3) an excessive amount of United States relief supplies , or of similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources , is being used to assist in the maintenance of armed forces in Greece, or ( 4 ) United States relief supplies or similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources are being exported or removed from Greece . The United States Government may stop or alter its program of assistance whenever in its determination other circumstances warrant such action.

ARTICLE X Date of Agreement .
This Agreement shall take effect as from this

61 STAT.]

GREECE-RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JULY 8, 1947

3051

               . 84 ,  8000  ,  31  1947     , ( 2 )          , ( 3 )        ,                   ,  (4)                     .                    ,     ,      .
 10    .
        

3052

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Duration.

day's date . it shall continue in force until a date to be agreed upon by the two Governments .
Done in duplicate in the English and Greek languages at Athens , this eighth day ofscola (s) July, 1947.

For the Government of the United States of America: -
Lwith Moedragh Lincoln MacVeagh
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary

yoola

For the Government of the Kingdom och of Greece : -
me. Maring Demetrios Maximos Prime Minister

1278YI2 varazs.Coll

& Goura H

61 STAT.]

GREECE- RELIEF ASSISTANCE-JULY 8, 1947

  .             .
          ,         , 1947 .
       : LinishYordrage  
 ' 
    .  :
    

3053

3054

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

March 18, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1638]

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting termination of the reciprocal trade agreement signed December 13, 1940, relating to fox furs and skins. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington March 18, 1947; entered into force March 18, 1947. And proclamation by the President of the United States of America terminating proclamations of December 18, 1940, and August 21, 1941, relating to the reciprocal trade agreement signed December 13, 1940; issued March 18 , 1947; effective May 1 , 1947.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Canadian Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

WASHINGTON

Fox furs and skins.
55 Stat. 1319. 19 U. S. C. § 1351 note.

EXCELLENCY :

March 18, 1947.

I have the honor to refer to the supplementary trade agreement

between the United States of America and Canada with respect

to fox furs and skins signed December 13 , 1940 and effective De-

cember 20, 1940, under which a quantitative restriction was imposed on imports of certain fox furs and skins into the United States and

55 Stat. 1324.

the rate of import duty was fixed at 35 percent ad valorem. That agreement was negotiated in the light of the emergency existing at that time with respect to marketing of silver or black fox furs and skins . Article VI thereof contains provisions looking toward the termination of the agreement in the event that the emergency con-

Proposed termination of agreement of Dec. 13, 1940.

ditions which had given rise to it should disappear. Since in the opinion of the Government of the United States of
America the emergency conditions referred to above no longer exist,

it is considered desirable to terminate the agreement relating to

fox-furs and skins in accordance with its terms. This note is, there-

fore, to record the understanding of our two Governments, reached

55 Stat. 1319.
19 U. S. C. § 1351 note.

during the recent conversations on the subject, that the agreement of December 13, 1940 relating to fox furs and skins shall be terminated in whole on May 1 , 1947. Such termination will result in removing

the quantitative limitations on imports into the United States of

silver or black fox furs and skins and the parts thereof and articles

made therefrom, and of certain silver or black foxes, and in restoring

to 37½ percent ad valorem the import duty on silver or black fox

53 Stat. 2389.

furs or skins provided for in item 1519 (c) of Schedule II of the trade agreement between the United States and Canada signed on November 17 , 1938 .

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
DEAN ACHESON

His Excellency HUME WRONG,

Acting Secretary of State

Ambassador of Canada.

61 STAT.] CANADA- RECIPROCAL TRADE-MAR. 18, 1947

3055

No. 80

The Canadian Ambassador to the Secretary of State CANADIAN EMBASSY
AMBASSADE DU CANADA
WASHINGTON, D.C. March 18, 1947.

SIR,

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your note of today's date, and to confirm the understanding set forth therein regarding the agreement between our two Governments to terminate

the supplementary Trade Agreement relating to fox furs and skins ,
signed December 13th, 1940. Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . HH WRONG

55 Stat. 1319. 19 U. S. C. § 1351 note.

The Honourable GEORGE C. MARSHALL , Secretary of State, Washington, D.C.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS , pursuant to the authority conferred by Section 350 (a)

of the Tariff Act of 1930 , as amended by the Act of June 12 , 1934

(48 Stat. 943 ; U.S.C. , 1940 ed . , title 19 , sec . 1351 (a) ) , the period

within which such authority may be exercised having been extended by Joint Resolution approved March 1 , 1937 (50 Stat. 24) , the President of the United States of America entered into a trade agree-
ment on November 17 , 1938 , through his duly empowered Plenipotentiary , with His Majesty the King of Great Britain , Ireland and the British dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of India, in

19 U. 8. C. § 1352,
53 Stat. 2348. 19 U. S. C. § 1351 note.

respect of Canada, through his duly empowered Plenipotentiary, which trade agreement was proclaimed on November 25, 1938 and

June 17, 1939 by the President, acting pursuant to the authority

conferred by the said Tariff Act of 1930 as amended ;

WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority conferred by said Section 350 (a) of the Tariff Act of 1930 , as amended, the period within which such authority may be exercised having been extended by Joint

48 Stat. 943. 19 U. S. C. § 1351 (a) .

Resolutions approved March 1 , 1937 (50 Stat . 24) and April 12 , 1940 (54 Stat . 107) , the President of the United States of America entered into a trade agreement on December 13 , 1940, through his duly empowered Plenipotentiary, with His Majesty the King of Great Britain, Ireland and the British dominions beyond the Seas,

19 U. S. C. § 1352.
55 Stat. 1319. 19 U. S. C. § 1351 note.

Emperor of India, in respect of Canada, through his duly empowered

Plenipotentiary, which agreement of December 13 , 1940 was proclaimed by the President on December 18 , 1940 and August 21 , 1941 ;

55 Stat. 1319, 1326.

3056

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

55 Stat. 1321.

WHEREAS Article I of the said trade agreement of December 13, 1940 provides as follows:

53 Stat. 2389.

"During the effectiveness of this Agreement, item 1519 (c) of

Schedule II of the trade agreement entered into between the

United States of America and Canada on November 17, 1938,

shall be suspended ·

";

55 Stat. 1324.

WHEREAS Article VI, paragraph 4, of the said trade agreement of December 13, 1940 provides that such agreement may be terminated at any time by agreement between the Governments of the two countries ;
WHEREAS Article VI, paragraph 5, of the said trade agreement of December 13, 1940 provides as follows:

53 Stat. 2389,

"5. Should the present Agreement be terminated in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Article, the provisions of item 1519 (c) of Schedule II of the trade agreement entered into between the United States of America and Canada on November
17, 1938, which have been suspended by this Agreement, shall thereupon automatically reenter into force. ";

WHEREAS the Government of the United States of America and

Ante, pp. 3054, 3055. the Government of Canada, by notes exchanged on March 18, 1947,

have agreed that the said trade agreement of December 13, 1940

Termination of designated proclamations, etc.
48 Stat. 943. 19 U. S. C. § 1351 (a).

shall be terminated in whole on May 1 , 1947; NOW, THEREFORE, be it known that I, Harry S. Truman, President
of the United States of America, acting pursuant to the authority conferred by Section 350 (a) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, do hereby proclaim that the effectiveness of said proclamations of

55 Stat. 1319, 1326. December 18, 1940 and August 21 , 1941 shall be terminated in whole

on May 1 , 1947, and that the provisions of item 1519 (c) of Schedule

II of the trade agreement entered into between the United States of

53 Stat. 2389.

America and Canada on November 17, 1938 shall reenter into force

on May 1 , 1947. IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.

DONE at the city of Washington this eighteenth day of March in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred

[SEAL]

forty-seven and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred seventy-first .
HARRY S TRUMAN

By the President: DEAN ACHESON Acting Secretary of State

61 STAT. ] SOUTH AFRICA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAY 23, 1947

3057

Agreement between the United States of America and the Union of South Africa respecting air transport services . Signed at Cape Town May 23, 1947; entered into force May 23, 1947. And agreement effected by exchange of notes signed at Cape Town May 23, 1947; entered into force May 23, 1947.

May 23, 1947 [T. I. A. 8. 1639]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA RELATING TO
AIR SERVICES BETWEEN THEIR RESPECTIVE TERRITORIES.

3058

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA RELATING TO AIR SERVICES BETWEEN THEIR RESPECTIVE TERRITORIES.

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Union of South Africa, considering-
that the possibilities of commercial aviation as a means of transport have greatly increased, and
that it is desirable to organize the international air services in a safe and orderly manner and to further as much as possible the development of international co-operation in this field ,
have appointed their representatives, who duly authorized , have agreed upon the following:
ARTICLE I.

Post, p. 3062.

The contracting parties grant to each other the rights specified in the annex hereto for the establishment of the international air services

set forth in that annex, (hereinafter referred to as the "agreed services ").
ARTICLE II.

Inauguration ofservices.

(A) The agreed services may be inaugurated immediately or at a later date at the option of the contracting party to whom the rights are granted, on condition that--

(1) the contracting party to whom the rights have been granted shall have designated an air carrier or carriers for the specified route or routes ;
(2) the contracting party which grants the rights shall have given the appropriate operating permission to the air carrier or carriers concerned pursuant to paragraph (B) of this article which (subject to the provisions of Article VI) it shall do with the least possible delay.

(B) The designated air carrier or carriers may be required to satisfy the aeronautical authorities of the contracting party granting the rights that it or they is or are qualified to fulfil the conditions prescribed by or under the laws and regulations normally applied by those authorities to the operations of commercial air carriers.

Charges.

ARTICLE III.
(A) The charges which either contracting party may impose or permit to be imposed on the designated air carrier or carriers of the other contracting party for the use of airports and other facilities

61 STAT. ] SOUTH AFRICA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAY 23, 1947

3059

shall not be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft employed in similar international air services .
(B) Fuel, lubricating oils and spare parts introduced into, or taken on board aircraft in the territory of one contracting party by, or on
behalf of, any designated air carrier of the other contracting party and intended solely for use by the aircraft of such carrier shall be accorded, with respect to customs duties, inspection fees and other charges imposed by the former contracting party, treatment not less favourable than that granted to national air carriers engaged in international air services or such carriers of the most favoured nation .
(C) Aircraft of the designated airline of one contracting party operating on the agreed services on a flight to , from or across the territory of the other contracting party shall be admitted temporarily free from customs duties subject otherwise to the customs regulations of such other contracting party. Supplies of fuel, lubricating oils, spare parts, regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board aircraft of any designated air carrier of one contracting party shall be exempt in the territory of the other contracting party from customs duties, inspection fees or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used by such aircraft on flights within that territory.

ARTICLE IV.
Certificates of airCertificates of airworthiness , certificates of competency and licences worthiness, etc. issued or rendered valid by one contracting party and still in force shall be recognized as valid by the other contracting party for the purpose of operation of the agreed services. Each contracting party reserves the right, however, to refuse to recognize for the purpose of flight above its own territory, certificates of competency and licences granted to its own nationals by another state.

ARTICLE V.

(A) The laws and regulations of one contracting party relating to

Laws and regulations.

the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged in

international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of such

aircraft while within its territory, shall be applied to the aircraft of the

other contracting party, and shall be complied with by such aircraft

upon entering or departing from or while within the territory of the

first party .

(B) The laws and regulations of each contracting party as to the admission to, sojourn in and departure from its territory of passengers, crew and cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance, immigration, passports, customs and quarantine, shall be observed.

ARTICLE VI.

Each contracting party reserves the right to withhold or revoke a certificate or permit to an air carrier designated by the other contracting party in the event that it is not satisfied that substantial ownership and effective control of such carrier are vested in nationals of the other

Withholding or revocation of certificate
or permit.

contracting party, or in case of failure by that carrier to comply with

3060

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

the laws and regulations referred to in Article V hereof, or otherwise to fulfil the conditions under which the rights are granted in accordance with this agreement and its annex.

ARTICLE VII.

Consultation.

(A) In a spirit of close collaboration , the aeronautical authorities

of the two contracting parties will consult regularly with a view to

assuring the observance of the principles and the implementation of

the provisions outlined in this the present agreement and its annex.

Failure to publish information, etc.

(B) In the event of the aeronautical authorities of either con-

tracting party failing or ceasing to publish information in relation to

the agreed services on lines similar to that included in the Airline

Traffic Surveys (Station to Station and Origination and Destination) now published by the Civil Aeronautics Board and failing or ceasing to supply such data of this character as may be required by the International Civil Aviation Organization, the aeronautical authorities of such contracting party shall supply, on the request of the aeronautical authorities of the other contracting party, such information of that nature as may be requested.

ARTICLE VIII.

"Territory."

For the purpose of the present agreement and its annex-- (A) the term " territory" as applied to each contracting party shall be deemed to be the land areas and territorial waters adjacent there-

to under the sovereignty , suzerainty, protection, mandate , or trustee-

ship of such contracting party ;

"Aeronautical authorities."

(B) the term "aeronautical authorities" shall mean in the case of

the Union of South Africa the Minister in Charge of Civil Aviation,

and in the case of the United States the Civil Aeronautics Board, and

in both cases any person or body authorized to perform the functions

presently exercised by the aeronautical authorities as defined herein ;

"International air

services."

(C) the term "international air services " shall have the meaning

specified in Article 96 of the Convention on International Civil Avia-

126017. Stat., Pt. 2, p. tion signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944 .

ARTICLE IX .

Disputes.

Except as otherwise provided in this agreement or its annex, any dispute between the contracting parties relative to the interpretation or application of this agreement or its annex, which cannot be settled through consultation, shall be submitted for an advisory report to a tribunal of three arbitrators , one to be named by each contracting party, and the third to be agreed upon by the two arbitrators so chosen, provided that such third arbitrator shall not be a national of either contracting party. Each of the contracting parties shall designate an arbitrator within two months of the date of delivery by either party to the other party of a diplomatic note requesting arbitration of a dispute ; and the third arbitrator shall be agreed upon within one month after such period of two months . If the third arbitrator is not agreed upon, within the time limitation indicated, the vacancy thereby created shall be filled by the appointment of a person , desig-
nated by the president of the council of ICAO , from a panel of arbitral

61 STAT. ] SOUTH AFRICA--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 23, 1947

3061

personnel maintained in accordance with the practice of ICAO. The executive authorities of the contracting parties will use their best efforts under the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in any such advisory report. A moiety of the expenses of the arbitral tribunal shall be borne by each party.
ARTICLE X.
This agreement and all relative contracts shall be registered with the International Civil Aviation Organization .

Registration .

ARTICLE XI .

(A) This agreement, including the provisions of the annex thereof, Entry into force. will come into force on the day it is signed.
Consultation to ini(B) Either contracting party may at any time request consultation tiate amendments. with the other with a view to initiating any amendments of this agree-
ment or its annex which may be desirable in the light of experience. If a multilateral air convention enters into force in relation to both
contracting parties , such consultation shall take place with a view to amending the present agreement or its annex so as to conform to the provisions of such a convention .
(C) Except as otherwise provided in this agreement or its annex, if either of the contracting parties considers it desirable to modify the terms of the annex to this agreement it may request consultation between the aeronautical authorities of both contracting parties,
such consultation to begin within a period of sixty days from the date of the request. Any modification in the annex agreed to by said aeronautical authorities shall come into effect when it has been con-
firmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes . (D) When the procedure for a consultation provided for in para- terNmotiincaeteofagdreeseimreentto.
graph (B) of the present article has been initiated , either contracting party may at any time give notice to the other of its desire to terminate
this agreement . Such notice shall be simultaneously communicated to the International Civil Aviation Organization.

This agreement shall terminate one year after the date of receipt of the notice to terminate by the other contracting party unless the

notice is withdrawn by agreement before the expiration of this period. In the absence of acknowledgment of receipt by the other contracting

party, notice shall be deemed to have been received fourteen days after the receipt of the notice by the International Civil Aviation

Organization.

Done at Cape Town this 23rd day of May, 1947, in duplicate in the English and Afrikaans languages, each of which shall be of equal authenticity.
T HOLCOMB

Authentic languages.

For the Government of the United States of America :

JC SMUTS For the Government of the Union of South Africa :

[ SEAL ]

[SEAL]

95347°-49- PT. III- -50

3062

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

ANNEX.

SECTION I.

South African rights of transit in U. S.

The Government of the United States of America grants to the Government of the Union of South Africa the right to conduct air transport services by one or more air carriers of South African na-

Post, p. 3066.

tionality designated by the latter country on the routes, specified in Schedule I attached , which transit or serve commercially the territory of the United States of America.

SECTION II.

U. S. rights of transit in South Africa. The Government of the Union of South Africa grants to the Govern-
ment of the United States of America the right to conduct air trans-

Post, p. 3066.

port services by one or more carriers of United States nationality designated by the latter country on the routes, specified in Schedule II

attached, which transit or serve commercially territory of the Union of South Africa .

SECTION III.

One or more air carriers designated by each of the contracting parties under the conditions provided in this agreement will enjoy, in the territory of the other contracting party, rights of transit, of stops for non-traffic purposes and of commercial entry and departure for international traffic in passengers, cargo and mail at the points enumerated and on each of the routes specified in the schedules attached at all airports open to international traffic.

SECTION IV.

It is agreed between the contracting parties-

Encouragement of air travel.

(A) that the two governments desire to foster and encourage the

widest possible distribution of the benefits of air travel for the general

good of mankind at the cheapest rates consistent with sound economic

principles ; and to stimulate international air travel as a means of

promoting friendly understanding and good will among peoples and

ensuring as well the many indirect benefits of this new form of trans-

Equal opportunity
for operation of services .

portation to the common welfare of both countries ; (B) that the designated airlines of the two contracting parties
operating on the routes described in this annex shall enjoy fair and

equal opportunity for the operation of the agreed services. If the

designated airline of one contracting party is temporarily unable,

as a result of the war to take advantage of such opportunity, the contracting parties shall review the situation with the object of assisting the said airline to take full advantage of the fair and equal oppor-

tunity to participate in the agreed services ; (C) that in the operation by the air carriers of either contracting
party of international services described in the present annex, the interests of the air carriers of the other country shall, however, be

taken into consideration so as not to affect unduly the services which the latter provide on all or part of the same route;

61 STAT.] SOUTH AFRICA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 23, 1947

3063

(D) that the total air transport services offered by the carriers of both countries should bear a close relationship to the requirements of

the public for such services ; Provision of ade-
(E) that the services provided by a designated air carrier under quate capacity.
this agreement and its annex shall retain as their primary objective

the provision of capacity adequate to the traffic demands between

the country of which such air carrier is a national and the country of

ultimate destination of the traffic;

(F) that the right of the air carriers of either country to embark and

Right to embark, etc.

to disembark at points in the territory of the other country inter-

national traffic destined for or coming from third countries at a point or points on the routes specified in the schedules attached shall be

applied in accordance with the general principles of orderly develop-

ment to which both governments subscribe and shall be subject to

the general principle that capacity shall be related-

( 1 ) to traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination ;

(2) to the requirements of through airline operation ; and (3) to the traffic requirements of the area through which the
airline passes after taking account of local and regional services .

SECTION V.

(A) The determination of rates in accordance with the following

Determination rates.

of

paragraphs shall be made at reasonable levels , due regard being paid to all relevant factors, such as cost of operation, reasonable profit,

and the rates charged by any other carriers, as well as the characteristics of each service .
(B) The rates to be charged by the air carriers of either contracting

Approval.

party between points in the territory of the United States and points

in the territory of the Union of South Africa referred to in this annex

shall, consistent with the provisions of the present agreement and its

annex, be subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of the

contracting parties, who shall act in accordance with their obligations

under the present annex, within the limits of their legal powers .

(C) The Civil Aeronautics Board of the United States having ap-

proved the traffic conference machinery of the International Air Transport Association (hereinafter called "IATA" ) , for a period of one year beginning in February, 1947 , any rate agreements concluded through this machinery during this period and involving United States air carriers will be subject to approval by the Board.
(D) Any rate proposed by the air carrier or carriers of either con-
tracting party shall be filed with the aeronautical authorities of both

"IATA."
Filing of proposed rate.

contracting parties at least thirty days before the proposed date of

introduction ; provided that this period of thirty days may be reduced

in particular cases if so agreed by the aeronautical authorities of both

contracting parties .

(E) The contracting parties agree that the procedure described in paragraphs (F) , (G) and (H) of this section shall apply-

3064

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

(1) if, during the period of the Civil Aeronautics Board's approval of the IATA traffic conference machinery, either any specific rate agreement is not approved within a reasonable time by either contracting party or a conference of IATA is unable to agree on a rate ; or

(2) if at any time no IATA machinery is applicable ; or

(3) if either contracting party at any time withdraws or fails

to renew its approval of that part of the IATA traffic

conference machinery relevant to this section.

Prevention of un-

fair or uneconomic (F) In the event that power is conferred by law upon the aero-

rates.

nautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic rates

for the transport of persons and property by air on international services and to suspend proposed rates in a manner comparable to that in which the Civil Aeronautics Board at present is empowered to act with respect to such rates for the transport of persons and property by air within the United States, each of the contracting parties shall thereafter exercise its authority in such manner as to prevent any rate

or rates proposed by one of its carriers for services from the territory

of one contracting party to a point or points in the territory ofthe

other contracting party from becoming effective, if in the judgment of

the aeronautical authorities of the contracting party whose air carrier

or carriers is or are proposing such rate, that rate is unfair or un-

facNtoitoincewitohfpdriospsoatsiesd economic. If one of the contracting parties on receipt of the notifica-
rate. tion referred to in paragraph (D) above is dissatisfied with the rate

proposed by the air carrier or carriers of the other contracting party, it

shall so notify the other contracting party prior to the expiry of the

first fifteen of the thirty days referred to , and the contracting parties

shall endeavour to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.

In the event that such agreement is reached, each contracting party

will exercise its statutory powers to give effect to such agreement.

Provisional rate pending settlement of

If agreement has not been reached at the end of the thirty day period

dispute.

referred to in paragraph (D) above, the proposed rate may, unless the

aeronautical authorities of the country of the air carrier concerned see

fit to suspend its application, go into effect provisionally pending the

settlement of any dispute in accordance with the procedure outlined

in paragraph (H) below.

(G) Prior to the time when such power may be conferred by law upon the aeronautical authorities of the United States, if one of the contracting parties is dissatisfied with any rate proposed by the air carrier or carriers of either contracting party for services from the territory of one contracting party to a point or points in the territory of the other contracting party , it shall so notify the other prior to the expiry of the first fifteen of the thirty day period referred to in paragraph (D) above , and the contracting parties shall endeavour to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.
In the event that such agreement is reached each contracting party will use its best efforts to cause such agreed rate to be put into effect by its air carrier or carriers .
It is recognized that if no such agreement can be reached prior to the expiry of such thirty days, the contracting party raising the

61 STAT. ] SOUTH AFRICA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 23, 1947

3065

objection to the rate may take such steps as it may consider necessary to prevent the inauguration or continuation of the service in question at the rate complained of.
(H) When in any case under paragraphs (F) and (G) above the aeronautical authorities of the two contracting parties cannot agree within a reasonable time upon the appropriate rate after consultation initiated by the complaint of one contracting party concerning the proposed rate or an existing rate of the air carrier or carriers of the other contracting party, upon the request of either, both contracting parties shall submit the question to arbitration in the manner prescribed in Article IX of the Agreement.
(I) The Executive Branch of the Government of the United States agrees to use its best efforts to secure legislation empowering the aeronautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic rates
for the transport of persons and property by air on international services, and to suspend proposed rates in a manner comparable to that in which the Civil Aeronautics Board at present is empowered to act with respect to such rates for the transport of persons and property by air within the United States.

Arbitration. Ante, p. 3060.

SECTION VI. Determination of
It is recognized that the determination of tariffs to be applied by tariffs

an air carrier of one contracting party between the territory of the other contracting party and a third country is a complex question, the overall solution of which cannot be sought through consultation between only two countries. It is noted , furthermore, that the method of determining such tariffs is now being studied by ICAO. It is understood under these circumstances-

(A) that, pending the acceptance by both parties of any recom-

mendations which ICAO may make after its study of this matter, such tariffs shall be subject to consideration under the

provisions of Section IV (C) of the annex to the agreement.

(B) that in case ICAO fails to establish a means of determining

such rates satisfactory to both contracting parties, the consultation provided for in Article XI (B) of the agreement shall be in order.

Ante, p. 3061.

SECTION VII .

Changes made by either contracting party in the routes described in the schedules attached except those which change the points served by airlines of one contracting party in the territory of the other contracting party shall not be considered as modifications of the annex. The aeronautical authorities of either contracting party may therefore proceed unilaterally to make such changes, provided , however, that notice of any change is given without delay to the aeronautical authorities of the other contracting party .
If such other aeronautical authorities find that, having regard to the principles set forth in Section IV of the present annex, interests of their air carrier or carriers are prejudiced by the carriage by the air carrier or carriers of the first contracting party of traffic between the territory of the second contracting party and the new point in

Changes in routes.
Notice.
Consultation. Ante, p. 3062.

3066

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

the territory of a third country, the authorities of the two contracting parties shall consult with a view to arriving at a satisfactory agreement.
SECTION VIII.

Exchange of information.

After the present agreement comes into force, the aeronautical

authorities of both contracting parties will exchange information as promptly as possible concerning the authorizations extended to their

respective designated air carriers to render service to , through and

from the territory of the other contracting party. This will include copies of current certificates and authorizations for service on the

routes which are the subject of this agreement and, for the future,

such new authorizations as may be issued together with amendments,

exemption orders and authorized service patterns.

SCHEDULE I.
South African rights of transit and stop in Airlines of the Union of South Africa authorized under the present the U. S.
agreement are accorded in the territory of the United States on a service or services between the Union of South Africa and New York
rights of transit and non-traffic stop , as well as the right to pick up and
discharge international traffic in passengers , cargo and mail at such
points and over such routes as may be determined at a later date.

SCHEDULE II.

U.S. rights of trans- Airlines of the United States of America authorized under the it and stop in South

Africa.

present agreement are accorded rights of transit and non-traffic stop

in the territory of the Union of South Africa, as well as the right to

pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers, cargo and

mail at Johannesburg and Cape Town on the following routes in both directions . On each of the routes described below the airline or air-

lines designated to operate such route may operate non-stop flights between any of the points on such route omitting stops at one or more of the other points on such route.

(1 ) United States via the North Atlantic and Africa to Johannesburg .
(2) United States via the Caribbean, South America, the South Atlantic and Africa to Cape Town.

61 STAT. ] SOUTH AFRICA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAY 23, 1947

3067

OOREENKOMS TUSSEN
DIE REGERING VAN DIE VERENIGDE STATE VAN AMERIKA EN
DIE REGERING VAN DIE UNIE VAN SUID-AFRIKA BETREFFENDE
LUGDIENSTE TUSSEN HUL ONDERSKEIE GEBIEDE .

3068

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

OOREENKOMS TUSSEN
DIE REGERING VAN DIE VERENIGDE STATE VAN AMERIKA
DIE REGERING VAN DIE UNIE VAN SUID-AFRIKA BETREFFENDE
LUGDIENSTE TUSSEN HUL ONDERSKEIE GEBIEDE.
Aangesien die regering van die Verenigde State van Amerika en die regering van die Unie van Suid-Afrika die mening toegedaan is
dat die moontlikhede van handelslugvaart as ' n vervoermiddel aanmerklik toegeneem het , en
dat dit wenslik is om die internasionale lugdienste op ' n veilige en ordelike wyse te organiseer en die ontwikkeling van internasionale samewerking op hierdie gebied sover doenlik te bevorder ,
het hulle hul gevolmagtigdes aangestel , wat , behoorlik daartoe gemagtig , oor die volgende ooreengekom het: -
ARTIKEL I. Elke kontrakterende party verleen aan die ander party die regte uiteengesit in die aanhangsel hiervan vir die instelling van die internasionale lugdienste vermeld in die aanhangsel ( hierna die ooreengekome dienste" genoem ).
ARTIKEL II/ ....

61 STAT.] SOUTH AFRICA--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAY 23, 1947
ARTIKEL II. (A) Die ooreengekome dienste kan onmiddellik of op ' n later tydstip , na goeddunke van die kontrakterende party aan wie die regte verleen is , ingestel word, op voorwaarde dat ·
(1) die kontrakterende party aan wie die regte verleen is , ' n lugeksploitant of -eksploitante vir die bepaalde roete of roetes aangewys het;
(2) die kontrakterende party wat die regte verleen , die vereiste bedryfsvergunning ingevolge paragraaf ( B ) van hierdie artikel aan die betrokke lugeksploitant of -eksploitante verleen het , wat (onderworpe aan die bepalings van artikel VI ) met die mins moontlike vertraging moet geskied .
(B ) Van die aangewese lugeksploitant of -eksploitante kan verlang word om die lugvaartoutoriteite van die kontrakterende party wat die regte verleen , te oortuig dat hy of hulle in staat is om te voldoen aan die bepalings neergelê deur of kragtens die wette en regulasies wat gewoonlik deur genoemde outoriteite op die eksploitasie van handelslugdienste toegepas word.
ARTIKEL III. (A) Die gelde vir die gebruik van lughawens en ander geriewe , wat elk van die kontrakterende partye van die aangewese lugeksploitant of -eksploitante van die ander kontrakterende party kan vorder of kan laat vorder , mag nie hoër wees as dié wat vir die gebruik van sulke lughawens en geriewe deur sy nasionale vliegtuie wat vir soortgelyke internasionale lugdienste gebruik word , betaalbaar is nie .
(B)/ .the.

3069

3070

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
(B ) Brandstof, smeerolie en onderdele wat in die gebied van een kontrakterende party ingebring of aan boord van vliegtule geneem word deur of namens enige aangewese lugeksploitant van die ander kontrakterende party , en uitsluitlik vir gebruik deur die vliegtuie van sodanige eksploitant bedoel is , geniet , wat betref doeaneregte , inspeksiegeld en ander koste gehef deur eersgenoemde kontrakterende party, behandeling wat nie ongunstiger is as dié verleen aan nasionale lugeksploitante wat internasionale lugdienste eksploiteer of aan sodanige eksploitante van die mees begunstigde nasie nie .
(C ) Vliegtuie van die aangewese lugeksploitant van een kontrakterende party wat op die ooreengekome dienste gebruik word vir ' n vlug na, van of oor die gebied van die ander kontrakterende party , word tydelik vry van doeaneregte toegelaat onderworpe andersins aan die doeaneregulasies van sodanige ander kontrakterende party. Voorrade brandstof, smeerolie , onderdele, gewone uitrusting en vliegtuigbenodigdhede wat aan boord van vliegtuie van enige aangewese lugeksploitant van een kontrakterende party gehou word, is in die gebied van die ander kontrakterende party van doeaneregte , inspeksiegeld of soortgelyke regte of koste vrygestel, selfs al word sodanige voorrade deur sulke vliegtuie op vlugte in daardie gebied gebruik.
ARTIKEL IV . Lugwaardigheidsertifikate , bevoegdheidsertifi kate en lisensies wat deur een kontrakterende party uitgereik of geldig gemaak is en wat nog van krag 18, word deur die ander kontrakterende party vir die eksploitasie van die ooreengekome dienste as geldig erken.
Elke/ ....

61 STAT. ] SOUTH AFRICA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 23, 1947

Elke kontrakterende party behou egter die reg voor om vir die doel van vlugte oor sy eie gebied te weier om bevoegdheidsertifikate en lisensies wat deur ' n ander staat aan sy eie landsburgers uitgereik is , te erken .

ARTIKEL V. (A) Die wette en regulasies van een kontrakterende party betreffende die binnekoms in of vertrek uit sy gebied van vliegtuie wat vir internasionale lugvaart gebruik word , of betreffende die gebruik en navigasie van sulke vliegtuie terwyl hulle in sy gebied is , is op die vliegtuie van die ander kontrakterende party van toepassing en moet deur sulke vliegtuie by hul binnekoms in of vertrek uit die gebied van eersgenoemde party, of terwyl hulle daarin vertoef , nagekom word . ( B ) Die wette en regulasies van elke kontrakterende party betreffende die binnekoms en verblyf in en vertrek uit sy gebied van passagiers , bemanning en vrag van vliegtuie , soos regulasies met betrekking tot binnekoms , klaring , immigrasie , paspoorte , doeane cn kwarantyn , moet nagekom word .

ARTIKEL VI . Elke kontrakterenle party behou die reg voor

om ' n sertifikaat of permit in die geval van ' n aangewese lugeksploitant van die ander kontrakterende party te weier of in te trek indien hy nie daarvan oortuig is dat oorwegende eiendomsreg van en doeltreffende beheer oor sodanige eksploitant by landsburgers van die ander

kontrakterende party berus nie , of ingeval die ekspicitant versuim om die wette en regulasies vermeld in artikel V van hierdie ooreenkoms na te kom, of om

andersins die voorwaardes waarop die regte ingevolge

hierdie ocreenkoms en sy aanhangsel verleen word , uit

te voer.

ARTIKEL VII/ ....

3071

3072

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
ARTIKEL VII. (A) Die lugvaartoutoriteite van die twee kontrakterende partye sal in ' n gees van noue samewerking gereeld beraadslaag ten einde te verseker dat die beginsels en bepalings uiteengesit in hierdie ooreenkoms en sy aanhangsel gehandhaaf en nagekom word . (B ) Indien die lugvaartoutoriteite van enigeen van die kontrakterende partye versuim of ophou om inligting met betrekking tot die ooreengekome dienste te publiseer, 800s dié vervat in die Opgawes van Lugdiensverkeer (Landingsplek na Landingsplek en Oorsprong en Bestemming) wat tans deur die " Civil Aeronautics Board " uitgegee word , en versuim of ophou om die gegewens van hierdie aard wat deur die Internasionale Organisasie vir Burger. like Lugvaart vereis mag word , te verstrek , moet die lugvaartoutoriteite van dié kontrakterende party, op versoek van die lugvaartoutoriteite van die ander kontrakterende party , enige inligting van hierdie aard wat gevra word, verskaf.
ARTIKEL VIII . Vir die doel van hierdie ooreenkoms en sy aanhangsel (A) word die uitdrukking gebied " soos op elke kontrakterende party toegepas , geag die grondgebiede en aangrensende territoriale waters onder die soewereiniteit , susereiniteit , beskerming, mandaat , of voogdyskap van sodanige kontrakterende party te behels;
( B)/ ...

61 STAT. ] SOUTH AFRICA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES -MAY 23, 1947

3073

(B ) beteken die uitdrukking lugvaartoutoriteite " in die geval van die Unie van Suid-Afrika die Minister belas met burgerlike lugvaart , en in die geval van die Verenigde State die " Civil Aeronautics Board " , en in beide gevalle enige persoon of liggaam wat gemagtig is om die werksaamhede wat tans deur die hierin omskrewe lugvaartoutoriteite verrig word , uit te voer ;
(C) het die uitdrukking internasionale lugdienste" die betekenis daaraan toegeskryf in artikel 96 van die Konvensie oor Internasionale Burgerlike Lugvaart wat op 7 Desember 1944 te Chicago onderteken is.
ARTIKEL IX . Behalwe soos andersins in hierdie ooreenkoms of sy aanhangsel bepaal , word enige geskil tussen die kontrakterende partye met betrekking tot die vertolking of toepassing van hierdie ooreenkoms of sy aanhangsel , wat nie deur beraadslaging besleg kan word nie , vir 'n adviserende verslag verwys na ' n arbitrasieliggaam bestaande uit drie arbiters , een deur elk van die kontrakterende partye benoem te word en die derde deur die twee aldus gekose arbiters in oorleg met mekaar aangewys te word , met dien verstande dat sodanige derde arbiter nie ' n lardsburger van enigeen van die kontrakterende partye is nie . Elk van die kontrakterende partye moet ' n arbiter aanwys binne twee maande na die afleweringsdatur van ' r. diplomatieke nota van enigeen van die partye aan die ander, waarin die beslegting van 'n geskil deur middel van arbitrasie versoek word; en oor die derde arbiter moet binne een maand na sodanige tydperk van twee maande ooreengekom word. Indien daar nie binne hierdie bepaalde tyd oor die derde arbiter
ooreengekom/ ...

3074

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
ooreengekom word nie , moet die vakature wat daardeur ontstaan, aangevul word deur die aanstelling van ' n persoon, aangewys deur die president van die raad van die Internasionale Organisasie vir Burgerlike Lugvaart , uit ' n raamlys van arbitrasiepersoneel wat volgens gebruik van genoemde Organisasie in stand gehou word . Die uitvoerende outoriteite van die kontrakterende partye sal kragtens die bevoegdhede tot hulle beskikking , alles in hul vermoë doen om aan die mening wat in so ' n adviserende verslag uitgespreek word , gevolg te gee . Die helfte van die uitgawes van die arbitrasieliggaam word deur elke party gedra .
ARTIKEL X. Hierdie ooreenkoms en alle betreklike kontrakte moet by die Internasionale Organisasie vir Burgerlike Lugvaart geregistreer word .
ARTIKEL XI . ( A ) Hierdie ooreenkoms , asook die bepalings van sy aanhangsel , tree op die dag waarop dit onderteken word , in werking . ( B ) Enigeen van die kontrakterende partye kan te eniger tyd versoek dat daar met die ander party beraadslaag word met die oog daarop on enige wysigings van hierdie ooreenkoms of sy aanhangsel wat uit ondervinding wenslik blyk te wees , aan te bring . As ' n veelsydige konvensie wat op beide kontrakterende partye betrekking het , in werking tree , word daar aldus beraadslaag met die oog op die wysiging van hierdie ooreenkoms of sy aanhangsel in dier voege dat dit aan die bepalings van co in konvensie voldoen .
(c )/ ...

61 STAT. ] SOUTH AFRICA--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 23, 1947
(C ) Behalwe soos andersins in hierdie ooreenkoms of sy aanhangsel bepaal , kan enigeen van die kontrakterende partye , indien hy dit wenslik ag dat die bepalings van die aanhangsel van hierdie ooreenkoms gewysig word , versoek dat die lugvaartoutoriteite van beide kontrakterende partye met mekaar beraadslaag ; solanige beraadslaging binne ' n tydperk van sestig dae vanaf die datum van die versoek ' n aanvang te neem . Enige wysiging van die aanhangsel waarop bedoelde lugvaartoutoriteite ooreenkom , tree in werking wanneer dit deur die wisseling van diplomatieke notas bekragtig 15 .
(D) Wanneer die procedure vir beraadslaging , soo8 bepaal in paragraaf ( B ) van hierdie artikel , in werking gestel is , kan enigeen van die kontrakterende partye te eniger tyd aan die ander kontrakterende party kennis gee dat hy verlang om hierdie ooreenkoms te beëindig . Die Internasionale Organisasie vir Burgerlike Lugvaart moet tegelykertyd van hierdie kennisgewing verwittig word .
Hierdie ooreenkoms tree buite werking ' n jaar na die datum van ontvangs van die beëindigingskennisgewing deur die ander kontrakterende party , tensy daar ooreengekom word om die kennisgewing voor die verstryking van hierdie tydperk terug te trek . As die ander kontrakterende party versuim om ontvangs te erken , word die kennisgewing geag ontvang te gewees het veertien dae nadat dit deur die Internasionale Organisasie vir Burgerlike Lugvaart ontvang 18 .
Onderteken/ ....

3075

3076

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
Onderteken op hierdie 23 " dag van Mei 1947 te Kaapstad in duplikaat in die Engelse en Afrikaanse tale . Beide lesings is ewe outentiek.
 Namens die regering van die Verenigde State van Amerika:

3 Namens die regering van die Unie van Suid-Afrika:

1 T Holcomb 2 JC Smuts

61 STAT.] SOUTH AFRICA--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 23, 1947

AANHANGSEL. AFDELING I.
Die regering van die Verenigde State van Amerika verleen aan die regering van die Unie van Suid-Afrika die reg om lugvervoerdienste deur een of meer deur laasgenoemde land aangewese lugeksploitante wat Suid-Afrikaanse landsburgers is, te eksploiteer oor die roetes , vermeld in bygaande Bylae I, wat oor die gebied van die Verenigde State van Amerika gaan of dit op handelsgebied bedien ,
AFDELING II. Die regering van die Unie van Suid-Afrika verleen aan die regering van die Verenigde State van Amerika die reg om lugvervoerdienste deur een of meer deur laasgenoemde land aangewese lugeksploitante wat landsburgers van die Verenigde State i , te eksploiteer oor die roetes , vermeld in bygaande Bylae II, wat oor die gebied van die Unie van Suid-Afrika gaan of dit op handelsgebied bedien.
AFDELING III . Aan een of meer lugeksploitante wat deur elk van die kontrakterende partye kragtens die bepalings van hierdie ooreenkoms aangewys is , word die reg verleen om oor die gebied van die ander kontrakterende party te vlieg, vir nie -verkeersdoeleindes daarin te land , en dit vir handelsdoeleindes binne te kom en daaruit te vertrek met die oog op die vervoer van internasionale verkeer bestaande uit passasiers , vrag en posstukke by die plekke aangetoon en oor elk van die roetes vermeld in die bygaande bylaes by alle lughawens wat vir internasionale verkeer oopgestel is .

95347°-49 - PT. III- -51

AFDELING IV/ ....

3077

3078

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
AFDELING IV. Die kontrakterende partye kom as volg ooreen : (A) Dat die twee regerings begeer or die groots moontlike verspreiding van die voordele verbonde aan lugvervoer in die algemene belang van die mensdom teen die goedkoopste tariewe bestaanbaar met gesonde ekonomiese beginsels te bevorder en aan te moedig; en om internasionale lugvervoer aan te wakker as ' n middel tot bevordering van ' n vriendskaplike gesindheid en welwillendheid onder die volke , en tewens tot aanwending van die talle onregstreekse voordele verbonde aan hierdie nuwe metode van vervoer vir die gemeenskaplike welsyn van beide lande . (B) Dat aan die aangewese lugeksploitante van die twee kontrakterende partye wat die roetes vermeld in hierdie aanhangsel eksploiteer , billike en gelyke geleenthede verskaf moet word vir die eksploitasie van die ooreengekome dienste . As die aangewese lugeksploitant van een kontrakterende party , as gevolg van die oorlog tydelik nie van sodanige geleenthede gebruik kan maak nie , moet die kontrakterende partye die toestand hersien ten einde bedoelde lugeksploitant te help om volle gebruik te maak van die billike en gelyke geleenthede om aan die ooreengekome dienste mee te doen. ( C ) Dat by die eksploitasie van die in hierdie aans hangsel bedoelde internasionale dienste deur die lugeksploitante van enigeen van die kontrakterende partye, die belange van die lugeksploitante van die ander land egter in aanmerking geneem moet word sodat die dienste wat laasgenoemde oor dieselfde roete of ' n gedeelte daarvan verskaf, nie buitematig nadelig getref word nie,
(D )/ ....

61 STAT. ] SOUTH AFRICA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES--MAY 23, 1947
( D) Dat al die lugvervoerdienste wat deur die eksploitante van beide lande aangebied word , in noue verband met die behoeftes van die publiek aan sodanige dienste moet staan .
(E ) Dat die dienste wat deur ' n aangewese lugeksploitant ingevolge hierdie ooreenkoms en sy aanhangsel geeksploiteer word , die verskaffing van vervoervermoë wat aan die verkeersvereistes tussen die land waarvan sodanige lugeksploitant ' n landsburger is , en die land wat die uiteindelike bestemming van die verkeer is , sal voldoen, as hoofdoel moet behou .
(F ) Dat die reg van die lugeksploitante van enigeen van die lande om internasionale verkeer besten vir of afkomstig uit derde lande by ' n plek of plekke op die roetes in die bygaande bylaes vermeld , by plekke in die gebied van die ander land op en af te laai , toegepas moet word in ooreenstemming met die algemene beginsels van ordelike ontwikkeling , wat beide regerings onderskryf, en onderworpe moet wees aan die algemene beginsel dat vervoervermoë verband moet hou met -
(1) verkeersvereistes tussen die land van oorsprong en die lande van bestemming;
( 2 ) die vereistes van deurgaande lugcksploitasie ; en
( 3 ) die verkeersvereistes van die gebied waaroor die lugdiens geëksploiteer word nadat met plaaslike en streekdienste rekening gehou is.
AFDELING V. (A) Die vasstelling van tariewe ooreenkomstig die volgende paragrawe moet op ' n redelike peil geskied , met behoorlike inagneming van alle ter sake dienende faktore ,
6008/ ....

3079

3080

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
soos bedryfskoste , redelike wins , en die tariewe gehef deur enige ander eksploitante , asook die aard van elke diens .
(B ) Die tariewe wat tussen plekke in die gebied van die Verenigde State en plekke in die gebied van die Unie van Suid-Afrika vermeld in hierdie aanhangsel , deur die lugeksploitante van enigeen van die kontrakterende partye gehef word , is , in ooreenstemming met die bepalings van hierdie ooreenkoms en sy aanhangsel , onderworpe aan die goedkeuring van die lugvaartoutoriteite van die kontrakterende partye , wat , binne die perke van hul ragsbevoegdheid , ooreenkomstig hul verpligtinge kragtens hierdie aanhangsel moet handel .
(C ) Aangesien die " Civil Aeronautics Board " van die Verenigde State die verkeerskonferensie -prosedure van die Vereniging vir Internasionale Lugvervoer ( hierna V.I.L. genoem ) vir ' n tydperk van een jaar vanaf Februarie 1947 goedgekeur het , is enige tariefooreenkomste wat gedurende dié tydperk deur middel van hierdie prosedure aangegaan is en waarby lugeksploitante van die Verenigde State betrokke is , aan die goedkeuring van die Raad onderworpe .
(D ) Besonderhede van enige tarief voorgestel deur die lugeksploitant of -eksploitante van enigeen van die kontrakterende partye , moet ten minste dertig dae voor die voorgestelde datum waarop die tarief in werking tree , by die lugvaartoutoriteite van beide kontrakterende partye ingedien word; met dien verstande dat hierdie tydperk van dertig dae in besondere gevalle verkort kan word as die lugvaartoutoriteite van beide kontrakterende partye daartoe instem.
(E)/ ....

61 STAT.] SOUTH AFRICA--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES--MAY 23, 1947
(E ) Die kontrakterende partye kom ooreen dat die prosedure wat in paragrawe ( F ) , ( G ) en ( H ) van hierdie afdeling voorgeskryf word , van toepassing is -
(1 ) indien , gedurende die tydperk waarvoor die verkeerskonferensie -prosedure van V.I.L. deur die " Civil Aeronautics Board " goedgekeur is , enige bepaalde tariefooreenkoms nie binne ' n redelike tyd deur enigeen van die kontrakterende partye goedgekeur word of ' n konferensie van V.I.L. nie in verband met ' n tarief ooreen kan kom nie ; of
( 2) indien daar op een of ander tydstip van geen V.I.L. -prosedure gebruik gemaak kan word nie ; of
(3) indien enigeen van die kontrakterende party op een of ander tydstip sy goedkeuring van die deel van die V.I.L. -verkeerskonferensie -prosedure wat op hierdie afdeling betrekking het , terugtrek of versuim om sodanige goedkeuring te hernu ,
(F) Indien die lugvaartoutoriteite van die Verenigde State by wet gemagtig word om billike en ekonomiese tariewe vir die lugvervoer van persone en goedere op internasionale dienste vas te stel en om voorgestelde tariewe op te skort op ' n wyse vergelykbaar met dié waarop die " Civil Aeronautics Board" tans gemagtig is om op te tree in verband met sodanige tariewe vir die lugvervoer van persone en goedere in die Verenigde State , oefen elk van die kontrakterende partye daarna sy bevoegdheid uit op ' n wyse wat sal verhoed dat enige tarief of tariewe , voorgestel deur een van sy eksploitante vir dienste tussen die gebied van
een/ ....

3081

3082

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT,
een kontrakterende party en ' n plek of plekke in die gebied van die ander kontrakterende party , van krag word, as die tarief na die mening van die kontrakterende party wie se lugeksploitant of -eksploitante sodanige tarief voorstel , onbillik of onekonomies is . As een van die kontrakterende partye na ontvangs van die in paragraaf (D) hierbo bedoelde kennisgewing , nie met die tarief voorgestel deur die lugeksploitant of -eksploitante van die ander kontrakterende party tevrede is nie , moet hy die ander kontrakterende party voor die verstryking van die eerste vyftien van vermelde dertig dae dienooreenkomstig verwittig, en moet die kontrakterende partye trag om oor 'n gepaste tarief ooreen te kom .
Indien so ' n ooreenkoms getref word , sal elke kontrakterende party sy regsbevoegdheid uitoefen ten einde aan sodanige ooreenkoms gevolg te gee .
As ' n ooreenkoms nie by verstryking van die tydperk van dertig dae genoem in paragraaf (D ) hierbo getref is nie , kan die voorgestelde tarief, tensy die lugvaartoutoriteite van die land van die betrokke lugeksploitant dit goed vind om die toepassing van die tarief op te skort , voorlopig in werking gestel word hangende die beslegting van ' n geskil ooreenkomstig die prosedure in paragraaf ( H ) hieronder omskryf.
(G) As een van die kontrakterende partye , voordat sodanige bevoegdheid by wet aan die lugvaartoutoriteite van die Verenigde State verleen is , nie met enige tarief voorgestel deur die lugeksploitant of -eksploitante van enigeen van die kontrakterende partye vir dienste` tussen die gebied van een kontrakterende party en ' n plek of plekke in die gebied van die ander kontrakterende partý tevrede is nie , moet hy die ander kontrakterende party
voor/ ....

61 STAT.] SOUTH AFRICA- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAY 23, 1947
voor die verstryking van die eerste vyftien dae van die dertigdaagse tydperk genoem in paragraaf ( D ) hierbo , dienooreenkomstig verwittig , en moet die kontrakterende partye trag om oor ' n gepaste tarief ooreen te kom .
Indien so ' n ooreenkoms getref word , sal elke Kontrakterende party alles in sy vermoë doen met die oog op die inwerkingstelling van sodanige ooreengekome tarief deur sy lugeksploitant of -eksploitante .
Daar word erken dat as so ' n ooreenkoms nie voor die verstryking van sodanige dertig dae getref kan word nie , die kontrakterende party wat teen die tarief beswaar gemaak het , sulke stappe as wat nodig geag word kan doen om die instelling of voortsetting van die betrokke diens teen die gewraakte tarief, te verhinder .
( H ) Wanneer die lugvaartoutoriteite van die twee kontrakterende partye na beraadslaging as gevolg van die klagte van een kontrakterende party betreffende die voorgestelde tarief of ' n bestaande tarief van die lugeksploitant of -eksploitante van die ander kontrakterende party , in enige geval genoem in paragrawe ( F ) en ( G ) hierbo nie binne ' n redelike tyd in verband met die gepaste tarief ooreen kan kom nie , moet beide kontrakterende partye , op versoek van enigeen van hulle , die saak deur middel van arbitrasie laat besleg op die wyse voorgeskryf in artikel IX van die ooreenkoms .
( I ) Die uitvoerende gesag van die regering van die Verenigde State onderneem om alles in sy vermoë te doen on te bewerkstellig dat wetgewing aangeneem word wat die lugvaartoutoriteite van die Verenigde State magtig on billike en ekonomiese tariewe vir die lugvervoer van persone en goedere op internasionale dienste vas te stel en of voorgestelde tariewe op te skort op ' n wyse vergelykbaar met die waarop die " Civil Aeronautics Board"
tans/ ....

3083

3084

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
tans gemagtig is om op te tree in verband met sodanige . tariewe vir die lugvervoer van persone en goedere in die Verenigde State .
AFDELING VI . Daar word erken dat die vasstelling van tariewe deur ' n lugeksploitant van een kontrakterende party gehef te word tussen die gebied van die ander kontrakterende party en ' n derde land , ' n ingewikkelde vraagstuk 18 , waarvan die algehele oplossing nie deur beraadslaging tussen slegs twee lande verkry kan word nie . Daar word voorts daarvan kennis geneem dat die metode van vasstelling van sodanige tariewe tans die aandag van die Internasionale Organisasie vir Burgerlike Lugvaart geniet. Onder hierdie omstandighede word daar aangeneem · ( A) dat , tot tyd en wyl albei partye sodanige aanbevelings aanvaar het as wat die Internasionale Organisasie vir Burgerlike Lugvaart na bestudering van die saak mag doen , sulke tariewe onderworpe sal wees aan oorweging kragtens die bepalings van afdeling IV( C ) van die aanhangsel van hierdie ooreenkoms ; ( B ) dat , ingeval die Internasionale Organisasie vir Burgerlike Lugvaart nie daarin slaag om ' n metode van vasstelling van sulke tariewe wat vir albei partye aanneemlik is , daar te stel nie , daar ooreenkomstig die bepalings van artikel XI ( B ) van die ooreenkoms beraadslaag sal word .
AFDELING VII. Veranderings wat deur enigeen van die kontrak terende partye aan die roetes genoem in die bygaande
bylaes/

61 STAT. ] SOUTH AFRICA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 23, 1947
bylaes aangebring word , uitgesonderd veranderings van die plekke wat deur, lugeksploitante van een van die kontrakterende partye in die gebied van die ander kontrakterende party bedien word , word nie as wysigings van die aanhangsel beskou nie . Die lugvaartoutoriteite van enigeen van die kontrakterende partye kan dus sodanige veranderings eensydig aanbring , met dien verstande egter dat die lugvaartoutoriteite van die ander kontrakterende party onverwyld van enige veranderings verwittig word .
As sodanige ander lugvaartoutoriteite vind dat die belange van hul lugeksploitant of -eksploitante , met die oog op die beginsels vervat in afdeling IV van hierdie aanhangsel , benadeel word deur die vervoer deur die lugeksploitant of -eksploitante van eersgenoemde kontrakterende party van verkeer tussen die gebied van laasgenoemde party en die nuwe plek in die gebied van ' n derde land , beraadlaag die outoriteite van die twee kontrakterende partye ten einde ' n bevredigende ooreenkoms te tref .
AFDELING VIII . Na die inwerkingtreding van hierdie ooreenkoms , verstrek die lugvaartoutoriteite van beide kontrakterende partye so spoedig moontlik inligting aan mekaar betreffende die magtigings verleen aan hul onderskeie aangewese lugeksploitante on diens aan, deur en van die gebied van die ander kontrakterende party te verskaf. Dit sluit in afskrifte van bestaande sertifikate en magtigings vir diens oor die roetes waaroor hierdie ooreenkoms gaan en , wat die toekoms betref, van sodanige nuwe magtigings as wat verleen mag word tesame met wysigings , vrystellingsorders en planne van gemagtigde dienste .

3085

3086

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
BYLAE I.
Aan lugeksploitante van die Unie van SuidAfrika wat ingevolge die onderhawige ooreenkoms aangewys is, word in die gebied van die Verenigde State in verband met ' n diens of dienste tussen die Unie van Suid-Afrika en New York die reg verleen om daardie gebied oor te vlieg en vir nie-verkeersdoeleindes daarin te land , asook die reg om internasionale verkeer bestaande uit passasiers , vrag en posstukke by sodanige plekke en oor sodanige roetes as wat op ' n later datum vasgestel mag word, op en af te laai .
BYLAE II .
Aan lugeksploitante van die Verenigde State van Amerika wat ingevolge die onderhawige ooreenkoms aangewys is, word die reg verleen om die gebied van die Unie van Suid-Afrika oor te vlieg en vir nie -verkeersdoeleindes daarin te land , asook die reg om internasionale verkeer bestaande uit passasiers , vrag en posstukke by Johannesburg en Kaapstad oor die volgende roetes in beide rigtings op en af te laai; oor elk van die ondervermelde roetes kan die lugeksploitant of -eksploitante wat aangewys is om so ' n roete te eksploiteer, ononderbroke vlugte tussen enige plekke langs daardie roete onderneem en een of meer van die ander aandoenplekke langs daardie roete verbysteek : -
(1) Verenigde State oor die Noord-Atlantiese Oseaan en Afrika na Johannesburg.
( 2) Verenigde State oor die Karribiese Eilande , Suid-Amerika , die Suid-Atlantiese Oseaan en Afrika na Kaapstad .

61 STAT. ] SOUTH AFRICA--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 23, 1947

3087

The American Minister to the Minister of External Affairs of the Union of South Africa

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Cape Town May 23, 1947
SIR : I have the honor to refer to the Bi-lateral Air Transport Agreement
concluded today between the Governments of the United States and the Union of South Africa at Cape Town and in regard to Article IX of this Agreement to state that it is the understanding of my Government that in the event either contracting party should find itself unable to carry out the terms of an advisory report which recommends rectifying action on the part of both contracting parties , the contracting party which finds itself unable to carry out the terms of such an advisory report shall so notify the other contracting party which, upon receipt of such notification , will not necessarily be bound to carry out the terms of such an advisory report.
This note and your confirmatory reply thereto will be regarded as constituting an agreement between the two Governments in the matter .
Please accept, Sir, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration.
T. HOLCOMB
Field Marshal
The Right Honorable J. C. SMUTS , O.M. , P.C. , C.H. , K.C., D.T.D. , M.P. , Minister of External Affairs, Cape Town.

Ante, p. 3060.

The Minister of External Affairs of the Union of South Africa to the American Minister

UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA. UNIE VAN SUID-AFRIKA.

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS .

DEPARTEMENT VAN BUITELANDSE SAKE.

MR. MINISTER,

Cape Town, 28 May 1947

I have the honour to acknowledge your note of today's date, which reads as follows :-

"Sir, I have the honor to refer to the Bi-lateral Air Transport Agree-
ment concluded today between the Governments of the United States and the Union of South Africa at Cape Town and in regard

3088 Ante, p. 3060.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
to Article IX of this Agreement to state that it is the understanding of my Government that in the event either contracting party should find itself unable to carry out the terms of an advisory report which recommends rectifying action on the part of both contracting parties, the contracting party which finds itself unable to carry out the terms of such an advisory report shall so notify the other contracting party which, upon receipt of such notification , will not necessarily be bound to carry out the terms of such an advisory report.
This note and your confirmatory reply thereto will be regarded as constituting an agreement between the two Governments in the matter.
Please accept, Sir, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration .
(Signed) T. HOLCOMB. "
I confirm that your note and this reply will be regarded as constituting an agreement to this effect between the two Governments .
Please accept, Mr. Minister, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration .
JC SMUTS Minister of External Affairs.
General THOMAS HOLCOMB , Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, Cape Town.

Dec. 20, 1946 61 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Jan. 27, 1947

3089

Agreement between the United States of America and the United King-
dom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting air transport services on routes to and from Fiji Island, amending the agreement of February 11 , 1946. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington December 20, 1946, and January 27, 1947; entered into force
January 27, 1947.

December 20, 1946, and
January 27, 1947
[T. I. A. S. 1640]

The British Ambassador to the Secretary of State

Ref : No. 1539/43/46 No. 692.

BRITISH EMBASSY, WASHINGTON, D.C., 20th December, 1946.

SIR, I have the honour, under instructions from His Majesty's Principal
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, to inform you that, in accordance with Article 8 of the Agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom and the Government of the United States

of America relating to air services between their respective territories, signed at Bermuda on 11th February, 1946, His Majesty's Govern-

ment in the United Kingdom propose that the following additional routes be added to those scheduled in Section 3 of the Annex to the above mentioned Agreement.

60 Stat. 1502. 60 Stat. 1507.

(a) Annex

Section III (a) :

Point of Departure Intermediate Points

8 Fiji Island (to and Canton Island from designated Honolulu terminals in Australia & New Zealand )

add Destination in U. S.
territory
San Francisco

Points Beyond Vancouver

(b) Annex

Section III (b ):

Point of Departure Intermediate Points

14 San Francisco Los Angeles

Honolulu Canton Island

add
Destination in U. K. territory

Points Beyond

Fiji

Noumea (optional)

(a) A point or points in Aus-

tralia.

(b) A point in New Zealand.

2. In accordance with Article 2 of the Agreement, His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom propose to designate British Commonwealth Pacific Airways a joint operating organization , in which His Majesty's Governments in the United Kingdom, Australia , and New Zealand are partners, in accordance with Article 77 of the

60 Stat. 1500.

3090

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Convention on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on 7 126021. Stat., Pt. 2, p. December, 1944, to operate Route 8 above.
3. If the additions to Section III of the Annex as set forth above

are agreeable to the Government of the United States, I am to suggest,

on the understanding that British Commonwealth Pacific Airways

will be the airline designated by His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom for the operation of services on Route 8 above, that

60 Stat. 1502.

this note and your reply thereto should constitute the exchange of notes , for which Article 8 of the Agreement signed at Bermuda

provides.

I have the honour to be, with the highest respect, Sir, Your most obedient, humble Servant, INVERCHAPEL

The Honourable JAMES F. BYRNES, Secretary of State of the United States, Washington, D.C.

60 Stat. 1502. 60 Stat. 1507.

The Secretary of State to the British Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON Jan 27 1947

EXCELLENCY :
I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's note dated December 20, 1946, reading as follows :
"I have the honour, under instructions from His Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, to inform you that, in accordance with Article 8 of the Agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom and the Government of the United States of America relating to air services between their respective territories, signed at Bermuda on 11th February, 1946, His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom propose that the following additional routes be added to those scheduled in Section 3 of the Annex to the above mentioned Agreement.

(a) Annex

Section III (a):

Point of Departure

Intermediate Points

add
Destination in U. 8. territory

Points Beyond

8 Fiji Island (to and Canton Island from designated Honolulu terminals in Australia & New Zealand)

San Francisco

Vancouver

Dec. 20, 1946 61 STAT.] UNITED KINGDOM-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Jan. 27, 1947

(b) Annex

Section III (b):

Point of Departure

Intermediate Points

add
Destination in U. K. territory

Points Beyond

14 San Francisco Los Angeles

Honolulu

Fiji

Canton Island

Noumea (optional) (a) A point or
points in Australia. (b) A point in New Zealand.

3091

"2. In accordance with Article 2 of the Agreement, His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom propose to designate British Commonwealth Pacific Airways a joint operating organization, in

60 Stat. 1500.

which His Majesty's Governments in the United Kingdom, Australia ,

and New Zealand are partners , in accordance with Article 77 of the

Convention on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on 7

December, 1944, to operate Route 8 above.

61 Stat . , Pt . 2, p . 1202.

"3. If the additions to Section III of the Annex as set forth above

are agreeable to the Government of the United States, I am to suggest,

on the understanding that British Commonwealth Pacific Airways

will be the airline designated by His Majesty's Government in the

United Kingdom for the operation of services on Route 8 above, that

this note and your reply thereto should constitute the exchange of notes, for which Article 8 of the Agreement signed at Bermuda provides. "

60 Stat. 1502.

I am pleased to inform you that the terms of Your Excellency's note as stated above are acceptable to my Government, which regards Section 3 of the Annex to the aforementioned bilateral agreement relating
to air services signed at Bermuda on February 11, 1946 as amended accordingly.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
For the Secretary of State : WILLIAM L. CLAYTON
His Excellency The Right Honorable THE LORD INVERCHAPEL, P.C., G.C.M.G. , British Ambassador.

60 Stat. 1507.

3092

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

May 21 and 23, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1641 ]

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting air transport services, Gander Airport, Newfoundland, supplementing the agreement of February 11 , 1946. Effected by exchange of notes signed at London May 21 and 23, 1947; entered into force May 23, 1947.

The British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

60 Stat. 1499. 60 Stat. 1500.
60 Stat. 1508. 60 Stat. 1504.

No. W 342/342/802.

FOREIGN OFFICE, S.W.1 . 21st May, 1947.

YOUR EXCELLENCY,

I have the honour to state that His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom, after consultation with the Government of Newfoundland and in accordance with the understandings arrived at in

the course of the discussions leading up to the signing of the Bermuda Agreement on the 11th February, 1946, have pleasure in informing the Government of the United States of America that an airline or airlines designated by the United States of America in accordance with Article 2 (i) of the Agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the United States of America signed on the 11th February , 1946 may enjoy at Gander Airport , Newfoundland . on routes 1 to 5 of Section III (b ) of the Annex to that Agreement the rights set out in Section 1 of that Annex on the following understandings :-

(a ) that the grant of the rights mentioned above is subject to the observance of, and is to be governed by, the provisions of the Final Act of the Bermuda Civil Aviation Conference signed on the 11th February, 1946 and of the Agreement of the 11th February, 1946, referred to above ; and
(b ) that similar rights will be granted , at a point or points to be agreed in the territory of the United States of America, to any airline designated by His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom on behalf of the Government of Newfoundland for the operation of air services on routes operating to or through the United States of America.

2. I am to add that, if and when as a result of any constitutional change affecting the status of Newfoundland, His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom ceases to act on behalf of Newfoundland in such matters as are referred to in this note, His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom agrees for its part that the provisions of this note should no longer apply and that a new agreement in such terms as may be appropriate should be entered into between the United

61 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 21, 23, 1947
States of America and Newfoundland or such other State as may be empowered to act in that connexion on behalf of Newfoundland.
3. I have the honour to propose that if the provisions of the present note are acceptable to the Government of the United States of America, the present note and Your Excellency's reply should be regarded as constituting an agreement supplemental to the Agreement of the 11th February, 1946, and should be registered as such with the International Civil Aviation Organisation.
I have the honour to be, with the highest consideration, Your Excellency's obedient Servant, (For the Secretary of State ) GEOFFREY KIRK.
His Excellency Mr. LEWIS W. DOUGLAS,
etc., etc. , etc. , 1, Grosvenor Square, W. 1.

3093

The American Ambassador to the British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs

No. 308

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
May 23, 1947

YOUR EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to acknowledge Your Excellency's Note No. 342/342/802 of May 21st , 1947 , relating to the Amendment supplemental to the Agreement of February 11th, 1946, governing civil air services between the United States and the United Kingdom .
I am instructed to inform you that this note is satisfactory to my Government and that this letter constitutes acceptance of the proposed Amendment .

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . LEWIS DOUGLAS

The Rt. Hon. ERNEST BEVIN , M. P. ,

Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Foreign Office, Whitehall, S.W.1.

95347-49- PT. III- -52

3094

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

July 30, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1642]

Agreement between the United States of America and Chile respecting commercial relations , extending the agreement of July 30, 1946. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Santiago July 30, 1947; entered into force July 30, 1947.

The Chilean Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

REPÚBLICA DE CHILE MINISTERIO
DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

No. 009623

DEPARTAMENTO DE POLITICA COMERCIAL Santiago , 30 de julio de 1947.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR : El día 31 del presente mes vence el Acuerdo Adicional de Comercio
concertado entre nuestros Gobiernos por cambio de notas de 23 y 30 de julio del año próximo pasado . El mantenimiento y desarrollo del intercambio comercial entre Chile y los Estados Unidos de América me mueve a expresar a Vuestra Excelencia que mi Gobierno está dispuesto a renovar por el período de un año el Acuerdo anterior y, por consiguiente, a otorgar a los productos norteamericanos que se especifican en la Lista anexa a la nota n* 4024 de este Ministerio , fechada el 30 de julio de 1945 , el tratamiento que en la misma lista quedó indicado, con excepción de las Partidas 552 , 553 y 554 , relativas a paraguas y quitasoles.
La presente nota y la respuesta de Vuestra Excelencia que exprese la aceptación del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos constituirán un nuevo Acuerdo entre ambos Gobiernos , entendiéndose que el plazo de su validez será de un año a contar del 31 de julio en curso, a menos

que sea denunciado por cualquiera de las Altas Partes mediante una notificación escrita dada con treinta días de anticipación, o que sea reemplazado por un Acuerdo Comercial más amplio.
Sin perjuicio de lo dispuesto en el presente Acuerdo Adicional , tengo el honor de expresar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Gobierno de Chile reitera su aceptación a los deseos del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América de iniciar negociaciones , dentro de los siguientes doce meses, para llegar a la concertación de un tratado sobre amistad, comercio y navegación que responda al interés recíproco de ambos países .
Me valgo de esta oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
R. JULIET Al Excelentisimo Señor
CLAUDE G. BOWERS,

Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de America, Presente.-

61 STAT. ] CHILE- COMMERCIAL RELATIONS-JULY 30, 1947

3095

Translation

REPUBLIC OF CHILE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN
AFFAIRS

No. 009623 MR. AMBASSADOR :

DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCIAL POLICY Santiago, July 30, 1947.

On the 31st day of the current month, the Additional Trade Agreement concluded between our two Governments by exchange of notes dated July 23 and 30 , last , expires . The maintenance and development of commercial exchange between Chile and the United States of America prompts me to inform Your Excellency that my Government is prepared to renew the former Agreement for the period of one year and, consequently, to grant to the North American products which are specified in the list annexed to Note No. 4024 of this Ministry, dated July 30 , 1945 , the treatment which was indicated in the same list, with the exception of items 552 , 553 and 554 , relating to umbrellas and parasols.
The present note and Your Excellency's reply announcing the acceptance of the Government of the United States will constitute a new

Agreement between the two Governments , it being understood that the term of its validity will be one year, counting from July 31 , of the present year, unless it is denounced by either of the High Contracting Parties by a written notice given thirty days in advance, or is replaced by a more extensive trade agreement.
Without prejudice to the provisions of the present Additional Agreement, I have the honor to state to Your Excellency that the Government of Chile repeats its approval of the desires of the United States Government to open negotiations , within the next twelve months, in order to reach an agreement concerning a treaty of friendship, commerce and navigation which will assure the reciprocal interest of both countries.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
R. JULIET

His Excellency CLAUDE G. BOWERS Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America City.

60 Stat. 1713. 60 Stat. 1724.

The American Ambassador to the Chilean Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 181

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Santiago, Chile, July 30, 1947

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's Note No. 9623 of July 30 , 1947 , containing a proposal by the Govern-

3096 60 Stat. 1724.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
ment of the Republic of Chile to concede to the commerce of the United States of America, without compensation , reductions in the Chilean import duties on certain products as set forth in the enclosure with Your Excellency's Note No. 4024 of July 30 , 1945 , excepting therefrom items Nos . 552 , 553 , and 554 relative to umbrellas and parasols, such reductions to continue in force for a further period of one year commencing on July 31 , 1947 , unless the present agreement is superseded in that time by a more comprehensive commercial agreement, it being understood, however, that the present agreement may be terminated by either Government upon the giving of thirty days' notice in writing.
I have the honor to assure Your Excellency that the Government of the United States of America greatly appreciates the interest of the Chilean Government in adopting measures to expand and to liberalize trade in accordance with the economic objectives of the Atlantic Charter and of the Inter-American Conference on Problems of War and Peace, and is pleased to accept the proposal of the Government of Chile.
In accepting this proposal I take this opportunity to reaffirm the desire of the Government of the United States of America to initiate concrete negotiations with Your Excellency's Government for a Treaty of Friendship , Commerce and Navigation responsive to the reciprocal interests of both countries and note with satisfaction the expressed willingness of Your Excellency's Government that such negotiations be initiated within the next twelve months .
Accept, Excellency , the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
CLAUDE G. BOWERS
His Excellency RAUL JULIET GOMEZ Minister for Foreign Affairs of Chile Santiago

61 STAT. ]

HAITI- FINANCES- JULY 4, 1947

3097

Agreement between the United States of America and Haiti respecting Haitian finances . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Port-auPrince July 4, 1947; entered into force July 4, 1947.

July 4, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1643]

The Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

SECRÉTAIRERIE D'ETAT DES
RELATIONS EXTÉRIEURES

No. SG/A-3 : 903

PORT-AU-PRINCE, le 4 juillet 1947.

MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR,

J'ai l'honneur de faire savoir à Votre Excellence qu'à partir du 1er.

Août 1947 ou avant, le Gouvernement de la République d'Haiti donnera, en conformité de l'Article 5 des contrats d'emprunt des titres des séries A et C de 1922-1923, avis du rachat, le 1er. Octobre 1947 de tous les titres de ces émissions et des certificats d'intérêt des titres

de la série C, et informera qu'à ce sujet et pour d'autres buts publics , le Gouvernement de la République d'Haiti désire procéder immédiatement à l'émission d'un emprunt intérieur se chiffrant à dix millions de dollars.

Dans la mesure où cela sera nécessaire, le produit de l'emprunt intérieur projeté sera d'abord employé exclusivement au rachat des dits titres et certificats d'intérêt. A cette fin, le produit de l'emprunt intérieur sera remis au représentant désigné en Haiti des porteurs des titres des séries A et C. dès réception de ce produit par le Gouvernement de la République d'Haiti et ce représentant fera convertir ledit produit en dollars des Etats-Unis d'Amérique aussi promptement que possible et le fera transférer à l'agent fiscal des emprunts. Afin d'assurer encore davantage le rachat des dits titres et certificats d'intérêt au ler. Octobre 1947, mon Gouvernement conférera à l'agent fiscal des emprunts le pouvoir irrévocable de faire donner, au nom de mon Gouvernement, de la manière prévue, avis du rachat des dits titres , obtiendra de la Banque Nationale de la République d'Haiti et remettra à votre Gouvernement et à l'agent fiscal , avant la première publication de cet avis de rachat, l'engagement de la dite banque qu'au ler. Octobre 1947 ou avant, l'agent fiscal aura en dépôt , en fideicommis pour le rachat des dits titres et certificats d'intérêt à ladite date, une somme en dollars des Etats-Unis d'Amérique (en fonds immédiatement disponibles dans la ville de New-York) , suffisante pour le rachat de ceux-ci .
A ce sujet, je réfère Votre Excellence au second paragraphe de l'article 7 de l'Accord Exécutif du 13 septembre 1941 , qui prévoit que, jusqu'à complet amortissement de l'intégralité des titres de la dette extérieure de 1922 et 1923 du Gouvernement d'Haiti , la dette publique de la République d'Haiti ne sera pas augmentée sauf accord

3098

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

préalable entre les Gouvernements des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et de la République d'Haiti .
Je saurais gré à Votre Excellence de confirmer ce que pense mon Gouvernement , à savoir que le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis ne voit aucune objection à l'émission dudit emprunt intérieur, et que, lorsque l'avis du rachat des dits titres des séries A et C et des certificats d'intérêt des titres de la série C aura été donné conformément aux contrats d'emprunts et que des fonds suffisants pour leur rachat auront été déposés ès-mains de l'agent fiscal en fidéicommis pour le rachat des dits titres et certificats d'intérêt au 1er. Octobre 1947, comme prévu plus haut, le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis considérera que les conditions prévues au second paragraphe de l'article 11 de l'accord du 13 Septembre 1941 ont été remplies.
J'ai l'honneur d'informer Votre Excellence que mon Gouvernement considérera cette note conjointement avec une note de vous en réponse, comportant l'approbation de votre Gouvernement, comme constituant un accord entre les deux Gouvernements, dans les termes ci-dessus, en ce qui a trait à l'emprunt intérieur haitien projeté et au rachat des titres extérieurs de 1922 et 1923 en circulation et des certificats d'intérêt.
Veuillez agréer, Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, l'assurance de ma haute considération .
ED TH MANIGAT AV
Son Excellence Monsieur HAROLD H. TITTMANN,
Ambassadeur Extraordinaire et Plénipotentiaire des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, Port-au-Prince.

Translation

SECRETARY OF STATE OF FOREIGN RELATIONS

No. SG/A-3 : 903

PORT-AU-PRINCE, July 4 , 1947.

Proposed Haitian internal loan.

MR. AMBASSADOR : I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that, on or before
August 1 , 1947 , the Government of the Republic of Haiti will , in conformity with Article 5 of the loan contracts for bonds in Series A

and C of 1922-23 , issue redemption notices for October 1 , 1947 of all bonds of those issues and certificates of interest on Series C bonds and will announce that in this connection and for other public pur-

Redemption of desgnated bonds, etc.

poses the Government of the Republic of Haiti desires to proceed immediately to the floating of an internal loan amounting to the sum of 10 million dollars.
To the extent that this may be necessary, the proceeds of the internal loan proposed will be utilized in the first place exclusively for

the redemption of said bonds and certificates of interest. To this

end, the proceeds of the internal loan will be turned over to the des-

ignated representative in Haiti of the Series A and C bondholders

61 STAT.]

HAITI-FINANCES- JULY 4, 1947

3099

immediately upon receipt of such proceeds by the Government of the Republic of Haiti and this representative will have said proceeds converted into dollars of the United States of America as promptly as possible and will have the amount transferred to the fiscal agent of the loans . In order further to ensure the redemption of said bonds and certificates of interest by October 1 , 1947 , my Government will confer upon the fiscal agent of the loans irrevocable power to have notice of the redemption of said bonds issued , in the name of my Government , in the prescribed manner, and will obtain from the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti and remit to your Government and to the fiscal agent , before the first publication of such redemption notice, the undertaking of the said Bank that, by October 1 or before, the fiscal agent will have on deposit , in trust for the redemption of said bonds and certificates of interest on the said date a sum of United States dollars (in funds immediately available in the city of New York) sufficient for their redemption .
In this connection , I refer Your Excellency to the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Executive Agreement of September 13 , 1941 , which provides that, until the complete amortization of all the bonds of the foreign debt of 1922-23 of the Government of Haiti , the public debt of the Republic of Haiti shall not be increased except upon previous agreement between the Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Haiti .
I should appreciate it if Your Excellency would confirm what my Government believes , namely that the Government of the United States sees no objection to the floating of the internal loan and that, when the redemption notices for said bonds in Series A and C and certificates of interest in Series C bonds shall have been issued in
conformity with the loan contracts and when sufficient funds for their redemption shall have been deposited in the hands of the fiscal agent in trust for the redemption of said bonds and certificates of interest by October 1 , 1947 , as provided for above, the Government of the United States will consider that the conditions stipulated in the second paragraph of Article 11 of the Agreement of September 13 , 1941 will have been fulfilled .
I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that my Government will consider this note together with your note in reply containing the approval of your Government as constituting an agreement between our two Governments in the above terms, in relation to the proposed Haitian internal loan and the redemption of the foreign bonds of 1922 and 1923 in circulation and of the certificates of interest.
Please accept, Mr. Ambassador, the assurance of my high consideration.
ED TH MANIGAT AV
His Excellency Mr. HAROLD H. TITTMANN, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, Port-au-Prince.

55 Stat. 1355. 55 Stat. 1357.

3100 55 Stat. 1357.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

The American Ambassador to the Haitian Secretary of Statefor Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 263

Port-au-Prince, Haiti, July 4, 1947

EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's
note of July 4 , 1947 , with reference to the desire of Your Excellency's Government to float an internal loan in connection with its intention to redeem in their entirety the bonds and certificates of interest in Series C bonds of the external debt of 1922-1923 of the Government of Haiti.

In reply to the inquiry in Your Excellency's note of July 4, 1947 , I take pleasure in informing you, pursuant to instructions from my Government, as follows :
The Government of the United States of America is agreeable to the proposed internal loan.
The Government of the United States of America will consider the full execution of the undertakings set forth in your note, including the calling for redemption of the outstanding bonds of Series A and C and certificates of interest in Series C bonds and the deposit of monies with the fiscal agent in trust for the redemption of such bonds and certificates of interest, all as set forth in your note, as meeting the conditions set forth in the second paragraph of Article 11 of the Executive Agreement of September 13, 1941 .
The Government of the United States of America will consider Your Excellency's note, together with this note in reply, as constituting an agreement between the two Governments under the terms outlined above with respect to the proposed Haitian internal loan and redemption of outstanding external bonds of 1922-1923.
Accept, Excellency , the renewed assurances of my high consideration.
HAROLD H. TITTMANN

His Excellency EDMÉ TH. MANIGAT
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Port-au-Prince

61 STAT. ] NORWAY-PASSPORT VISA FEES-JULY 7, 29, 1947

3101

Agreement between the United States of America and Norway respecting passport visa fees . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington July 7 and 29, 1947 ; entered into force July 29 , 1947; effective August 1, 1947.

July 7 and 29, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1644]

The Norwegian Ambassador to the Secretary of State

NORWEGIAN EMBASSY WASHINGTON 7, D. C.
EXCELLENCY :

July 7, 1947.

With reference to recent conversations between representatives of

the Department of State and representatives of the Royal Norwegian

Embassy, relative to mutual waiver of visa requirements for non-im-

migrants , I have the honor to propose that the following agreement

be effected between the Government of Norway and the Government of the United States of America :

Waiver of visa re-
"The Norwegian Government on and after August 1 , 1947, will waive quirements, etc. , by visa requirements, but not passport requirements for American citizens Nmoernwte.gian Govern-

proceeding to continental Norway, and will waive the passport visa fees for American citizens proceeding to Norwegian territory outside continental Norway. American citizens , who desire to take employment

Permits .

in Norway or to stay there for a long period of time, will be required to obtain a permit, except in the cases of officials of the United States

Government, their families, servants and employees. Any number of

entries may be made into Norway without a visa. Effective on and after August 1 , 1947, the Government of the United
States of America will waive the passport visa fees for citizens or sub-

Waiver by U. S. of passport visa fees for
non-immigrants .

jects of Norway, who are bona fide non-immigrants within the meaning of the immigration laws of the United States, and who are proceeding to the United States and possessions. A non-immigrant passport visa granted by an American Consular Officer to a Norwegian citizen or subject is valid for any number of applications for admission within

a period of twenty-four months from date of issuance, provided the 99
passport of the bearer is valid for that period. '

In case Your Excellency's Government consents to the above form, your reply to that effect will be considered sufficient by my Government for the purpose of concluding the proposed agreement.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
W. MORGENSTIERNE His Excellency GEORGE C. MARSHALL,
Secretary of State, Washington, D.C.
No.: 257

3102

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Secretary of State to the Norwegian Ambassador

EXCELLENCY :

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON Jul 29 1947

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note no. 257 dated July 7, 1947 stating that the Norwegian Government is willing, on and after August 1 , 1947, to waive the visa fees for United States citizens who are nonimmigrants proceeding to Norway and to abolish the requirement for such visa , but not the passport, for United States citizens proceeding to continental Norway.
The United States Government has authorized its consular officers,

effective August 1 , 1947, to waive the fee for the visa and application therefor for nonimmigrants, other than officials, proceeding to the United States and its possessions who are subjects of Norway, the

visa to be valid for any number of entries into the United States

and its possessions within a period of twenty- four ( 24 ) months, provided that they hold valid Norwegian passports and the holder of the visa continues to maintain nonimmigrant status. The period of

validity of the visa relates to the period within which it may be used for presentation at a port of entry and not to the length of stay in the United States which will continue to be a matter for determination

by the immigration or other authorities.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .

For the Secretary of State : N. ARMOUR

His Excellency WILHELM MUNTHE DE MORGENSTIERNE, Ambassador of Norway.

811.11101 Waivers 57 /9-1045

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR- HEALTH AND SANITATION-JUNE 21, 1947

3103

Agreement between the United States of America and Ecuador respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Ecuador, further extending and modifying the agreement ofFebruary 24 , 1942. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Quito June 21 , 1947; entered into force June 21 , 1947.

June 21, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1645]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Ecuadoran Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 211 EXCELLENCY:

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Quito, June 21 , 1947

I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's note no . 503 of December

23, 1944 and the Ministry's reply, note no. 12-DDP-3 of January 15 , 1945 , the exchange of communications under which our govern-

ments agreed to continue until December 31 , 1947 the cooperative program of public health and sanitation in Ecuador initiated in 1942 .

Since Your Excellency's Government expressed a desire for an extension of this agreement, and since my government was agreeable to extend it in modified form to June 30, 1948 , Dr. Charles H. Miller ,

Special Representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, undertook to discuss the matter with the appropriate officials of the Ecuadoran Ministry of Social Welfare and Labor. Approval of these direct discussions between Dr. Miller and the Ministry of Social Welfare and Labor was given during my recent conversation with the Under Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Relations.
Enclosed is a copy of the agreement which they reached as signed

today by Dr. Miller for the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and by Dr. Adolfo Jurado Gonzalez for the Ministry of Social Welfare and Labor.

I would be glad if Your Excellency would be so good as to confirm to me your approval of the proposals set forth in this agreement.
It would be appreciated if I could have two signed copies of Your Excellency's reply.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
GEO. P. SHAW

Enclosures : Copy of Agreement. Copy of translation of Agreement.

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

His Excellency Doctor José VICENTE TRUJILLO, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Quito.

59 Stat. 1590. 57 Stat. 1370.

3104

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

EXTENSION AGREEMENT

57 Stat. 1370. 59 Stat. 1590.
Basic agreement. Extension. Servicio .

Relative to the Extension of the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program by the Government of Ecuador and the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs
This EXTENSION AGREEMENT between Dr. Adolfo Jurado González Minister of Social Welfare and Labor (hereinafter called the "Minister" ) , representing the Government of Ecuador, and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America (hereinafter called the "Institute" ) , represented by Dr. Charles H. Miller (hereinafter referred to as the "Special Representative" ) , is entered into for the purpose of recording an extension and modification of the cooperative health and sanitation program which was undertaken in Ecuador pursuant to the exchange of notes between His Excellency Señor Dr. Eduardo Salazar, Minister Counselor of the Ecuadorean Embassy to the United States and the Honorable Mr. Sumner Welles , Under Secretary of State of the United States on February 24, 1942 , as modified by subsequent exchange of notes between the Honorable Robert McGregor Scotten, Ambassador of the United States to Ecuador, and His Excellency Dr. Camilo Ponce Enriquez , Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ecuador, on December 23, 1944 and January 15 , 1945 , respectively, and in accordance with the agreement contained in the exchange of correspondence between the Representative of the Institute and the Minister of Social Welfare of Ecuador, dated January 4 and January 8, 1943 , ['] respectively, as further modified by later correspondence between the Executive Vice President of the Institute and the Minister of Social Welfare of Ecuador dated December 22, 1944, January 13, 1945, and January 18 , 1945 , [ '] (all of such notes and exchange of correspondence being hereafter collectively called the "Basic Agreement") .
CLAUSE I
The parties hereto mutually intend, agree and declare that the Basic Agreement, be and hereby is extended for an additional period of six months beginning the first day of January 1948 and ending the thirtieth day of June, 1948 and modified according to the clauses hereinafter set forth.
CLAUSE II
The cooperative health and sanitation program in Ecuador shall continue to be carried out through the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública (hereinafter called the "Servicio ") .

Field party.

CLAUSE III The Institute shall continue to be represented in Ecuador by a field party of its officials and technicians known as the "Field Party

[Not printed . ]

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-HEALTH AND SANITATION JUNE 21, 1947

3105

of the Health and Sanitation Division of The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs in Ecuador", and the Field Party shall remain under the immediate direction of an Institute official known as the "Chief

Chief.

of Field Party" . The Chief of Field Party shall continue to serve as

Director of the Servicio for the period comprehended by this Exten-
sion Agreement.
CLAUSE IV
Time extension for The balance (in the amount of approximately four hundred sixty deposit of Ecuadoran
balance. thousand sucres - S/. 460,000.00) of the deposit of nine hundred twenty
thousand sucres (S/. 920,000.00) required by the Basic Agreement to
be made by the Government of Ecuador during January, 1947 in the Banco Central del Ecuador (or any other bank mutually agreed upon

by the Minister and the Chief of Field Party) to the credit of the

Servicio for use in carrying out the cooperative program, has not been

made and the parties hereby agree to extend the time for making the

deposit of such balance of approximately S/. 460,000.00 and the

Government of Ecuador agrees to deposit such balance of funds in

the said bank to the account of the Servicio during the month of

August, 1947.

CLAUSE V

In addition to the funds required to be deposited by the parties Further financing of program .
pursuant to the Basic Agreement and the funds referred to in CLAUSE
IV hereof, the cooperative health and sanitation program will be further financed as follows:
A. The Institute shall contribute the sum of not to exceed $ 180,000 Contribution by Institute.
USC, of which amount $ 100,000 USC shall be deposited to the account of the Servicio in the bank mentioned in CLAUSE IV
hereof in the following manner:

During August 1947 ... During January 1948 .

040 A 920

$ 50, 000 50, 000

$ 100, 000
Salaries and exB. The Institute will use the balance of funds, in the amount of penses.
$ 80,000 USC, required to be contributed by this Extension Agree-

ment for payment of the salaries and expenses, including traveling expenses of the personnel of the Institute Field Party in Ecuador and other Institute employees . The sum of $ 80,000 USC will be retained by the Institute for these purposes and

maintained separate and apart from the funds required hereby

to be deposited to the account of the Servicio by the Institute and any unexpended portion of such retained funds shall remain

the property of the Institute.
C. The Government of Ecuador shall deposit in the account of the Servicio in the bank mentioned in CLAUSE IV hereof the sum of two hundred thousand dollars USC - $200,000.00 or its equiv-

Ecuadoran deposit.

3106

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

alent in sucres , computed at a rate of exchange not smaller than 13.4 sucres to the dollar, in the following manner:

One hundred thousand dollars, or its equivalent in sucres, during August, 1947.
One hundred thousand dollars, or its equivalent in sucres during January, 1948.

puFrcuhnadsseswiinthUh.elS.d for

D. The Institute may withhold from the deposits called for by CLAUSE V-A hereof the estimated amounts deemed necessary by the Minister and the Chief of Field Party to pay for the purchase in the United States of America of materials, supplies and equipment

and other expenses relating to the execution of the program. Any funds so withheld by the Institute shall be considered as deposited under the terms of CLAUSE V-A hereof but, if they are not ex-

pended or obligated for such purposes, they shall be deposited to the account of the Servicio at any time by mutual agreement of the Minister and the Chief of Field Party.

foArmdepnodsmite. nt ofdates E. By written agreement between the Minister and the Chief of

Field Party, the dates for making deposits, as fixed under CLAUSES
IV , V-A and V-C hereof may be amended according to the needs of the program .

al Rceocnetirpitbuotfioandsd.ition F. Contributions, in addition to those set out in CLAUSES IV, V-A

Interest, etc.

and V-C may be received at any time by the Servicio from any source whatsoever and expended by it in the same manner as other funds for the uses and objectives of the cooperative health and sanitation program provided that the receipt of any such additional contributions by the Servicio shall first be agreed upon in writing in advance by the Minister, the Chief of Field Party and the Director of the Servicio. G. Interest on funds of the Servicio, and any income, upon investments of the Servicio, and any increment of assets of the Servicio of whatever nature of source , shall be dedicated to the realization of the program and shall not be credited against the contributions of the Government of Ecuador or of the Institute.

CLAUSE VI

Use of funds for maintenance of proj- The funds provided in this Extension Agreement for deposit to the ects, etc.
Servicio may be used for maintaining projects in operation, and for

projects to be placed in operation. The cooperative health and saniProject agreements. tation program shall continue to consist of individual projects. Each

project shall be embodied in a written project agreement which shall

be mutually accepted and signed by the Minister , the Chief of Field Party and the Director of the Servicio . Each project agreement shall

define the nature of the work to be done, the allocation of funds there-

for, the parties responsible for the execution of the project and any

istTrraatnisofne, retco.f admin

other matters which the contracting parties may wish to determine. The transfer from the Servicio to the Ministry of Social Welfare
and Labor, or otherwise, of the administration, operation , control and

ownership of the individual projects shall be determined and pre-

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR- HEALTH AND SANITATION-JUNE 21, 1947

3107

scribed for in written agreements signed by the Minister, the Chief of Party and the Director of the Servicio .

CLAUSE VII

Determination of The general policies and procedures governing the realization of policies, etc.
the cooperative health and sanitation program, the carrying out of the projects, and the operations of the Servicio such as, but not limited

to, the disbursement and accounting of funds, the purchase, use,

inventory, control and disposition of property, and any other admin-

istrative matters , shall be determined and established by mutual

agreement between the Minister, the Chief of Field Party and the

Director of the Servicio . The procedures and methods established

and in use for the operation of the Servicio under the Basic Agreement

shall continue to apply to the operation of the Servicio during the pe-

riod fixed in this Extension Agreement unless changed and ammended

as herein provided .

CLAUSE VIII

Exemption from The Servicio, an integral part of the Ecuadorean Government, shall taxes,etc.
be exempt and immuned from any and all taxes, fees, charges, imposts
and custom duties, whether national, provincial or municipal and from all requirements for licences.

CLAUSE IX

For the purpose of this agreement , the Government of Ecuador accepts and recognizes the Institute as a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America and therefore, among other things, the Institute shall be exempt from all import and export tariffs, taxes, contributions and other charges.

CLAUSE X
Delegation of auThe Minister, the Chief of Field Party and the Director of the thority,etc.
Servicio are empowered to delegate their authority, prerogatives and functions to duly appointed representatives of their own choosing provided that each such representative shall be satisfactory to the said official of the other government.

CLAUSE XI

This

Extension

Agreement

shall

become

effective

upon

the

ex-

Effectivity of Extension Agreement.

change of diplomatic notes concerning the health and sanitation

program between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government

of Ecuador and the Embassy of the United States of America to Ecua-

dor, or upon the date of execution hereof, in the event such notes have heretofore been exchanged . The Basic Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the purpose of extending the cooperative health

Continuance in force of Basic Agreement.

and sanitation program, except as it is modified or is inconsistent with this Extension Agreement .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Extension Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representa-

3108

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

tives, in duplicate in the English and Spanish languages at Quito, Ecuador, this 21 Jun . 1947 day of June, 1947.

MINISTRY OF SOCIAL WELFARE AND LABOR

THE INSTITUTE OF INTERAMERICAN AFFAIRS

By A JURADO Minister

By Dr. CHARLES H. MILLER Special Representative

CONVENIO DE PRORROGA

Relativo a la prórroga del Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento, acordado por el Gobierno del Ecuador y el Institute of Inter-American Affairs .
Este CONVENIO DE PRORROGA, suscrito entre el Dr. Adolfo Jurado González , Ministro de Previsión Social y Trabajo (que en adelante se llamará "El Ministro ") , en representación del Gobierno del Ecuador, y el Institute of Inter-American Affairs , una Corporación y una Agencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América (que en adelante se llamará "El Instituto" ) , representado por el Dr. Charles H. Miller (que en adelante será designado como "Representante Especial" ) , se lo celebra con el propósito de hacer constar una prórroga y modificación del Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento que se llevó a cabo en el Ecuador de conformidad con el cambio de notas cruzadas entre su Excelencia el Sr. Dr. Eduardo Salazar, Ministro Consejero de la Embajada del Ecuador en los Estados Unidos de América, y el Honorable Sr. Sumner Welles, Subsecretario de Estado de los Estados Unidos de América , el 24 de Febrero de 1942 , modificado por el cambio de comunicaciones dirigidas entre el Honorable Robert McGregor Scotten, Embajador de los Estados Unidos de América en el Ecuador, y su Excelencia el Dr. Camilo Ponce Enríquez, Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores del Ecuador, el 23 de Diciembre de 1944 y el 15 de Enero de 1945 , respectivamente, y de acuerdo con el convenio contenido en el cambio de notas cruzadas entre el Representante del Instituto y el Ministro de Previsión Social y Trabajo del Ecuador, fechadas el 4 de Enero y el 8 de Enero de 1943 , respectivamente, modificado posteriormente por medio de las comunicaciones cruzadas entre el Vicepresidente Ejecutivo del Instituto y el Ministro de Previsión Social y Trabajo del Ecuador, fechadas el 22 de Diciembre de 1944 , el 13 de Enero de 1945 y el 18 de Enero de 1945, (notas y cambio de correspondencia, todas, que en adelante se las denominará, colectivamente , como el "Convenio Básico") .
CLAUSULA I
Las partes suscriptoras del presente, mutuamente proponen, convienen y declaran que el Convenio Básico sea prorrogado, como en efecto lo prorrogan, por un período adicional de seis meses, que iniciará el primer día del mes de Enero de 1948 y que terminará el trigésimo día del mes de Junio de 1948 ; como también que sea él modificado de conformidad con lo estipulado en las cláusulas que más adelante se detallan .

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-HEALTH AND SANITATION JUNE 21, 1947

CLAUSULA II

El Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento en el Ecuador habrá de continuar siendo llevado a efecto por medio del Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública (que en adelante se llamará "El Servicio").
CLAUSULA III

El Instituto continuará siendo representado en el Ecuador por un conjunto de sus Oficiales y técnicos , conocido como el "Field Party of the Health and Sanitation Division of the Institute of Inter-American
Affairs in Ecuador", y ese conjunto o "Field Party" continuará bajo la dirección inmediata de un Oficial del Instituto conocido como el
"Chief of Field Party" . El Chief of Field Party continuará actuando como Director del Servicio durante el período cubierto por este Convenio de Prórroga.
CLAUSULA IV

El saldo (que se eleva a la cantidad de, aproximadamente, cuatrocientos sesenta mil sucres -S/.460.000,00) , del depósito de novecientos veinte mil sucres (S/.920.000,00) que, según el Convenio Básico debió ser hecho por el Gobierno del Ecuador durante el mes de Enero de 1947 en el Banco Central del Ecuador, de Quito (o en cualquier otro Banco mutuamente convenido para el efecto por el Ministro y el Chief of Field Party) para el crédito del Servicio y para ser usado en el cumplimiento del Programa Cooperativo , no ha sido aún efectuado ; y las partes suscriptoras del presente Convenio acuerdan por medio de éste, ampliar el plazo para la realización del depósito de dicho saldo , de aproximadamente S/. 460.000,00 , y el Gobierno del Ecuador conviene en efectuar el depósito de tal saldo de fondos en dicho Banco, en la cuenta del Servicio , durante el mes de Agosto de 1947 .

CLAUSULA V
Además de los fondos que debe ser depositados por las partes, de conformidad con el Convenio Básico , y de los fondos a que se refiere la CLAUSULA IV del presente , el Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento será en lo futuro financiado como sigue:

A. El Instituto contribuirá con una suma que no excederá de $ 180.000,00 USC , de la cual $ 100.000,00 USC serán depositados en la cuenta del Servicio en el Banco que se menciona en la CLAUSULA IV de este Convenio , de la siguiente manera:

Durante Agosto de 1947 . · Durante Enero de 1948 ·

·· · $ 50. 000, 00 66 50. 000, 00

$ 100. 000, 00

B. El Instituto usará el saldo de fondos, en la suma de $ 80.000,00 USC , de su contribución requerida por este Convenio de prórroga, en el pago de sueldos y gastos, inclusive gastos de viaje, del personal del Field Party del Instituto en el Ecuador y de otros empleados del Instituto . La suma de $ 80.000,00 USC será retenida por el Instituto para estos propósitos , y será mantenida 95347 °-49- PT. III-- -53

3109

3110

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
separadamente y aparte de los fondos que por medio de este Convenio deben ser depositados por el Instituto en la cuenta del Servicio, y cualesquiera cantidad que quedare como no gastada de tales fondos retenidos, quedará de propiedad del Instituto.
C. El Gobierno del Ecuador depositará en la cuenta del Servicio, en el Banco mencionado en la CLAUSULA IV de este Convenio , la suma de doscientos mil dólares USC -$ 200.000,00- o su equivalente en sucres, computados a un tipo de cambio no menor de 13.4 sucres por dólar, de la siguiente manera: Cien mil dólares, o su equivalente en sucres, durante Agosto de 1947. Cien mil dólares, o su equivalente en sucres, durante Enero de 1948.
D. El Instituto podrá retener en su poder, de los fondos a depositarse, mencionados en la CLAUSULA V-A del presente Convenio, las sumas que se calculen como necesarias por el Ministro y el Chief of Field Party , para el pago de las compras que se hagan en los Estados Unidos de América , de materiales y equipos y de otros gastos relativos a la ejecución del Programa . Cualesquiera fondos que así fueran retenidos por el Instituto se considerarán como depositados de conformidad con los términos de la CLAUSULA V-A de este Convenio ; pero , si no fueren gastados u obligados para tales propósitos, serán depositados en la cuenta del Servicio, en cualquier tiempo , mediante mutuo convenio entre el Ministro y el Chief of Field Party.
E. Mediante Convenio escrito , entre el Ministro y el Chief of Field Party, podrán ser modificadas, de acuerdo con las necesidades del Programa, las fechas que para la realización de depósitos se determinan en las CLAUSULAS IV, V-A y V-C del presente Convenio .
F. El Servicio podrá recibir en cualquier tiempo y de cualesquiera fuentes, contribuciones adicionales a aquellas que se determinan en las CLAUSULAS IV, V-A y V-C, y podrá gastarlas de manera igual a la de otros fondos, en los usos y propósitos del Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento , siempre que el recibo de tales contribuciones adicionales por parte del Servicio sea previamente convenido , por escrito , por el Ministro , el Chief of Field Party y el Director del Servicio .
G. Intereses percibidos sobre fondos del Servicio y cualquier otro ingreso sobre inversiones del Servicio , como también cualquier incremento de Activos del Servicio , de cualesquiera naturaleza o fuente, serán dedicados a la realización del Programa, y no serán acreditados como parte de las contribuciones del Gobierno del Ecuador o del Instituto .
CLAUSULA VI
Los fondos provistos por este Convenio de Prórroga para depósito en la cuenta del Servicio , podrán ser usados en el mantenimiento de Proyectos en operación y en Proyectos a ser puestos en operación. El Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento continuará consistiendo en Proyectos individuales . Cada Proyecto será incorporado

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR- HEALTH AND SANITATION JUNE 21, 1947

en un Convenio de Proyecto escrito , que será mutuamente aceptado y suscrito por el Ministro, el Chief of Field Party y el Director del Servicio. Cada Convenio de Proyecto definirá la naturaleza del trabajo a realizarse, la asignación de fondos para el objeto , las partes responsables de la ejecución del Proyecto y cualesquiera otros asuntos que las partes contratantes deseen determinar. La transferencia , del Servicio al Ministerio de Previsión Social y Trabajo, o , en otros términos, el traspaso de la administración, operación, control y propiedad de los Proyectos individuales se prescribirán y determinarán en convenios escritos suscritos por el Ministro , el Chief of Field Party y el Director del Servicio. CLAUSULA VII

La política y procedimientos generales que gobiernan la realización

del Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento ; la realización de los Proyectos y las operaciones del Servicio, tales como, pero no limitadas a- el desembolso y la contabilización de fondos, la compra,

uso, inventario , control y disposición de propiedades o pertenencias , y cualesquiera otros asuntos administrativos, deberán determinarse y

establecerse por convenio mutuo entre el Ministro , el Chief of Field

Party y el Director del Servicio . Los procedimientos y métodos

establecidos y en uso en la operación del Servicio bajo el Convenio

Básico, continuarán aplicándose en la operación del Servicio durante

el período fijado en este Convenio de Prórroga, a menos que fueren

objeto de cambio o modificación en virtud de las provisiones del

presente .

CLAUSULA VIII

El Servicio una parte integral del Gobierno del Ecuador-, estará excento e inmune de cualquier y todo impuesto , derecho , tasa, cargo y derecho de importación , sean nacionales, provinciales o municipales , como también lo estará excento de todo requisito de solicitudes de licencia .
CLAUSULA IX

Para los propósitos de este Convenio, el Gobierno del Ecuador acepta y reconoce al Instituto como una Corporación y una Agencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, y, por consiguiente , el Instituto se hallará excento del pago de todo derecho de importación y exportación, de tarifas, impuestos , contribuciones y otros cargos.
CLAUSULA X

El Ministro , el Chief of Field Party y el Director del Servicio están facultados para delegar su autoridad , prerrogativas y funciones a representantes debidamente designados, de su propia elección , siempre que cada uno de tales representantes satisfaga al Oficial o funcionario mencionados, del otro Gobierno.

CLAUSULA XI
Este Convenio de Prórroga entrará en vigencia con el cambio de notas diplomáticas concernientes al Programa de Salud y Saneamiento , entre el Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores del Gobierno del Ecuador

3111

3112

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

y la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América en el Ecuador, o en la fecha de la ejecución del mismo , en el evento de que tales notas hayan sido ya cruzadas. El Convenio Básico continuará en completa vigencia y efecto , para el propósito de la prórroga del Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento , con las excepciones de las modificaciones o inconsistencias de que él sea objeto , en virtud de este Convenio de Prórroga.

EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes han formulado este Convenio de Prórroga, para que sea ejecutado por sus representantes debidamente
autorizados , en duplicado , en los idiomas Inglés y Español, en Quito, a 21 Jun. 1947 de Junio de 1947.

POR EL MINISTERIO DE PREVISION SOCIAL Y TRABAJO ,
A JURADO Ministro

POR EL INSTITUTE OF INTERAMERICAN AFFAIRS,
Dr. CHARLES H. MILLER Representante Especial

The Ecuadoran Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

REPÚBLICA DEL ECUADOR MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

DEPARTAMENTO DIPLOMATICO

N° 150-DDP.

QUITO, a 21 de Junio de 1947

SEÑOR ENCARGADO DE NEGOCIOS: Tengo a honra avisar recibo de la atenta nota de Vuestra Señoría
número 211 , de 21 de junio del año en curso, en la cual se refiere a las comunicaciones números 503 , de 23 de diciembre de 1944 , y 12-DDP-3 , de 15 de enero de 1945 , intercambiadas entre esa Embajada y este Ministerio, respectivamente, por las cuales nuestros dos Gobiernos convinieron en continuar, hasta el 31 de diciembre de 1947 , el programa cooperativo de salud pública y saneamiento del Ecuador, que se inició en el año 1942 .

2. Añade Vuestra Señoría que desde que mi Gobierno propuso al de Vuestra Señoría prorrogar este Convenio , previas reformas del caso , hasta el 30 de junio de 1948 , el doctor Charles H. Miller, Representante Especial del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos , comenzó a discutir con las Autoridades competentes del Ecuador tales reformas , las mismas que han sido aprobadas definitivamente y que constan en el Acuerdo firmado en esta fecha por el señor doctor Adolfo Jurado González, Ministro de Previsión Social y Trabajo , y el doctor Miller , en representación del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos .

3. Copias del mencionado Acuerdo se sirve remitirme Vuestra Señoría con la nota que contesto .
4. Sobre este asunto me es grato indicar a Vuestra Señoría que el Gobierno del Ecuador acepta y ratifica los términos convenidos en el citado Acuerdo.

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR- HEALTH AND SANITATION- JUNE 21, 1947

3113

5. Ruego a Vuestra Señoría se digne expresar al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de Norte América el reconocimiento del de mi País por esta prueba de amistosa cooperación .

Válgome de la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Señoría las

seguridades de mi distinguida consideración .

JOSE. TRUJILLO

Al Honorable Señor Don GEO. P. SHAW,

Encargado de Negocios ad-interim de los Estados Unidos de Norte América.

Translation
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS

DIPLOMATIC DEPARTMENT

No. 150-DDP.

MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES :

QUITO, June 21 , 1947

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your courteous note number 211 of June 21 of the current year, in which reference is made to communications numbered 503 of December 23 , 1944 , and 12-

DDP-3 of January 15 , 1945 , exchanged between your Embassy and this Ministry, respectively, by which our two Governments agreed to continue, until December 31 , 1947 , the co-operative program of public health and sanitation in Ecuador, which was inaugurated in

the year 1942.

2. You add that, after my Government proposed to your Government to extend the said Agreement, subject to amendments thereto , until June 30 , 1948 , Dr. Charles H. Miller, Special Representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, began to discuss the said amendments with the proper Authorities of Ecuador-the same amendments that have been definitively approved and that appear in the Agreement signed today by Doctor Adolfo Jurado González , Minister of Social Security and Labor, and Doctor Miller, representing the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .

Ante, p. 3103. 59 Stat. 1590.
57 Stat. 1370.

3. You were good enough to transmit copies of the above-mentioned Agreement to me with the note which I am answering.
Ecuadoran accept4. Concerning this matter, I am happy to inform you that the Govern- ance of terms of agreement of Ecuador accepts and ratifies the terms agreed upon in the ment. above-mentioned Agreement.

5. I beg Your Honor to be so good as to express to the Government of the United States of North America the thanks of the Government of my country for this proof of friendly co-operation .
I avail myself of this occasion to renew to you the assurances of my distinguished consideration.
JOSÉ TRUJILLO The Honorable GEO . P. SHAW,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of North America.

3114

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

May 13, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1646]

Agreement between the United States of America and Honduras respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Honduras, further amending and extending the agreement of May 8, 1942. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Tegucigalpa May 13, 1947; entered into force May 13, 1947; effective from May 1 , 1947.

The Honduran Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES DE LA
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS

PALACIO NACIONAL:

No. 3439.

Tegucigalpa, D.C. , 13 de mayo de 1947.

HONORABLE SEÑOR:

De acuerdo con la cláusula XIII del CONVENIO DE PRORROGA

relacionado con la extensión del Programa Cooperativo de Sanidad y Saneamiento establecidos por el Gobierno de Honduras y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, firmado en esta ciudad de Tegucigalpa el día nueve de mayo en curso, en dos ejemplares, cada uno de ellos

escrito en inglés y en castellano , tengo el honor de dirigir la presente nota a Su Señoría , manifestándole que el Gobierno de Honduras aprueba el dicho Convenio , cuyo texto en castellano es el siguiente:

"CONVENIO DE PRORROGA

Relacionado con la extensión del Programa Cooperativo de Sanidad y Saneamiento establecido por el Gobierno de Honduras y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos.
Se celebra el presente Convenio entre el Gobierno de Honduras, representado por el Lic. Cecilio Colindres Zepeda, Sub-Secretario de Estado, encargado de los Despachos de Gobernación, Justicia, Sanidad y Beneficencia de Honduras (que en adelante se denominará "Ministro ") y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, que es una agencia incorporada del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América (que en adelante se denominará el "Instituto ") representado por el Dr. Marcus H. Flinter, Jefe en Honduras de la Sección de Sanidad y Saneamiento del Instituto (que en adelante se denominará "Jefe del Instituto ") con el propósito de hacer constar la extensión y modificaciones del Programa Cooperativo de Sanidad y saneamiento , establecido de acuerdo con el convenio celebrado entre el Instituto y el Gobierno de Honduras el 8 de Julio de 1942 , y modificado por medio del intercambio de notas entre el Vicepresidente Ejecutivo del Instituto y el Ministro de Gobernación, Justicia , Sanidad y Beneficencia, con fecha 19 de Abril de 1944. (Ambos convenios se denominarán en adelante el "Convenio Básico ") .

61 STAT.] HONDURAS-HEALTH AND SANITATION-MAY 13, 1947

CLAUSULA I

Ambas partes convienen y declaran que el Convenio Básico es por este medio extendido por un período adicional de 14 meses, a partir del 1º de Mayo de 1947 hasta el 30 de Junio de 1948, y es modificado de acuerdo con las Cláusulas que a continuación se exponen.

CLAUSULA II

La obligación financiera del Instituto contraída bajo el Convenio Básico , se considera satisfecha con la contribución al programa de $ 800,000 en moneda americana, materiales, enseres y equipos de toda clase . Asimismo , la obligación financiera del Gobierno de Honduras contraída bajo el Convenio Básico se considera también cumplida con la contribución del equivalente en Lempiras de $ 300,000 moneda americana .
CLAUSULA III
El Instituto continuará siendo representado en Honduras por un grupo de empleados y técnicos conocido como el "Cuerpo de Operaciones del Area (Field Party) del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos en Honduras " bajo la dirección del Jefe del Instituto, quien asimismo continuará ejerciendo el cargo de Director del Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública (que en adelante se denominará el "SCISP" ) por el período comprendido en el presente convenio de extensión.
CLAUSULA IV

Además de los fondos requeridos como contribución de las partes conforme al Convenio Básico , el Programa Cooperativo de Sanidad y Saneamiento será además financiado durante el período establecido por el presente Convenio de Extensión en la forma siguiente :

A. El Instituto depositará $ 25,000 en el Banco de Honduras a la

cuenta del SCISP en el mes de Mayo de 1947.

B. El Gobierno de Honduras depositará en el Banco de Honduras

a la cuenta del "SCISP" la suma de L. 250,000 Lempiras (o el equiva-

lente en moneda americana de $ 125,000 calculados al tipo de cambio

actual de L. 2.00 por cada Dólar Americano) en la forma siguiente :

En el mes de Mayo, 1947 · · · · En el mes de Octubre, 1947 ·

· · 150,000 Lemp66iras · 100,000

Total ·

66 250,000

C. El Instituto podrá retener del depósito estipulado en la presente Clausula IV-A, las cantidades calculadas necesarias por el Ministro y el Jefe del Programa para pagar por la compra en los Estados Unidos de materiales , abastecimientos y equipo además de otros gastos relacionados con la ejecución del programa . Todos los fondos retenidos por el Instituto para tales fines serán considerados como en depósito bajo los términos de la presente Clausula IV-A, pero en caso de que estos no sean gastados u obligados para tales propósitos, entonces serán depositados en el Banco de Honduras a la orden del SCISP en cualquier tiempo que sea convenido mutuamente entre el Ministro y el Jefe del Instituto .

3115

3116

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
D. Las fechas para efectuar los depósitos conforme a lo estipulado en la Cláusula IV-A y IV-B pueden modificarse de acuerdo con las necesidades del programa, mediante convenio por escrito entre el Ministro y el Jefe del Instituto .
E. Contribuciones, además de aquellas mencionadas en la Cláusula IV-A y IV-B podrán recibirse por el SCISP de cualesquiera fuente y gastados por esa entidad de la misma forma que otros fondos para los usos y objetivos del programa cooperativo de salud y saneamiento.
F. Cualesquiera de los fondos o propiedad adquiridos por el SCISP no gastados , usados u obligados a la terminación del período especificado en el presente Convenio de Extensión, quedarán como propiedad del Gobierno de Honduras y continuarán usándose para los fines del Programa Cooperativo de Sanidad y Saneamiento en la forma que se convenga por escrito entre el Ministerio y el Jefe del Instituto.
CLAUSULA V
El Programa Cooperativo de Sanidad y Saneamiento continuará desarrollándose por medio de proyectos individuales . Cada proyecto será contenido en un convenio de proyecto que será aceptado mutuamente y firmado por el Ministro, el Director del SCISP y Jefe del Instituto. Cada convenio de proyecto definirá la naturaleza de la obra por hacerse, la asignación de fondos para el mismo , el personal responsable para la ejecución de la obra y cualquier otro asunto que las partes contratantes deseen especificar.
CLAUSULA VI
Los procedimientos y métodos establecidos y en uso actualmente para la operación del SCISP, conforme al Convenio Básico modificado , continuarán aplicándose en la operación del SCISP durante el período establecido por el presente Convenio de Extensión . El Director del SCISP, con la aprobación del Ministro de Sanidad, elaborará el presupuesto correspondiente, asignando para cada proyecto los fondos y gastos necesarios lo mismo que los sueldos de los empleados , salvo aquellos nombrados por el Instituto para cada año económico .
CLAUSULA VII
Los libros, registros y cuentas del SCISP estarán en todo tiempo listos para ser examinados por los representantes del Gobierno de Honduras y del Instituto . El Director del SCISP rendirá informes al Gobierno de Honduras y al Instituto con la frecuencia que designen el Ministro y el Jefe del Instituto .
CLAUSULA VIII
Todos los materiales importados para los trabajos y actividades del SCISP serán introducidos al país libres de derechos aduanales y de cualesquiera otro impuesto o gasto oficial. Hasta donde sea posible, el SCISP usará para la ejecución de las obras, solamente materiales e implementos producidos en el país.

61 STAT. ] HONDURAS--HEALTH AND SANITATION--MAY 13, 1947
CLAUSULA IX
Todos los empleados del SCISP, a excepción de aquellos asignados al SCISP por el Instituto , serán nombrados, contratados destituídos por el Ministro de Sanidad , por recomendación del Director del SCISP. Los sueldos y gastos, incluyendo los de viajes del personal norteamericano del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos empleados en Honduras, serán pagados por el Instituto y no de los fondos asignados al SCISP .
CLAUSULA X
Todos los proyectos ejecutados bajo este contrato serán propiedad exclusiva del Gobierno y pueblo de Honduras.
CLAUSULA XI
Para los fines expuestos en el presente Convenio , el Gobierno de Honduras acepta y reconoce al Instituto como agencia incorporada del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América y por lo consiguiente la propiedad y fondos pertenecientes al Instituto quedan, entre otras cosas , exentos de todo impuesto de importación o exportación, tarifas, contribuciones y otros cargos.
CLAUSULA XII
El Ministro, el Jefe del Instituto y director del SCISP están facultados a delegar su autoridad, prerrogativas y funciones a representantes debidamente designados y elegidos por ellos.
CLAUSULA XIII
Este Convenio de Extensión entrará en vigor al completarse el intercambio de notas diplomáticas concernientes al Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento entre el Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores del Gobierno de Honduras y la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América en Honduras o en la fecha de ejecución en el caso que tales notas se hayan cruzado anteriormente. El Convenio Básico permanecerá en todo su vigor y efecto para el fin de extender el Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento excepto como sea modificado o si está en conflicto con este Convenio de Extensión.
EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes por la presente han causado que sea ejecutado este Convenio de Extensión por sus representantes debidamente autorizados, en duplicado en los idiomas Inglés y Castellano en Tegucigalpa, Honduras , este noveno día del mes de Mayo de 1947.
POR EL GOBIERNO DE HONDURAS POR EL INSTITUTO DE ASUNTOS INTERAMERICANOS
(f) CECILIO COLINDRES ZEPEDA (f) MARCUS H. FLINTER . "
En espera de la contestación de Su Señoría, con la cual, si fuere de aprobación, quedará efectuado el canje de notas previsto en la Cláu-

3117

3118

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT. sula XIII del Convenio de Prórroga para que éste entre en vigor, me es grato reiterarle el testimonio de mi distinguida consideración,
Silveris Lamez Silverio Lainez

Honorable Señor JOHN B. FAUST, Encargado de Negocios a.i. de los Estados Unidos de América . Embajada Americana.

Ante, p. 2334.

Translation
DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

No. 3439.

NATIONAL Palace : Tegucigalpa, D.C. , May 13, 1947.

SIR :

In accordance with Clause XIII of the EXTENSION AGREEMENT

relative to the extension of the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program established by the Government of Honduras and the Insti-

tute of Inter-American Affairs , signed in this city of Tegucigalpa on May 9 last, in two copies, each written in English and in Spanish, I have the honor to send you the present note, informing you that

the Government of Honduras approves the said Agreement, the text of which in Spanish is as follows :

"EXTENSION AGREEMENT
Relative to the extension of the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program drawn up by the Government of Honduras and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .
The present Agreement is concluded between the Government of Honduras, represented by Lic . Cecilio Colindres Zepeda, Under Secretary of State in charge of the Departments of the Interior , Justice, Health and Social Welfare of Honduras (hereinafter called "the Minister") and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, which is an incorporated agency of the Government of the United States of America (hereinafter called the "Institute") represented by Dr. Marcus H. Flinter, Head in Honduras of the Health and Sanitation Section of the Institute (hereinafter called "Head of the Institute") for the purpose of recording the extension of and amendments to the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program , established in accordance with the Agreement concluded between the Institute and the Government of Honduras on July 8, 1942 , and amended through the

61 STAT. ] HONDURAS-HEALTH AND SANITATION-MAY 13, 1947

3119

exchange of notes between the Executive Vice President of the Institute and the Minister of the Interior, Justice , Health and Social Welfare, of April 19 , 1944. (Both agreements hereinafter called the "Basic Agreement" ) .

Ante, p. 2324.

CLAUSE I Extension of Basic
Both Parties agree and declare that the Basic Agreement shall here- Agreement. by be extended for an additional period of 14 months, from May 1 , 1947 until June 30, 1948 , and amended by the Clauses hereinafter set forth.
CLAUSE II Financial obliga-
The financial obligation of the Institute contracted under the Basic tions. Agreement shall be considered to have been met by the contribution to the program of $800,000 in American currency, materials, supplies
and equipment of all kinds. Furthermore, the financial obligation of the Government of Honduras contracted under the Basic Agreement shall also be considered to have been fulfilled by the contribution of the
equivalent in Lempiras of $ 300,000 American currency.
CLAUSE III The Institute shall continue to be represented in Honduras by a InsRteiptruetseentation of group of employees and experts known as the "Field Party of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs in Honduras " under the direction of the Head of the Institute , who shall also continue to discharge the duties of Director of the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública [Inter-American Cooperative Public Health Service] (hereinafter called the "SCISP" ) for the period included in the present Extension Agreement.
CLAUSE IV
Additional finanoIn addition to the funds required as a contribution of the parties ing of program." in conformity with the Basic Agreement, the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program shall also be financed during the period established by the present Extension Agreement as follows :

A. The Institute shall deposit $25,000 in the Bank of Honduras to

the account of the SCISP in May 1947.

B. The Government of Honduras shall deposit in the Bank of

Honduras to the account of the "SCISP" the sum of 250,000 Lempiras

(or the equivalent in American currency of $ 125,000 figured at the

present exchange rate of 2 Lempiras per American Dollar) as follows :

In May 1947. · . In October 1947 ·

· 150, 000 Lempiras · 100, 000



Total . ·

250,000 ""

Funds withheld for C. The Institute may withhold from the deposit stipulated in purchases in U. S.

Clause IV-A the amounts considered necessary by the Minister and

the Head of the Program to pay for the purchase in the United States

of materials, supplies and equipment in addition to other expenses connected with the execution of the Program. All the funds with-

held by the Institute for such purposes shall be considered as on deposit

3120

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 Stat.

under the terms of Clause IV-A, but, if the latter are not spent or

pledged for such purposes, they shall then be deposited in the Bank of Honduras to the order of the SCISP at any time mutually agreed

Changes in dates for deposit.

upon between the Minister and the Head of the Institute . D. The dates for making deposits in conformity with the stipula-
tions in Clauses IV-A and IV-B may be changed in accordance with

Additional butions.

contri-

the requirements of the Program, through a written agreement between the Minister and the Head of the Institute.
E. Contributions, in addition to those mentioned in Clauses IV-A and IV-B, may be received by the SCISP from any source and spent

by that organization in the same manner as other funds for the use and

Unused funds and property .

purposes of the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program. F. Any of the funds or property acquired by the SCISP which are
not spent, used or pledged at the end of the period specified in the

present Extension Agreement shall remain the property of the Govern-

ment of Honduras and shall continue to be used for the purposes of the

Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program in such manner as may

be agreed upon in writing between the Ministry and the Head of the Institute .

CLAUSE V

Project agreements. The Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program shall continue to

be developed through individual projects . Each project shall be

contained in a project agreement which shall be mutually accepted

and signed by the Minister, the Director of the SCISP and the Head

of the Institute. Each project agreement shall define the nature of

the work to be done , the assignment of funds therefor, the personnel

responsible for carrying out the work and any other matter which the

Contracting Parties desire to specify.

CLAUSE VI

Operation of SCISP. The procedures and methods established and in use at the present

time for the operation of the SCISP , in conformity with the amended

Basic Agreement, shall continue to be applied in the operation of the

SCISP during the period established by the present Extension Agree-

ment . The Director of the SCISP, with the approval of the Minister

of Health, shall draw up the pertinent budget, assigning for each

project the funds and expenses necessary as well as the pay of the

employees , except those appointed by the Institute for each fiscal

year.

CLAUSE VII

Records; reports.

The books, records and accounts of the SCISP shall be open at all times to inspection by the representatives of the Government of Honduras and of the Institute. The Director of the SCISP shall

make reports to the Government of Honduras and to the Institute as often as the Minister and the Head of the Institute require.

Materials.

CLAUSE VIII
All materials imported for the work and activities of the SCISP shall be brought into the country free of customs duties and of any other official tax or charge. Whenever possible, the SCISP shall use

61 STAT. ] HONDURAS--HEALTH AND SANITATION--MAY 13, 1947

3121

for carrying out the work only materials and tools produced in the

country .

CLAUSE IX

All employees of the SCISP, with the exception of those assigned to the SCISP by the Institute , shall be appointed , engaged and discharged by the Minister of Health, upon recommendation of the Director of the SCISP . The salaries and expenses, including traveling expenses of North American personnel of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs employed in Honduras, shall be paid by the Institute and not from the funds assigned to the SCISP.

Personnel.

CLAUSE X
Ownership of projAll projects carried out under this contract shall be the exclusive ects.
property of the Government and the people of Honduras.

CLAUSE XI
For the purposes set forth in the present Agreement, the Government of Honduras accepts and recognizes the Institute as an incorporated agency of the Government of the United States of America and, therefore, the property and funds belonging to the Institute shall remain, among other things, exempt from all import or export taxes , tariffs, fees and other charges.

Tax exemption, etc.

CLAUSE XII

The Minister, the Head of the Institute and Director of the SCISP

Delegation thority .

of au-

shall be empowered to delegate their authority, prerogatives and

functions to representatives duly appointed and elected by them.

CLAUSE XIII

This Extension Agreement shall enter into effect upon completion of the exchange of diplomatic notes concerning the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program between the Ministry of Foreign

Effectivity of Extension and Basic Agree-
ments.

Relations of the Government of Honduras and the Embassy of the United States of America in Honduras or on the date of conclusion

[of the Extension Agreement] if such notes have been previously exchanged . The Basic Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the purpose of extending the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program except as it may be amended or if it is in conflict with this Extension Agreement .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties here present have caused this Extension Agreement to be concluded by their duly authorized representatives , in duplicate, in the English and Spanish languages at Tegucigalpa, Honduras, this ninth day of the month of May, 1947'

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS

FOR THE INSTITUTE OF INTERAMERICAN AFFAIRS

CECILIO COLINDRES ZEPEDA

MARCUS H. FLINTER."

Pending Your Excellency's reply, which, if it is favorable, will complete the exchange of notes provided for in Clause XIII of the

3122

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Extension Agreement for the latter to enter into effect, I am happy to renew to you the assurance of my distinguished consideration .
SILVERIO LAÍNEZ

The Honorable JOHN B. FAUST,

SILVERIO LAÍNEZ

Charge d'Affaires ad interim ofthe United States of America. American Embassy.

Ante, p. 3118. Ante, p. 3121.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Honduran Minister for Foreign Affairs

Note 586 EXCELLENCY :

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TEGUCIGALPA, HONDURAS, May 13, 1947

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's Note No. 3439 of today, concerning the Extension Agreement for the Health and Sanitation Cooperative Action Program of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs with the Government of Honduras signed in Tegucigalpa on May 9 , 1947 .
Your Excellency's note incorporates the text of the Extension Agreement , states that it has the approval of the Government of Honduras , and indicates that it will become effective upon exchange of the diplomatic notes referred to in Clause XIII .
By direction of my Government, I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that it approves the Extension Agreement as signed by Mr. Cecilio Colindres Zepeda on behalf of the Government of Honduras and by Dr. Marcus H. Flinter on behalf of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs. Consequently, it is now in full force and effect.

Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of my most distinguished consideration .
JOHN B. FAUST

His Excellency DR. SILVERIO LAINEZ,

JOHN B. FAUST Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Tegucigalpa, D.C.

61 STAT.]

PERU-FOOD PRODUCTION- June 11, 1945 Nov. 22, 1946

3123

Agreement between the United States of America and Peru respecting a cooperative food production program in Peru, further extending and modifying the agreement of May 19 and 20, 1943. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Lima June 11 , 1945, and November 22, 1946; entered into force November 22, 1946; effective August 31 , 1945.

June 11, 1945, and November 22, 1946
[T. I. A. S. 1647]

The American Ambassador to the Peruvian Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 812 EXCELLENCY :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Lima, June 11, 1945.

I have the honor to refer to my Note No. 216 of August 18, 1944, transmitting the English and Spanish texts of the Memorandum

of Agreement signed on June 1, 1944, by Major General George C. Dunham, Executive Vice President of the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs, and by His Excellency Godofredo A. Labarthe, Minister of Agriculture of Peru, extending to August 31 , 1945 , the Memorandum of Agreement dated May 19, 1943, which concerned the establishment of the Inter-American Cooperative Food Production Service in Peru.

On June 8, 1945, there was signed in Lima by Mr. William C. Brister, Vice President of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, and by His Excellency Godofredo Labarthe, Minister of Agriculture of Peru, a Memorandum of Agreement which reads in English and in Spanish as follows :

58 Stat. 1484. 57 Stat. 1405.

"MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

"The Republic of Peru and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs,
a corporation of the Office of Inter- American Affairs and an agency of the Government of the United States of America, hereby agree to

Extension of food production program.

extend the food production program provided for in the Memorandum of Agreement dated May 19, 1943 , as extended by the Memorandum of Agreement dated June 1 , 1944, between the two parties hereto, as hereinafter provided.
"1. The food production program shall continue to be carried out through the Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Producción de Alimentos (hereinafter called the "SCIPA") , which was created by the Government of Peru in accordance with the agreements of May 19, 1943, and June 1, 1944, referred to above. "2. The provisions of article 4 of the agreement of May 19, 1943, are considered to have been fulfilled by the contribution of US$162,976.77 ( S/.1,056,904.35 ) by The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, and by the contribution of S/.1,056,904.35 ( US$162,976.77)

57 Stat. 1405. 58 Stat. 1484. SCIPA.
Contributions. 57 Stat. 1407.

3124

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

58 Stat. 1485. Additional sums.
Transfers to SCIPA account.

that has been made by the government of Peru. The provisions of article 3 of the extended Memorandum of Agreement signed June 1, 1944, are considered to have been fulfilled as the result of contribu-
tions amounting to US$150,000 ( S/.972,750 ) by The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, and S/.1,945,500 ( US$300,000 ) by the Government of Peru, prior to the date of this agreement.
"3. For the purpose of extending the agreements of May 19, 1943 and June 1 , 1944, The Institute of Inter-American Affairs will make available an additional sum of US$75,000 ( S/.486,375 ) , and the government of Peru will likewise make available an additional sum of S/.972,750 ( US$150,000 ) for continuing the operations of SCIPA during the period August 31, 1945 through December 31, 1946.

"4. For the purpose of effectuating the objectives of this Extension Agreement, The Institute of Inter-American Affairs agrees to transfer to the account of SCIPA the sum of US$75,000

(S/.486,375) on the following basis, except that The Institute of

Inter-American Affairs may withhold the estimated or actual

amount of money required to cover orders and costs placed for

SCIPA in the United States. Payments shall be in bimonthly con-

tributions as provided herein :

U.S. Dollars

Peruvian Soles

September 1, 1945 November 1, 1945 January 1, 1946 March 1, 1946 May 1, 1946 July 1, 1946 September 1, 1946 November 1, 1946

9, 375.00 9,375.00 9, 375.00 9, 375.00 9, 375.00 9,375.00 9, 375.00 9, 375.00

60, 796.87 60,796. 87 60, 796. 87 60, 796. 87 60, 796. 88 60, 796. 88 60,796. 88 60, 796. 88

75, 000. 00 486, 375.00

"5. The Government of Peru agrees to transfer to the account of

SCIPA the sum of S/972,750 ( US$150,000 ) on the following basis :

Peruvian Soles

American Dollars

September 1, 1945 November 1, 1945 January 1, 1946 March 1, 1946 May 1, 1946 July 1, 1946 September 1, 1946 November 1, 1946

121, 593. 75 121, 593.75 121, 593.75 121, 593.75 121, 593. 75 121, 593, 75 121, 593.75 121, 593.75

18, 750.00 18,750.00 18, 750.00 18, 750.00 18,750.00 18,750.00 18, 750.00 18,750.00

972, 750.00 150,000.00

Amendment of transfer schedules.

"6. The parties hereto by written agreement by the Chief of the Food Supply Mission and the Minister of Agriculture may amend the schedules for making the transfers as provided in paragraphs 4 and 5 above and agree to make the transfers as required by the needs of the program.

61 STAT. ]

June 11 , 1945 PERU- FOOD PRODUCTION- Nov. 22, 1946

3125

Incomes accruing to "7. All incomes accruing to the accounts of SCIPA as the result SCIPA

of normal project operation , through the liquidation of projects,

or from whatever sources, will continue to be available to SCIPA

for the promotion of those projects from which the income has ac-

crued or, through mutual agreement between the Minister of Agri-

culture, the Chief of the Food Supply Mission and the Director of SCIPA may be apportioned to other projects of SCIPA. Funds contributed by The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, which may

Unexpended funds, etc.

not have been expended or obligated by contract or other legal commitment, proportionately with funds contributed by the Peruvian Government, by December 31 , 1946, shall be returned to The Institute of Inter-American Affairs. The unexpended and unobligated funds contributed by the Government of Peru and all accrued income from project operations on December 31 , 1946, shall remain to the credit of the Peruvian Government with SCIPA.
"8. The funds contributed according to this agreement are to be

Use of funds.

employed only for maintaining or extending projects contemplated under the original agreement, and as provided for in the budget approved August 16, 1943, and as elaborated in the budget approved June 14, 1944, supported by Project Proposals approved by the Minister of Agriculture and the Chief of the Food Supply Mission of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs in Peru and Director of SCIPA, or as modified by them, except that no part of the additional funds contributed by The Institute of Inter-American Affairs shall be utilized in projects involving poultry, fisheries or warehouses.
"9. The Chief of the Food Supply Mission of The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs in Peru shall continue as Director of SCIPA for the life of this agreement.

Exception. Director of SCIPA.

"10. The Agreements of May 19, 1943 and June 1, 1944, shall remain in full force and effect for the purpose of extending the cooperative food production program through December 31, 1946, except as

Force and effect of
prior agreements. 57 Stat. 1405; 58
Stat. 1484.

specifically modified herein , and the provisions contained therein

will apply during the life of this agreement. "11. This agreement shall terminate on December 31, 1946. It is understood that during the life of this agreement, there will be an

Termination .

orderly withdrawal of the activities of the Food Supply Division of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs in Peru, and the gradual

assumption of its functions by the appropriate entities of the Minis-

try of Agriculture.

LIMA, June 8, 1945

FOR THE REPUBLIC OF PERU GODOFREDO A. LABARTHE GODOFREDO A. LABARTHE Minister of Agriculture
95347°-49- PT. III- -54

FOR THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-
AMERICAN AFFAIRS
W. C. BRISTER W. C. BRISTER Vice-President, Institute of Inter- American
Affairs"

3126

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
"MEMORANDUM DE CONVENIO
"La República del Perú y el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos, corporación de la Oficina de Asuntos Inter-Americanos y dependencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, acuerdan, por el presente convenio, prorrogar el programa de producción de alimentos estipulado en el Memorandum de Convenio de fecha 19 de Mayo de 1943, y a su vez extendido en el Memorandum de Convenio de fecha 1º de Junio de 1944, entre las dos partes contractantes, bajo los términos detallados a continuación. "1. - El programa de producción de alimentos continuará llevándose a efecto por intermedio del Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Producción de Alimentos (que en adelante se denominará el SCIPA) y que fué creado por el Gobierno del Perú de acuerdo con los convenios del 19 de Mayo de 1943 y del 1º de Junio de 1944, arriba mencionados.
"2. -Las estipulaciones contenidas en el artículo Cuarto del Convenio del 19 de Mayo de 1943 , se consideran cumplidas mediante la contribución de US$162,976.77 ( S/.1,056,904.35 ) , hecha por el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos ; y la contribución de S/.1,056,904.35 (US$ 162,976.77) hecha por el Gobierno del Perú. Las estipulaciones contenidas en el artículo Tercero de la Prórroga del Convenio firmada con fecha 1º de Junio de 1944, se consideran cumplidas mediante las contribuciones hechas por el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos y por el Gobierno del Perú, en las sumas de US$150,000 ( S/.972,750 ) y S/.1,945,500 ( US$300,000 ) respectivamente, con anterioridad a la fecha de este convenio. "3.- Para los fines de la extensión del Convenio de Mayo 19 de 1943, y de la Prórroga del Convenio con fecha 1º de Junio de 1944, el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos contribuirá con una suma adicional de US$75,000 ( S/.486,375 ) y el Gobierno del Perú hará asimismo una contribución adicional de S/.972,750 ( US$150,000 ) ; con cuyo aporte conjunto se continuará el funcionamiento del SCIPA durante el período Agosto 31 de 1945 a Diciembre 31 de 1946.
"4. - Para llevar a efecto los objetivos de esta Prórroga del Convenio, el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos conviene en transferir a la cuenta del SCIPA la suma de US$75,000 ( S/486,375) , en la forma que se detalla a continuación, con la única excepción de que el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos queda en libertad de retener el valor calculado o real de pedidos colocados en los Estados Unidos para el SCIPA, y dicho valor, en las sumas respectivas, será considerado dentro de las contribuciones bimensuales, que serán como sigue :

61 STAT. ]

June 11 , 1945 PERU- FOOD PRODUCTION- Nov. 22, 1946

Dólares Americanos

Setiembre 1° de 1945 Noviembre 1° de 1945 Enero 1º de 1946 Marzo 1º de 1946 Mayo 1° de 1946 Julio 1º de 1946 Setiembre 1° de 1946 Noviembre 1° de 1946

9, 375.00 9, 375.00 9, 375.00 9, 375.00 9, 375.00 9, 375.00 9, 375.00 9, 375.00

75, 000. 00

Soles Peruanos
60, 796. 87 60, 796. 87 60, 796. 87 60, 796. 87 60, 796. 88 60, 796. 88 60, 796. 88 60, 796. 88
486, 375.00

"5.- El Gobierno del Perú conviene en transferir a la cuenta del

SCIPA la suma de S/.972,750 ( US$150,000 ) en la siguiente forma :

Soles Peruanos

Dólares Americanos

Setiembre 1° de 1945
Noviembre 1° de 1945 Enero 1º de 1946 Marzo 1º de 1946 Mayo 1° de 1946 Julio 1° de 1946 Setiembre 1º de 1946 Noviembre 1º de 1946

121, 593. 75
121, 593.75 121, 593.75 121, 593.75 121, 593.75 121, 593. 75 121, 593. 75 121, 593. 75

18, 750.00 18,750.00 18, 750.00 18,750.00 18,750.00 18,750.00 18,750.00 18,750.00

972,750.00 150, 000, 00

"6.-Las partes contractantes podrán, con la aprobación escrita del Ministro de Agricultura, y el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia, modificar las fechas de las entregas fijadas en los párrafos Cuarto y Quinto anteriores, y acordar nuevas fechas de entrega según lo requiera las necesidades del programa.
"7.- Todos los ingresos que incrementen las cuentas del SCIPA, como resultado de las operaciones normales de los proyectos, o por medio de la liquidación de proyectos, o debido a cualquier otro origen, seguirán a disposición del SCIPA para el fomento de los proyectos de los cuales provienen tales ingresos, o podrán ser asignados a otros proyectos del SCIPA por mutuo acuerdo entre el Ministro de Agricultura, el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia y el Director del SCIPA. Los fondos contribuidos por el Instituto de Asuntos Inter- Americanos que no hayan sido gastados, o asignados para cubrir obligaciones pendientes u otros compromisos legales , en proporción con los fondos contribuidos por el Gobierno Peruano, al 31 de Diciembre de 1946, serán devueltos al Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos. Al 31 de Diciembre de 1946, los fondos contribuidos por el Gobierno del Perú que no hayan sido gastados ni

3127

3128 57 Stat. 1405.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

asignados para cubrir obligaciones pendientes, y los ingresos provenientes del desarrollo de los proyectos, quedarán en el SCIPA y abonados al Gobierno del Perú. "8.- Los fondos contribuídos de acuerdo con este Convenio deberán emplearse unicamente para el mantenimiento o expansión de los proyectos contemplados en el convenio original, según se estipula en el presupuesto del 16 de Agosto de 1943, y en conformidad con los detalles contenidos en el presupuesto aprobado con fecha 14 de Junio de 1944, respaldado por los proyectos aprobados por el Ministro de Agricultura y el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia del Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos en el Perú y Director del SCIPA, o modificados por ellos ; quedando entendido que ninguna cantidad de los fondos adicionales con que debe contribuir el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos será invertida en proyectos de avicultura , pesquería o almacenes. "9.- El Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia del Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos en el Perú, continuará actuando como Director del SCIPA durante la vigencia del presente convenio.
"10.- Queda entendido que los Convenios de Mayo 19 de 1943 y Junio 1º de 1944, quedan en plena vigencia y mantienen todos sus efectos para la extensión del programa cooperativo de producción de alimentos hasta el 31 de Diciembre de 1946, con excepción de las modificaciones que se contemplan en el presente documento ; debiendo las estipulaciones generales contenidas en dichos Convenios, mantener su vigencia por toda la duración de este Convenio. "11.- Este Convenio termina el 31 de Diciembre de 1946. Queda entendido que, durante la vigencia de este Convenio, la División de Suministro de Alimentos del Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos irá limitando progresiva y ordenadamente su actividad en el Perú, al mismo tiempo que las entidades correspondientes del Ministerio de Agricultura se irán haciendo cargo gradualmente de dichas funciones .

LIMA, 8 de Junio de 1945.

"POR EL INSTITUTO DE ASUNTOS INTER-AMERICANOS
W. C. BRISTER W. C. BRISTER Vice-Presidente del Instituto de Asuntos Inter- Americanos.

POR LA REPUBLICA DEL PERU
GODOFREDO A. LABARTHE GODOFREDO A. LABARTHE
Ministro de Agricultura"

It is a pleasure for me to inform Your Excellency that the provisions of the Memorandum of Agreement as hereinabove set forth, by which the Agreement of May 19, 1943, would be further extended to December 31 , 1946, except as modified by the said Memorandum of Agreement, meet with the approval of the Government of the United States of America. It is my understanding that those provisions likewise meet with the approval of the Government of the Republic

61 STAT. ]

June 11 , 1945 PERU- FOOD PRODUCTION- Nov. 22, 1946

3129

of Peru. This note, together with your reply indicating the approval of the Government of the Republic of Peru, will be considered

as constituting an agreement between our two Governments on the subject, it being understood that this agreement shall be effective as of August 31 , 1945, and that this agreement shall continue in force to

Effective date; duration.

December 31 , 1946.

I avail myself of this occasion to extend to Your Excellency the renewed assurance of my highest consideration.

J. C. WHITE

His Excellency Dr. MANUEL CISNEROS,
Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lima.

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

Numero : ( H) -6-3/239 SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

LIMA, 22 de noviembre de 1946.

Tengo a honra dar respuesta a la estimable nota de Vuestra Excelencia número 199, de 30 de setiembre último, en la cual tiene a bien referirse a la del Excelentísimo Señor John Campbell White , número 812, de 11 de junio del año próximo pasado, conteniendo los textos en inglés y español del memorándum de acuerdo suscrito el 8 de junio de 1945, por el señor Ministro de Agricultura , ingeniero Godofredo A, Labarthe, en nombre del Perú, y por el señor W. C. Brister, por el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos-dependencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América-por el cual prorróga el programa de producción de alimentos hasta el 31 de diciembre de 1946.
En respuesta, debo manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia que por Resolu-

ción Suprema Nº. 473, expedida por el Ministerio de Agricultura con fecha 8 de junio de 1945, se dispuso aprobar el citado convenio de prórroga, referente a la continuación del funcionamiento del Servicio

Cooperativo de Producción de Alimentos, como dependencia del Ministerio de Agricultura.

También me es grato comunicar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Ministro de Agricultura, en nota reciente, expresa a este Despacho el deseo de renovar sin modificación alguna el contrato con el Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Producción de Alimentos. Tal deseo

se sustenta en el hecho de que la actual misión del Scipa lleva tiempo en el país y ha comprobado la comprensión de nuestros problemas encontrándose, en el momento actual , en inmejorables condiciones para rendir su máximo fruto. Por estas razones nuestra Embajada en los Estados Unidos de América realizó gestiones para dicha renovación.

3130 Ante, p. 3123.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Aprovecho esta oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia, los sentimientos de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
J DELGADO Y

Por el Ministro JAVIER DELGADO YRIGOYEN Al Excelentísimo Señor PRENTICE COOPER, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de America.-
Ciudad.Translation

Number : ( H)-6-3/239 MR. AMBASSADOR :

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND WORSHIP
LIMA, November 22, 1946.

I have the honor to reply to Your Excellency's esteemed note number

199, [ 1 ] of the 30th of last September, in which you are pleased to refer to that of His Excellency Mr. John Campbell White, number 812, of June 11th of last year, containing the texts in English and Spanish of the memorandum of agreement signed on June 8, 1945 , by the Minister of Agriculture, engineer Godofredo A. Labarthe, in the name of Peru, and by Mr. W. C. Brister, for the Institute of Inter-American Affairs-an agency of the Government of the United States of

America by which the food production program is extended until December 31 , 1946.

In reply, I must inform Your Excellency that by Supreme Resolution No. 473 , issued by the Ministry of Agriculture on June 8, 1945, it

was decided to approve the said agreement for extension, with reference to the continuing of the functioning of the Cooperative Food Production Service, as a branch of the Ministry of Agriculture.
I am also pleased to inform Your Excellency that the Minister of Agriculture, in a recent note, expressed to this Office the desire to renew without any change the contract with the Inter-American Cooperative Food Production Service. Such desire is supported by the fact that the present Scipa mission has been in the country some time and has increased the understanding of our problems, being, at the present time, in the most favorable situation for obtaining the best results. For these reasons our Embassy in the United States of America took steps for the said renewal.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency, the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
J DELGADO Y

For the Minister

His Excellency PRENTICE COOPER,

JAVIER DELGADO YRIGOYEN

Ambassador Extraordinary and

Plenipotentiary of the United States of America.

¹ [Not printed . ]

City.

61 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM-TELECOMMUNICATIONS-OCT. 13, 1947

3131

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting standardization of distance measuring equipment for telecommunications . Signed at Washington October 13, 1947; entered into force October 13, 1947.

October 13, 1947 [T. I. A. 8. 1652]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND
NORTHERN IRELAND ON DISTANCE MEASURING EQUIPMENT

The Government of the United States of America and the Govern-
ment of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ; Standardization of
Considering the importance of standardization of the distance D.M.E. measuring equipment ( D.M.E. ) as an aid to the safety of air navigation, and considering the immediate need, in view of the decisions of the 1947 Atlantic City Radio Administrative Conference of the International Telecommunication Union, for agreement on the radio
frequencies to be used for this purpose, have agreed through their respective representatives as follows :

Article 1

On the coming into force of this agreement, standardization of D.M.E. for civil aviation shall be in the 1000 Mc/s. band and not in

Civil aviation.

the 200 Mc/s. band.

Article 2

Until January 1 , 1952 , the United States of America shall , at the request of the United Kingdom, install and operate United Kingdom type D.M.E. in the 220-231 Mc/s. band at designated international airfields in the territory of the United States of America to be agreed upon from time to time. The frequency 223 Mc/s. shall be used for the ground responder and the frequency 228 Mc/s. shall be used for the airborne interrogator.
Article 3

Installation by U.S. of U. K. type, etc.

U. K. band beyond Beyond interference distance from the United States of America, interference distance
the United Kingdom proposes to use the band 200-235 Mc/s. for from U. s.

D.M.E. , and to complete the transition from this band to the 1000 Mc/s. band by January 1 , 1954, as far as concerns designated international airfields.
Article 4

Free D.M.E. Until January 1, 1954, or until such time as the requisite equip-

ment is available from United Kingdom production , whichever is the earlier date, the United States of America shall provide 1000 Mc/s. D.M.E. free of charge for use at designated international airfields in

the territory of the United Kingdom to be agreed upon from time to

3132

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Spare equipment.

time. The United Kingdom shall provide 200 Mc/s. D.M.E. free of charge for use at the airfields agreed upon in accordance with Article
2. In each case the equipment will include an appropriate quantity of spares.
Article 5

Maintenance, etc.

Each of the contracting Governments shall undertake to maintain and operate the equipment installed on its territory and provided under Article 4.
Article 6

Exchange of data, etc.

The contracting Governments agree to consult and to exchange technical data on 1000 Mc/s. D.M.E., and, as far as practicable, to render to each other such assistance as may be necessary to expedite

the implementation of this agreement. They will also make such information available to the other members of the International Civil Aviation Organization .
Article 7

Limitation of des-

ignated D.M.E.

With the object of ensuring world-wide standardization on 1000

Mc/s. D.M.E. at the earliest possible date, the contracting Governments

shall limit the supply and installation of 200 Mc/s . D.M.E. to the es-

sential minimum requirements of civil air navigation during the period

up to January 1, 1954.

Article 8

Consultation.

The contracting Governments agree to consult together annually for the purpose of reviewing the operation of the provisions of this agreement and associated problems with the object of expediting the general utilization of 1000 Mc/s. D.M.E.

Article 9

Review of conflicting provisions.

Such provisions of this agreement as may be found to be in conflict

with the provisions of the international radio regulations currently in

force will be reviewed with the object of removing the conflicts.

Article 10

Support ofstandardization.

The contracting Governments shall support actively the principle

of standardization on 1000 Mc/s. D.M.E. in the International Civil

Exclusions.

Aviation Organization and the International Telecommunication Union.
Article 11
British military ground installations situated over 100 miles from territory of the United States of America, and United Kingdom state aircraft (as defined in the Convention on International Civil Aviation

p.611180S.tat . , Pt . 2 , opened for signature at Chicago on December 7, 1944) , except when flying over or within 100 miles of territory of the United States of

America, are excluded from the operation of this agreement.

Article 12

""Territory."

In the present agreement the expression "territory" of either of the contracting Governments means any territory to which the agreement

61 STAT.] UNITED KINGDOM-TELECOMMUNICATIONS-OCT. 13, 1947
applies, and shall include, in addition to Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the one hand, and the territory of the United States of America on the other hand, any territory to which this agreement has been extended in accordance with the provisions of Article 13.
Article 13

3133

At any time while the present agreement is in force its provisions may, by a notification in writing by either contracting Government to the other, be extended to any colony, overseas territory, protectorate, or territory under mandate or trusteeship exercised by either of the contracting Governments. Article 14
This agreement shall enter into force upon the date of its signature.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized by their respective Governments, have signed the present agreement.
DONE in duplicate at Washington this thirteenth day of October 1947 .

Entry into force.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : GARRISON NORTON
Assistant Secretary of State of the United States of America
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND :
INVERCHAPEL Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
at Washington

61 STAT. ]

ITALY- RELIEF PROGRAM-JULY 4, 1947

3135

Agreement between the United States of America and Italy respecting a foreign relief program in Italy. Signed at Rome July 4, 1947; entered into force July 4, 1947. And exchange of notes.

July 4, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1653]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND THE ITALIAN GOVERNMENT
Concerning Assistance to Italy under the United States Foreign Relief Program

ACCORDO FRA IL GOVERNO ITALIANO ED IL GOVERNO DEGLI STATI UNITI DI AMERICA per il programma assistenziale statunitense per l'estero

3136

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND THE ITALIAN GOVERNMENT
Concerning Assistance to Italy under the United States Foreign Relief Program

61 Stat., Ft. 1 , p. 125.

Whereas, it is the desire of the United States to provide relief assistance to the Italian people to prevent suffering and to permit them to continue effec tively their efforts toward recovery ; and
Whereas, the Italian Government has requested the United States Government for relief assistance and bas presented information which convinces the Government of the United States that the Italian Government urgently needs assistance in obtaining the basic essentials of life for the people of Italy ; and
Whereas, the United States Congress has by Public Law 84, Eightieth Congress, May 31, 1947, authorized the provision of relief assistance to the people of those countries which, in the determination of the President, need such assistance and have given satisfactory assurances covering the relief program as required by the Act of Congress ; and
Whereas, the Italian Government and the United States Government desire to define certain conditions and understandings concerning the handling and distribution of the United States relief supplies and to establish the general lines of their cooperation in meeting the relief needs of the Italian people,
The Government of the United States of America represented by

James Clement DUNN, Ambassador of the United States of America to Italy

and the Italian Government represented by

Alcide DE GASPERI, President of the Council of Ministers Carlo SFORZA, Minister for Foreign Affairs

have agreed as follows :

Article I

Furnishing of Supplies

Types, quantities, etc.
61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 125.

(4) The program of assistance to be furnished shall consist of such types and quantities of supplies and procurement, storage, transportation and ship. ping services related thereto, as may be determined from time to time by the United States Government after consultation with the Italian Government in
accordance with the Public Law 84, Eightieth Congress, May 31 , 1947, and any Acts amendatory or supplementary thereto . Such supplies shall be

61 STAT. ]

ITALY- RELIEF PROGRAM-JULY 4, 1947

3137

ACCORDO FRA IL
GOVERNO ITALIANO ED IL GOVERNO DEGLI STATI UNITI DI AMERICA
per il programma assistenziale statunitense per l'estero
Considerato che e desiderio degli Stati Uniti di fornire assistenza al popolo italiano per prevenire la sofferenza e per permettergli di continuare efficacemente il suo sforzo verso la ripresa ; e
Considerato che il Governo italiano ha richiesto assistenza al Governo degli Stati Uniti ed ha fornito indicazioni tali da persuadere il Governo degli Stati Uniti che il Governo italiano ha urgente necessità di assistenza per assicurare le necessità fondamentali di vita per il popolo italiano ; e
Considerato che il Congresso degli Stati Uniti ha con Legge Pubblica 84, ottantesimo Congresso, del 31 maggio 1947 autorizzato la concessione di aiuti alle popolazioni di quei Paesi che, a giudizio del Presidente, necessitano tale assistenza e che abbiano date assicurazioni soddisfacenti relative al programma di assistenza richieste nell'Atto del Congresso ; e
Considerato che il Governo italiano ed il Governo degli Stati Uniti desiderano definire alcune condizioni ed intese relative alla gestione ed alla distribu. zione dei rifornimenti assistenziali da parte degli Stati Uniti e stabilire le direttive generali della loro cooperazione nel venire incontro alle necessità di assistenza del popolo italiano.
Il Governo italiano rappresentato da
Alcide DE GASPERL. Presidente del Consiglio dei Ministri Carlo SFORZA, Ministro degli Affari Esteri ed il Governo degli Stati Uniti rappresentato da
James Clement DUNN, Ambasciatore degli Stati Uniti di America presso la Repubblica Italiana,
hanno convenuto quanto segue : Art. 1
Fornitura di merci
(A) Il programma di assistenza da svolgersi consisterà di quei tipi e quantità di merci e delle relative operazioni di procacciamento, magazzinaggio, spedizione e trasporto, che potranno essere stabiliti di volta in volta dal Governo degli Stati Uniti, previa consultazione con il Governo italiano , in conformità della Legge Pubblica 84, ottantesimo Congresso, del 31 maggio 1947, ed a qualsiasi Atto contenente emendamento o integrazione di detta Legge. Tali riforni-

3138

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

No claim for payment.
Procurement by U. S. agencies, etc.
Approval of proposed Italian programs.
Post, p. 3148.
Transfers. Post, p. 3148.

confined to certain basic essentials of life, namely, food, medical supplies, processed and unprocessed material for clothing, fertilizers, pesticides, fuel and seeds.
(B) Subject to the provisions of Article III, the United States Government will make no request, and will have no claim, for payment for United States relief supplies and services as furnished under this agreement.
(C) The United States Government agencies will provide for the procurement, storage, transportation and shipment to Italy of United States relief supplies, except to the extent that the United States Government may authorize other means for the performance of these services in accordance with procedures stipulated by the United States Government. All United States relief supplies shall be procured in the United States except when specific approval for procurement outside the United States is given by the United States Government.
(D) The Italian Government will from time to time submit in advance to the United States Government its proposed programs for relief import requirements to be furnished by the United States . These programs shall be subject to screening and approval by the United States Government and procurement will be authorized only for items contained in the approved programs.
(E) Transfers of United States relief supplies shall be made unde arrangements to be determined by the United States Government in consultation with the Italian Government. The United States Government, whenever it deems it desirable, may retain possession of any United States relief supplies or may recover possession of such supplies transferred, up to the city or local community where such supplies are made available to the ultimate consumers.

Post, p. 3148. Fiscal charges. Post, p. 3148.
Liaison.

Article II
Distribution of Supplies in Italy
(4) All United States relief supplies shall be distributed by the Italian Government under the direct supervision and control of the United States representatives and in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. The distribution will be through commercial channels to the extent feasible and desirable.
(B) All United States relief supply imports shall be free of fiscal charges including customs duties up to the point where they are sold for local currency as provided by Article III of this Agreement unless when because of price practices, it is advisable to include customs charges or government taxes in prices fixed, in which case the amount thus collected on United States relief supply imports will accrue to the special account referred to in Article III. All United States relief supply imports given free to indigents, institutions and others will be free of fiscal charges, including custom duties.
(C) The Italian Government will designate a high ranking official who

61 STAT. ]

ITALY- RELIEF PROGRAM- JULY 4, 1947

menti saranno limitati ad alcune necessità fondamentali di vita e precisamente, generi alimentari, medicinali, materie lavorate o grezze per vestiario, fertilizzanti, anticrittogamici, combustibili e sementi.
(B) Salvo quanto previsto dall'articolo III il Governo degli Stati Uniti non richiederà nè pretenderà il pagamento delle forniture assistenziali degli Stati Uniti e relativi servizi corrisposti ai sensi di quest'Accordo.
(C) Gli Enti Governativi degli Stati Uniti provvederanno al procacciamento, magazzinaggio, trasporto e spedizione in Italia dei rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti, ad eccezione di quanto il Governo degli Stati Uniti possa altrimenti stabilire autorizzando l'uso di altri mezzi per l'esecuzione di questi servizi con modalità da stabilire dal Governo degli Stati Uniti. Tutti i rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti saranno procacciati negli Stati Uniti eccettuato il caso in cui il Governo degli Stati Uniti ne approvi specificamente il procacciamento fuori degli Stati Uniti.
(D) Il Governo italiano sottoporrà preventivamente di volta in volta al Governo degli Stati Uniti le sue proposte relative ai programmi delle sue necessità di importazioni assistenziali da fornirsi dagli Stati Uniti. Questi programmi saranno sottoposti all'esame ed all'approvazione del Governo degli Stati Uniti ed il procacciamento sarà autorizzato solo per le voci contenute nei programmi approvati .
(E) Il passaggio di proprietà dei rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti sarà fatto in conformità di accordi da stabilirsi dal Governo degli Stati Uniti in seguito a consultazione con il Governo italiano. Il Governo degli Stati Uniti, ogni qualvolta lo ritenga desiderabile, può riservarsi il possesso di qualsiasi rifornimento assistenziale fatto dagli Stati Uniti, oppure può ricuperare il possesso di tali rifornimenti già trasferiti raggiungendoli fino alle città o località di distribuzione dove tali rifornimenti vengono messi a disposizione dei diretti consumatori.
Art. II
Distribuzione dei rifornimenti in Italia
(4) Tutti i rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti saranno distribuíti dal Governo italiano sotto la diretta sorveglianza e controllo di rappresentanti degli Stati Uniti ed in conformità ai termini di questo Accordo. La distribuzione avrà luogo, per quanto fattibile e desiderabile, valendosi di tramiti commerciali.
(B) Tutte le importazioni di rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti saranno esenti da oneri fiscali compresi i diritti doganali fino al momento in cui sono venduti contro moneta locale come previsto dall'articolo III di questo Accordo, salvo il caso in cui in relazione ad una determinata politica dei prezzi, sia consigliabile includere gli oneri doganali o le tasse governative nei prezzi fissati, nel qual caso le somme così incassate sulle importazioni di rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti verranno accreditate sul conto speciale menzionato nell'articolo III. Tutte le importazioni di rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti dati gratuitamente ad indigenti, Enti ed altri saranno esenti da oneri fiscali, compresi i diritti doganali.
(C) Il Governo italiano designerà un Funzionario di grado elevato cui sarà affidato il compito del collegamento fra il Governo italiano ed i Rappre-

3139

3140

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT

Distribution by Italian Government.

shall have the responsibility of liaison between the Italian Government and the United States representatives responsible for the relief program.
(D) The Italian Government will distribute United States relief supplies and similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources without discrimination as to race, creed, or political belief, and will not permit the diversion of any of such supplies to non-essential uses or for export or removal from the country while need therefor for relief purposes continues. The Italian Government will not permit the diversion of an excessive amount of United States relief supplies and similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources in the maintenance of armed forces.

(E) The Italian Government will so conduct the distribution of United States relief supplies and similar supplies produced locally or imported from
outside sources as to assure a fair share of the supplies to all classes of the people and will maintain a ration and price control system to that end, wherever practicable.
(F) Distribution shall be so conducted that all classes of the population, irrespective of purchasing power, shall receive their fair share of supplies covered in this agreement.

Article III

Utilization of Funds Accruing from Sales of United States Supplies

Price agreement. Deposit of local currency . Disposition.
Italian advances. Unusual costs.

(A) The prices at which the United States relief supplies will be sold in Italy shall be agreed upon between the Italian Government and the United States Government
(B) When the United States relief supplies are sold for local currency, the amount of such local currency will be deposited by the Italian Government in a special account in the name of the Italian Government.
(C) Until June 30, 1948, such funds shall be disposed of only upon approval of the duly authorized representatives of the United States Government for relief and work relief purposes within Italy, including local currency expenses of the United States incident to the furnishing of relief. Any unencumbered balance remaining in such account on June 30, 1948, shall be disposed of within Italy for such purposes as the United States Government, pursuant to Act or Joint Resolution of Congress, may determine.
(D) The Italian Government will, upon request, advance funds to the United States representatives to meet local currency expenses incident to the furnishing of relief.
E) While it is not intended that the funds accruing from sales of the United States relief supplies normally will be used to defray the local expenses of the Italian Government in handling and distributing the United States relief supplies, including local currency costs of discharging cargo and other port charges, the United States representatives will consider with the Italian Government the use of the funds to cover the unusual costs which would place an undue burden on the Italian Government.

61 STAT. ]

ITALY-RELIEF PROGRAM- JULY 4, 1947

sentanti degli Stati Uniti competenti per l'esecuzione del programma assistenziale.
(D) Il Governo italiano distribuirà i rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti e le merci similari prodotte localmente od importate dall'estero senza discriminazione di razza, religione od opinione politica e non permetterà lo storno di qualsiasi di tali merci ad usi non essenziali o la loro destinazione all'esportazione o trasferimento dal Paese fintanto che permane la necessità di tali merci per scopi assistenziali . Il Governo italiano non permetterà lo storno di un quatitativo eccessivo di rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti o di merci analoghe prodotte localmente o importate dall'estero per il mantenimento di forze armate.
(E) Il Governo italiano regolerà la distribuzione dei rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti e delle merci analoghe prodotte localmente o importate dall'estero in modo da assicurare una equa quota dei rifornimenti a tutte le classi della popolazione e manterrà a tal fine un sistema di razionamento e di controllo dei prezzi, semprechè ciò sia fattibile.
(F) La distribuzione sarà regolata in modo che tutte le classi della popolazione, senza riguardo al loro potere di acquisto , riceveranno la loro equa quota dei rifornimenti contemplati in questo Accordo .
Art. III
Utilizzazione dei fondi provenienti dalle vendite dei rifornimenti degli Stati Uniti
(A) 1 prezzi ai quali verranno venduti in Italia i rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti saranno concordati fra il Governo italiano ed il Governo degli Stati Uniti.
(B) Allorchè i rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti saranno venduti contro moneta locale l'ammontare di tale moneta locale verrà depositato dal Governo italiano a nome del Governo italiano stesso in un conto speciale.
(C) Fino al 30 giugno 1948 tali fondi saranno utilizzati, solo dietro approvazione dei rappresentanti del Governo degli Stati Uniti debitamente autorizzati, per fini di aiuto ed opere di assistenza in Italia, comprese le spese sostenute in moneta locale dagli Stati Uniti relative alla fornitura di assistenza. Gli eventuali saldi attivi risultanti in tale conto al 30 giugno 1948 saranno utilizzati in Italia per quegli scopi che il Governo degli Stati Uniti potrà stabilire, in seguito ad atto o Risoluzione congiunta del Congresso .
(D) 11 Governo italiano anticiperà, su richiesta, fondi ai Rappresentanti degli Stati Uniti per sostenere spese in moneta locale relative alle forniture assistenziali.
(E) Benchè non si intenda che i fondi derivanti dalla vendita dei rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti vengano di regola usati per il rimborso di spese locali sostenute dal Governo italiano nella gestione e distribuzione dei rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti, inclusi i costi in moneta locale di scarico ed altri oneri portuali, i rappresentanti degli Stati Uniti prenderanno in esame con il Governo italiano l'uso dei fondi per far fronte a costi straordinari che costituissero un gravame eccessivo per il Governo italiano.

95347°-49- PT. III- -55

3141

3142

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Reports on collections, etc.

(F) The Italian Government will each month make available to the United States representatives reports on collections, balances and expenditures from the fund.
(G) The Italian Government will assign officials to confer and plan with the United States representatives regarding the disposition of funds accruing from sales and to assure a prompt and proper use of such funds.

Post, p. 3149. Post, p. 3149.

Article IV
Effective Production. Food Collections and Use of Resources to Reduce Relief Needs
(A) The Italian Government will exert all possible efforts to secure the maximum production and collection of locally produced supplies needed for relief purposes.
(B) The Italian Government will undertake not to permit any measures to be taken involving delivery, sale or granting of any articles of the character covered in this Agreement which would reduce the locally produced supply of such articles and thereby increase the burden of relief.
(C) The Italian Government will furnish regularly current information to the United States representatives regarding plans and progress in achieving this objective.
(D) The Italian Government affirms that it bas taken and is taking, in-sofar as possible, the economic measures necessary to reduce its relief needs and to provide for its own future reconstruction.

Article V United States Mission

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p . 125. Freedom of supervision, etc.
Privileges and immunities.

(A) The United States Government will attach to the United States Embassy in Rome, representatives who will constitute a relief mission and will, in cooperation with the regular Embassy staff, discharge the responsibilities of the United States Government under this Agreement and the Public Law 84, Eightieth Congress, May 31, 1947. The Italian Government will permit and facilitate the movement of the United States representatives to, in and from Italy.
(B) The Italian Government will permit and facilitate in every way the freedom of the United States representatives to supervise, inspect, report and travel throughout Italy at any and all times and will cooperate fully with them in carrying out all of the provisions of this Agreement. The Italian Government will furnish the necessary automobile transportation to permit the United States representatives to travel freely throughout Italy and without delay.
(C) The United States representatives and the property of the mission and of its personnel shall enjoy in Italy the same privileges and immunities as are enjoyed by the personnel of the United States Embassy in Italy and the property of the Embassy and of its personnel.

61 STAT.]

ITALY-RELIEF PROGRAM JULY 4, 1947

(F) Il Governo italiano presenterà ogni mese ai rappresentanti degli Stati Uniti la situazione degli introiti, saldi e spese relativi al fondo.
(G) Il Governo italiano nominerà dei Funzionari per discutere e progettare con i Rappresentanti degli Stati Uniti circa l'uso delle somme derivanti dalle vendite e per assicurare un pronto ed appropriato uso di tali somme.
Art. IV
Produzione effettiva. Ammasso di prodotti alimentari ed uso delle risorse locali per ridurre le necessità di assistenza
(4) Il Governo italiano farà ogni possibile sforzo per assicurare il massimo di produzione e di ammasso delle merci prodotte localmente necessarie ai fini dell'assistenza.
(B) Il Governo italiano si obbligherà a non permettere che vengano prese misure di qualunque genere implicanti consegna, vendita o cessione di qualsiasi bene della natura contemplata in questo accordo e che possa ridurre il quantitativo prodotto localmente di tale bene e di conseguenza aumentare l'onere dell'assistenza .
(C) Il Governo italiano darà regolarmente notizie aggiornate ai rappresentanti degli Stati Uniti sui progetti e sui progressi fatti in tale direzione.
(D) Il Governo italiano dichiara che ha preso e sta prendendo, nei limiti del possibile le misure economiche necessarie per ridurre i suoi bisogni di assistenza o per provvedere alla sua futura ricostruzione.
Art. V
Missione americana
(4) Il Governo degli Stati Uniti invierà presso l'Ambasciata degli Stati Uniti in Roma dei Rappresentanti che costituiranno una missione assistenziale e che, in cooperazione con il personale regolare dell'Ambasciata, assolveranno gli obblighi del Governo degli Stati Uniti ai sensi di questo Accordo e della Legge Pubblica 84 ottantesimo Congresso, del 31 maggio 1947. Il Governo italiano consentirà e faciliterà i movimenti dei Rappresentanti degli Stati Uniti per, in, e dall'Italia.
(B) Il Governo italiano consentirà e faciliterà in tutti i modi ai rappresen tanti degli Stati Uniti di sovraintendere, ispezionare, riferire e viaggiare liberamente in Italia in qualsiasi momento , e di cooperare pienamente con loro per realizzare tutte le disposizioni di questo Accordo. Il Governo italiano fornirà i necessari trasporti automobilistici per consentire ai Rappresentanti degli Stati Uniti di viaggiare liberamente e senza ritardi in Italia.
(C) I Rappresentanti degli Stati Uniti ed i beni della missione e del suo personale godranno in Italia gli stessi privilegi ed immunità goduti dal personale dell'Ambasciata degli Stati Uniti in Italia e dai beni dell'Ambasciata e del suo personale.

3143

3144

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Article VI
Freedom of United States Press and Radio Representatives to Observe and Report
The Italian Government agrees to permit representatives of the United States press and radio to observe freely and report fully and without censorship regarding the distribution and utilization of relief supplies and the use of funds accruing from the sale of United States relief supplies.

Article VII Reports, Statistics and Information

Abuses or violations of agreement.

4) The Italian Government will maintain adequate statistical and other records on relief and will consult with the United States representatives, upon
their request, with regard to the maintenance of such records. (B) The Italian Government will furnish promptly upon request of the
United States representatives information concerning the production, use, distribution, importation and exportation of any supplies which affect the relief needs of the people.
(C) In case United States representatives report apparent abuses or violations of this Agreement, the Italian Government will investigate and report and promptly take such remedial action as is necessary to correct such abuses or violations as are found to exist.

Article VIII Publicity Regarding United States Assistance

(4) The Italian Government will permit and arrange full and continuous

publicity regarding the purpose, source, character, scope, amounts and progress

of the United States relief program in Italy, including the utilization of funds

accruing from the sales of United States relief supplies for the benefit of the

people.

Marking, etc. of relief supplies.

(B) All United States relief supplies and any articles processed from such

supplies, or containers of such supplies or articles, shall, to the extent practicable,

be marked, stamped, branded, or labelled in a conspicuous place in such manner

as to indicate to the ultimate consumer that such supplies or articles have been

furnished by the United States for relief assistance ; or if such supplies, articles

or containers are incapable of being so marked, stamped, branded, or labelled,

all practicable steps will be taken by the Italian Government to inform the

ultimate consumer thereof that such supplies or articles have been furnished by

the United States for relief assistance.

61 STAT. ]

ITALY-RELIEF PROGRAM-JULY 4, 1947

Art. VI
Libertà per i rappresentanti della stampa e della radio degli Stati Uniti di osservare e riferire
Il Governo italiano concorda nel permettere ai rappresentanti della stampa e della radio degli Stati Uniti di osservare liberamente e riferire integralmente e senza censura sulla distribuzione e utilizzazione dei rifornimenti assistenziali e sull'uso delle somme derivanti dalle vendite dei rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti.
Art. VII
Relazioni statistiche e dati informativi
A) Il Governo italiano curerà la redazione di adeguate statistiche e di altri dati relativi all'assistenza e si consulterà con i rappresentanti degli Stati Uniti, su loro richiesta, relativamente alla tenuta dei relativi registri.
(B) Il Governo italiano fornirà tempestivamente, su richiesta dei rappresentanti degli Stati Uniti, notizie concernenti la produzione, l'uso, la distribuzione, l'importazione e l'esportazione di qualsiasi merce che influisca sulla necessità di assistenza della popolazione.
(C) Nel caso che i rappresentanti degli Stati Uniti facciano presenti presunti abusi o violazioni di questo Accordo, il Governo italiano, indagherà, riferirà e prenderà subito quei provvedimenti necessari per eliminare quegli abusi o violazioni che risultassero confermati.
Art. VIII
Pubblicità relativa all'assistenza degli Stati Uniti
A) Il Governo italiano consentirà e organizzerà la pubblicità piena continuata sui fini , provenienza , carattere, portata, ammontare e sviluppo del programma di assistenza degli Stati Uniti all'Italia, nonchè sulla utilizzazione a beneficio della popolazione delle somme derivanti dalla vendita dei rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti.
(B) Tutti i rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti e qualsiasi prodotto ottenuto dalla trasformazione di tali rifornimenti o gli involucri in cui tali rifornimenti o articoli sono contenuti, dovranno , nei limiti del possibile, essere marcati, stampigliati, segnati a fuoco od etichettati, in maniera visibile in modo da indicare al consumatore diretto che tali rifornimenti od articoli sono stati forniti dagli Stati Uniti per assistenza oppure se tali rifornimenti, articoli o involucri non possano essere così marcati, stampigliati, segnati a fuoco od etichettati, debbono essere presi dal Governo italiano tutti i possibili accorgimenti per informare il consumatore diretto che tali rifornimenti od articoli sono stati forniti dagli Stati Uniti per sccpi assistenziali.
1

3145

3146

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 125.

Article IX
Termination of Relief Assistance
The United States Government will terminate any or all of its relief assistance at any time whenever it determines (1) by reason of changed conditions, the provision of relief assistance of the character authorized by the Public Law 84, Eightieth Congress, May 31, 1947, is no longer necessary (2) any provisions of this Agreement are not being carried out (3) an excessive amount of United States relief supplies, or of similar supplies produced locally or imported from. outside sources, is being used to assist in the maintenance of armed forces in Italy, or (4) United States relief supplies or similar supplies produced locally or imported from outside sources are being exported or removed from Italy. The United States Government may stop or alter its program of assistance whenever in its determination other circumstances warrant such action.

Effective date; duration.

Article X Date of Agreement
This Agreement shall take effect as from this day's date. It shall continue in force until a date to be agreed upon by the two governments.
DONE in duplicate in the English and Italian languages at Rome, this Fourth day of July, 1947.

For the Government of the United States
of America
ames drouss Dam(1)

For the Italian Government
Legasiz 199

Jam

1 [James Clement Dunn.] [De Gasperi.] [Sforza.]

61 STAT.]

ITALY-RELIEF PROGRAM-JULY 4, 1947

Art. IX
Cessazione dell'assistenza
Il Governo degli Stati Uniti porrà termine a tutta o parte della sua attività di assistenza in qualsiasi momento venga accertato che (1) a causa delle mutate condizioni, la fornitura di assistenza del tipo autorizzata dalla Legge Pubblica 84 ottantesimo Congresso del 31 maggio 1947 non sia più necessaria (2) che una qualunque delle disposizioni di questo Accordo non è stata eseguita (3) che un eccessivo quantitativo di rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti, o di merci analoghe prodotte localmente, od importate dall'estero, è usata per mantenere forze armate in Italia oppure (4) rifornimenti assistenziali degli Stati Uniti o merci analoghe prodotte localmente o importate dall'estero vengono esportate o trasferite dall'Italia. Il Governo degi Stati Uniti può ceare o modificare il suo programma di assistenza ogni qualvoltà altre circostanze a suo giudizio lo richiedano.

Art. X Data dell'Accordo
Questo Accordo entrerà in vigore in data odierna. Esso rimarrà in vigore fino ad una data da convenirsi tra i due Governi.
FATTO in duplice esemplare in inglese ed in italiano in Roma, 11 quattro Luglio 1947.

Per il Governo italiano

Per il Governo degli Stati Uniti di America

Lygamy

vollmers Dunn

3147

3148

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The American Ambassador to the Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

F. O. 318 EXCELLENCY,

Rome, July 4, 1947.

I have the honor to refer to the Agreement signed today by our

two Governments providing for the extension of relief to Italy under

the United States Foreign Relief Program, and in that connection

I take pleasure in advising Your Excellency of certain interpretations

which my Government places upon those clauses of the Agreement

which have given rise to oral queries on the part of the Italian Govern-

ment. These are identified below by reference to the pertinent Articles and sub-Articles of the Agreement .

Ante, p. 3138.

Article I (D) : In response to the suggestion advanced by the Italian Government, the text of the Agreement has been changed to provide that the Government need submit to the United States Government, in advance, its proposed programs for relief import requirements only in the case of United States relief supplies. It is understood however that the United States Government will expect

to receive through its Embassy in Rome pertinent information con-

Ante, p. 3138.

cerning supplies from other sources. Article I (E): Although my Government recognizes the delicate

problems that may arise from the second sentence of Article I (E) ,

61 Stat. , Pt. 1, p. 125. We are specifically instructed by the Act of Congress of May 31 , 1947 ,

Ante, p. 3142. Ante, p. 3138.

as follows: "When it is deemed desirable by the Field Administrator

(Note: Head of the Field Mission described in Article V of the

Agreement) ·

such missions shall be empowered to retain

possession of such supplies up to the city or local community where

such supplies are actually made available to the ultimate consumers".

This provision of Article I (E) is therefore obligatory. It is recog-

nized, however, that it would be invoked only under highly unusual

circumstances and only if other normal distribution arrangements

fail to assure proper implementation of the Agreement.

Article II (A) : This Article does not in any way require exclusive use of commercial channels for the distribution of United States relief

Ante, p. 3138.

supplies. So long as an equitable distribution to consumers is maintained, it is agreed that the channels now used by the Italian Government for similar imports may be used whenever suitable, subject to change in the light of unforeseen circumstances.
Article II (B) : The validity of the point raised by the Italian Government with respect to the imposition of customs duties and other charges has been recognized . It is not the intention of the Agreement to require a dual pricing system within Italy for commodities obtained from two or more sources. The procedure for assuring collec-

Ante, p. 3140.

tions of these taxes and fiscal charges and for determining proper accruals to the special account described in Article III (B ) can be worked out as part of the pricing procedures described in Article III (A) with

the understanding, however, that those relief supplies which are given

61 STAT. ]

ITALY-RELIEF PROGRAM-JULY 4, 1947

3149

free to indigents , institutions and others will not be subject to any fiscal charges payable by the recipients.
Article IV (A) : With respect to the word "collection " in the English text of the Agreement, it is the intent and explicit provision of the

Ante, p. 3142.

Act of Congress and of the Agreement that during the period of time relief is received under the Act the recipient Governments shall insofar as possible take the economic measures necessary to reduce their relief needs . This would involve, in the case of food items such as

cereals and olive oil, maximum efforts by the Italian Government to

bring into its amassing system whatever amounts can feasibly be collected .

On the other hand, it is not the intention of the United States

Government to require Italian Government-administered amassing of items that do not lend themselves to this technique or have not previously been so collected. The meaning of the English word "collection" in these instances will depend upon the particular com-

modity in question and the determination of the most appropriate and practical methods to promote flow of the locally produced supplies to consumers in such a manner as to assure that all classes of consumers , regardless of purchasing power, receive their fair share

(although not necessarily an equal share) of the supplies, and that in no event shall there be discrimination as to race, creed or political belief.
This therefore becomes a matter to be worked out in Rome between

the Italian Government and the United States Embassy, for each commodity included in the relief program.
Article IV (D) : The Italian Government has pointed out its desire of reserving maximum autonomy and flexibility in facing its economic difficulties . The United States Government wishes to make clear

Ante, p. 3142.

that nothing in Article IV (D) is intended to derogate Italian independence or sovereignty in taking the economic measures demanded

by situations that may arise, so long as the spirit of cooperation and goodwill are observed in the implementation of this Agreement. In earlier discussions held between representatives of the United States Government and the Italian Government regarding this Article IV

(D) , considerable attention was directed to the problem of exporting

commodities such as olive oil , rice and seed wheat . These questions,

although generally pertinent to Article IV (D ) , are particularly per-

tinent to Articles II (D) , IV (B) , and IX (4 ) .

My Government has

Ante, pp. 3140, 3142, 3146.

authorized me to furnish you the following legal opinion . I believe

that this interpretation adequately covers the points raised by the

Italian Government in the general discussions on Article IV (D ):

"If a portion of such supplies or articles (i.e. , articles produced

locally or imported from outside sources that are of the same character

or similar to the United States relief supplies) , even though sub-

stitutable for United States relief supplies could be exported in exchange for corresponding or greater quantities of other items also

substitutable for United States relief items, the relief needs of the

country could be more adequately met . .

· Thus, a locally pro-

duced quantity of rice might be exchangeable for a greater quantity

3150

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
of wheat which could then form an important supplement to wheat furnished by the United States . Exports of this character should probably be permitted only when the relatively greater relief need for the imported items can be clearly established".
It should be understood, however, that any arrangements for exports of the above nature will be subject to prior agreement between the Italian Government and the United States Relief Representatives in Italy.
Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
JAMES CLEMENT DUNN His Excellency
COUNT CARLO SFORZA Minister of Foreign Affairs Rome.

The Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador MINISTERO DEGLI AFFARI ESTERI
SIGNOR AMBASCIATORE, Ho l'onore di accusare ricevuta della Sua Nota in data odierna n .
318, del tenore seguente :

"I have the honor to refer to the Agreement signed today by Your Excellency and myself providing for the extension of relief to Italy under the United States Foreign Relief Program, and in that connection I take pleasure in advising Your Excellency of certain interpretations which my Governement places upon those clauses of the Agreement which have given rise to oral queries on the part of the Italian Government. These are identified below by reference to the pertinent Articles and sub-Articles of the Agreement.

Article I (D) : In response to the suggestion advanced by the Italian Government, the text of the Agreement has been changed to provide that the Government need submit to the United States Government, in advance, its proposed programs for relief import requirements only in the case of United States relief supplies . It is understood however that the United States Government will expect
to receive through its Embassy in Rome pertinent information concerning supplies from other sources.
Article I (E) : Although my Government recognizes the delicate problems that may arise from the second sentence of Article I (E) , we are specifically instructed by the Act of Congress of May 31 , 1947 , as follows:

"When it is deemed desiderable by the Field Administrator (Note:

Head of the Field Mission described in Article V of the Agree-

ment) . .

. . such missions shall be empowered to retain pos-

session of such supplies up to the city or local community where such supplies are actually made available to the ultimate consumers".

61 STAT. ]

ITALY- RELIEF PROGRAM-JULY 4, 1947

This provision of Article I (E) is therefore obligatory. It is recognized, however, that it would be invoked only under highly unusual circumstances and only if other normal distribution arrangements fail to assure proper implementation of the Agreement.
Article II (A ) : This Article does not in any way require exclusive use of commercial channels for the distribution of United States relief supplies. So long as an equitable distribution to consumers is maintained, it is agreed that the channels now used by the Italian Government for similar imports may be used whenever suitable, subject to change in the light of unforeseen circumstances.
Article II (B ) : The validity of the point raised by the Italian Government with respect to the imposition of customs duties and other charges has been recognized . It is not the intention of the Agreement to require a dual pricing system within Italy for commodities obtained from two or more sources. The procedure for assuring collections of these taxes and fiscal charges and for determining proper accruals to the special account described in Article III (B ) can be worked out as part of the pricing procedures described in Article III (A) with the understanding, however, that those relief supplies which are given free to indigents , institutions and others will not be subject to any fiscal charges payable by the recipients.
Article IV (A): With respect to the word "collection" in the English text of the Agreement, it is the intent and explicit provision of the Act of Congress and of the Agreement that during the period of time relief is received under the Act the recipient Government shall insofar as possible take the economic measures necessary to reduce their relief needs. This would involve, in the case of food items such as cereals and olive oil, maximum efforts by the Italian Government to bring into its amassing sistem whatever amounts can feasibly be collected .
On the other hand, it is not the intention of the United States Government to require Italian Government-administered amassing of items that do not lend themselves to this technique or have not previously been so collected . The meaning of the English word "collection" in these instances will depend upon the particular commodity in question and the determination of the most appropriate and practical methods to promote flow of the locally produced supplies to consumers, in such a manner as to assure that all classes of consumers, regardless of purchasing power, receive their fair share (although not necessarily en equal share) of the supplies, and that in no event shall there be discrimination as to race, creed or political belief.
This therefore becomes a matter to be worked out in Rome between the Italian Government and the United States Embassy, for each commodity included in the relief program.
Article IV (D) : The Italian Government has pointed out its desire of reserving maximum autonomy and flexibility in facing its economic difficulties. The United States Government wishes to make clear

3151

3152

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

that nothing in Article IV (D) is intended to derogate Italian independence or sovereignty in taking the economic measures demanded by situations that may arise, so long as the spirit of cooperation and goodwill are observed in the implementation of this Agreement. In earlier discussions held between representatives of the United States Government and the Italian Government regarding this Article IV (D) , considerable attention was directed to the problem of exporting commodities such as olive oil, rice and seed wheat. These questions, although generally pertinent to Article IV (D ) , are particularly pertinent to Articles II (D ) , IV (B ) , and IX (4) . My Government has authorized me to furnish you the following legal opinion. I believe that this interpretation adequately covers the points raised by the Italian Government in the general discussions on Article IV (D) :

"If a portion of such supplies or articles (i.e. , articles produced

locally or imported from outside sources that are of the same character

or similar to the United States relief supplies) , even though substitu-

table for United States relief supplies could be exported in exchange for corresponding or greater quantities of other items also substitutable

for United States relief items , the relief needs of the country could be

more adequately met . . .

Thus, a locally produced quantity

of rice might be exchangeable for a greater quantity of wheat which

could then form an important supplement to wheat furnished by the

United States . Exports of this character should probably be permitted

only when the relatively greater relief need for the imported items can be clearly established".

It should be understood, however, that any arrangements for exports of the above nature will be subject to prior agreement between the Italian Government and the United States Relief Representatives in Italy".
Ho l'onore di informarLa che il Governo Italiano ha preso buona nota di tale comunicazione.
Mi torna gradita l'occasione per rinnovarLe, Signor Ambasciatore , l'assicurazione della mia più alta considerazione.
SFORZA ROMA, 4 Luglio 1947.
S. E. JAMES CLEMENT DUNN Ambasciatore degli S.U.A. Roma

Translation
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS MR. AMBASSADOR:
I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your note No. 318 , dated today, of which the contents are as follows:
[For English text of note no. 318 , see pp . 3148-3150.]

61 STAT. ]

ITALY-RELIEF PROGRAM-JULY 4, 1947

I have the honor to inform you that the Italian Government has taken careful note of this communication.
I avail myself of the occasion to renew to you, Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my highest consideration.
SFORZA
ROME, July 4, 1947. His Excellency
JAMES CLEMENT DUNN
Ambassador of the United States of America Rome

3153

3154

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

September 5, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1654]

Agreement between the United States of America and Siam respecting the exchange of official publications . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Bangkok September 5, 1947; entered into force September 5, 1947 .

The American Ambassador to the Siamese Minister of Foreign Affairs

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 352

AMERICAN EMBASSY, BANGKOK, SIAM. September 5, 1947.

EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have taken
place between representatives of the Government of the United States of America and representatives of the Government of Siam in regard to the exchange of official publications, and to inform Your Excellency that the Government of the United States of America agrees that there shall be an exchange of official publications between the two Governments in accordance with the following provisions :

1. Each of the two Governments shall furnish regularly a copy of each of its official publications which is indicated in a selected list prepared by the other Government and communicated through diplomatic channels subsequent to the conclusion of the present agreement. The list of publications selected by each Government may be revised from time to time and may be extended, without the necessity of subsequent negotiations, to include any other official publication of the other Government not specified in the list, or publications of new offices which the other Government may establish in the future.
2. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of the United States of America shall be the
Smithsonian Institution. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of Siam shall be the National Library.
3. The publications shall be received on behalf of the United States of America by the Library of Congress and on behalf of the Kingdom of Siam by the National Library.
4. The present agreement does not obligate either of the two Governments to furnish blank forms, circulars which are not of a public character, or confidential publications.
5. Each of the two Governments shall bear all charges, including postal , rail and shipping costs, arising under the present agreement in connection with the transportation within its own country

61 STAT. ] SIAM-EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS- SEPT. 5, 1947
of the publications of both Governments and the shipment of its own publications to a port or other appropriate place reasonably convenient to the exchange office of the other Government. 6. The present agreement shall not be considered as a modification of any existing exchange agreement between a department or agency of one of the Governments and a department or agency of the other Government.
Upon the receipt of a note from Your Excellency indicating that the foregoing provisions are acceptable to the Government of Siam , the Government of the United States of America will consider that this note and your reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, the agreement to enter into force on the date of your note in reply.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
EDWIN F. STANTON
His Excellency, LUANG ARTTHAKITTI BANOMYONG, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

The Siamese Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, SARANROM PALACE.

No. 9800/2490

5th September, 1947.

MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR,

With reference to Your Excellency's Note of today's date, and to the conversations between representatives of the Government of Siam and representatives of the Government of the United States of

America in regard to the exchange of official publications, I have the honour to inform Your Excellency that the Government of Siam agrees that there shall be an exchange of official publications between the two Governments in accordance with the following provisions :

1. Each of the two Governments shall furnish regularly a copy of each of its official publications which is indicated in a selected list prepared by the other Government and communicated through diplomatic channels subsequent to the conclusion of the present agreement. The list of publications selected by each Government may be revised from time to time and may be extended , without the necessity of subsequent negotiations, to include any other official publication of the other Government not specified in the list, or publications of new offices which the other Government may establish in the future. 2. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of the United States of America shall be the Smithsonian Institution. The official exchange office for the trans-

3155

3156

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
mission of publications of the Government of Siam shall be the National Library. 3. The publications shall be received on behalf of the United States of America by the Library of Congress and on behalf of the Kingdom of Siam by the National Library. 4. The present agreement does not obligate either of the two Governments to furnish blank forms, circulars which are not of a public character, or confidential publications. 5. Each of the two Governments shall bear all charges, including postal, rail and shipping costs, arising under the present agreement in connection with the transportation within its own country of the publications of both Governments and the shipment of its own publications to a port or other appropriate place reasonably convenient to the exchange office of the other Government. 6. The present agreement shall not be considered as a modification of any existing exchange agreement between a department or agency of one of the Governments and a department or agency of the other Government.
The Government of Siam considers that your note and this reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, the agreement to enter into force on the date of this note.
I avail myself of this opportunity, Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, to renew to Your Excellency the assurance of my highest consideration.
A. BANOMYONG Minister of Foreign Affairs.
His Excellency Monsieur EDWIN F. STANTON , Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, Bangkok.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL GERMAN REPARATION-JAN. 14, 1946

3157

Agreement between the United States of America and other governments respecting the distribution of German reparation, the establishment ofan inter-allied reparation agency, and the restitution of monetary gold. Opened for signature at Paris January 14, 1946; signed for the United States of America January 14, 1946; entered into force January 24, 1946 .

January 14, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1655)

ACCORD CONCERNANT LES RÉPARATIONS A
RECEVOIR DE L'ALLEMAGNE,

AGREEMENT ON
REPARATION FROM GERMANY ,

L'INSTITUTION D'UNE AGENCE INTER- ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ALLIÉE DES RÉPARATIONS ET LA INTER -ALLIED REPARATION AGENRESTITUTION DE L'OR MONÉTAIRE. CY AND ON THE RESTITUTION OF MONETARY GOLD.

LES GOUVERNEMENTS DE THE GOVERNMENTS OF L'ALBANIE, DES ÉTATS-UNIS ALBANIA , THE UNITED D'AMÉRIQUE , DE L'AUSTRA- STATES OF AMERICA, AUSLIE, DE LA BELGIQUE , DU TRALIA, BELGIUM , CANADA, CANADA, DU DANEMARK, DENMARK, EGYPT, FRANCE , DE L'ÉGYPTE , DE LA THE UNITED KINGDOM OF FRANCE, DU ROYAUME-UNI GREAT BRITAIN AND DE GRANDE-BRETAGNE ET NORTHERN IRELAND, D'IRLANDE DU NORD, DE GREECE, INDIA, LUXEMLA GRÈCE, DE L'INDE, DU BOURG, NORWAY, NEW-ZEALUXEMBOURG, DE LA NOR- LAND , THE NETHERLANDS , VÈGE, DE LA NOUVELLE- CZECHOSLOVAKIA , THE ZÉLANDE, DES PAYS -BAS , DE UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA LA TCHÉCOSLOVAQUIE , DE AND YUGOSLAVIA, in order to L'UNION DE L'AFRIQUE DU obtain an equitable distribution SUD ET DE LA YOUGOSLA- among themselves of the total VIE, en vue de répartir équitable- assets which, in accordance with ment entre eux le total des biens the provisions of this Agreement qui, conformément aux disposi- and the provisions agreed upon at tions du présent Accord et aux Potsdam on 1. August 1945 bedispositions convenues à Potsdam, tween the Governments of the le 1er août 1945 , entre les Gouver- United States of America, the nements des États-Unis d'Améri- United Kingdom of Great Britain que, du Royaume-Uni de Grande- and Northern Ireland and the
Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord , et Union of Soviet Socialist Repubde l'Union des Républiques So- lics, are or may be declared to be

95347°-49--PT. III- 56

3158 Post, p. 3171.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

cialistes Soviétiques , sont ou ser- available as reparation from Geront déclarés disponibles au titre many (hereinafter referred to as des réparations à recevoir de German reparation) , in order to l'Allemagne (ci-après dénommées establish an Inter-Allied Repara"réparations allemandes " ) , en vue tion Agency, and to settle an de créer une Agence Interalliée equitable procedure for the restides Réparations et en vue d'éta- tution of monetary gold, blir une procédure équitable pour la restitution de l'or monétaire,

SONT Convenus de ce qui suit : PARTIE I.
Réparations allemandes.

HAVE AGREED as follows: PART I.
German reparation.

ARTICLE PREMIER.

ARTICLE 1 .

Quotes-parts de réparations.

Shares in Reparation.

A. Les réparations allemandes A. German reparation (exclu(à l'exception des fonds qui doivent sive of the funds to be allocated être alloués aux termes de l'article under Article 8 of Part I of this

8 de la Partie I du présent Accord ) Agreement) , shall be divided into

sont divisées en catégories de la the following categories :

façon suivante:

Catégorie A, comprenant toutes Category A, which shall include

les formes de réparations alleman- all forms of German reparation

des à l'exception de celles com- except those included in Category

prises dans la catégorie B;

B;

Catégorie B, comprenant tout Category B, which shall include

l'outillage industriel et autres biens industrial and other capital equipd'équipement en capital enlevés ment removed from Germany, d'Allemagne , ainsi que les navires and merchant ships and inland marchands et les bateaux de navi- water transport. gation intérieure.
B. Chaque Gouvernement si- B. Each Signatory Government gnataire a droit, sur la valeur totale shall be entitled to the percentage des biens de la catégorie A, ainsi share of the total value of Cateque sur la valeur totale des biens gory A and the percentage share de la catégorie B, aux pourcen- of the total value of Category B tages indiqués pour chacune de ces set out for that Government in catégories dans les colonnes cor- the Table of Shares set forth respondantes du tableau ci-après : below:

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN REPARATION- JAN. 14, 1946

TABLEAU DES PARTS.

TABLE OF SHARES.

Pays.

Catégorie Catégorie

A.

B.

Country.

Category Category

A.

B.

3159

Albanie États-Unis d'Amérique. Australie Belgique Canada Danemark Égypte France . Royaume-Uni Grèce Inde Luxembourg Norvège Nouvelle-Zélande. Pays- Bas Tchécoslovaquie Union de l'Afrique du Sud (1). Yougoslavie
Total

0,05 28,00 0,70 2,70 3,50 0, 25 0,05 16,00 28,00 2,70 2,00 0, 15 1,30 0,40 3,90 3,00 0,70 6,60
100,00

0,35 Albania 11,80 United States of America . 0,95 Australia . 4,50 Belgium 1,50 Canada 0,35 Denmark 0,20 Egypte . 22,80 France 27,80 United Kingdom 4,35 Greece 2,90 India . 0,40 Luxembourg 1,90 Norway 0,60 New Zeeland . 5,60 Netherlands 4,30 Czechoslovakia . 0,10 Union of South Africa (1) 9,60 Yugoslavia ..

100,00

Total .

.05 28.00
.70 2.70 3.50 .25 .05 16.00 28.00 2.70 2.00 .15 1.30 .40 3.90 3.00 .70 6.60
100.00

.35 11.80
.95 4.50 1.50 .35 .20 22.80 27.80 4.35 2.90 .40 1.90 .60 5.60 4.30 .10 9.60
100.00

(1) Le Gouvernement de l'Afrique du Sud s'est engagéàrenoncerà ses droits dans la mesure qui sera nécessaire pour ramener sa quote-part dans la catégorie B à o, 1 p. 100, mais ce Gouvernement aura le droit, lorsqu'il disposera des avoirs allemands de caractère ennemi se trouvant dans les territoires soumis à sa juridiction, d'imputer le montant de la valeur nette de ces avoirs sur sa quote-part dans la catégorie A et sur une quote-part de 1p. 100 dans la catégorie B.

(1) The Government ofthe Union of South Africa has undertaken to waive its claims extent necessary to reduce its percentage share of category B to the figure ofo, 1 per cent but is entitled, in disposing of German enemy assets within its juridiction, to charge the net value of such assets against its percentage share of category A and a percentage share under category B of 1,0 per cent.

C. Sous réserve des dispositions C. Subject to the provisions of du paragraphe D ci -dessous, cha- paragraph D below, each Signaque Gouvernement signataire a le tory Government shall be entitled droit de recevoir , sur l'ensemble to receive its share of merchant des navires marchands, une part ships determined in accordance déterminée conformément aux dis- with Article 5 of Part I of this

positions de l'article 5 de la Partie Agreement, provided that its reI du présent Accord , à condition ceipts of merchant ships do not que la valeur des navires mar- exceed in value its share in chands qui lui sont attribués Category B as a whole. n'excède pas la valeur de la quotepart à laquelle il a droit dans l'ensemble des biens de la caté-

gorie B. Sous réserve des dispositions du

Subject to the provisions of

paragraphe D ci-dessous, chaque paragraph D below, each SignaGouvernement signataire a égale- tory Government shall also be ment le droit de recevoir une part, entitled to its Category A percentcorrespondant à ses droits dans age share in German assets in l'ensemble des biens de la caté- countries which remained neutral

gorie A, des avoirs allemands in the war against Germany. situés dans les pays qui sont demeurés neutres dans la guerre

contre l'Allemagne.

Merchant ships. Post, p. 3167.

3160 Post, p. 3165.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

La répartition entre les Gou- The distribution among the

vernements signataires des biens Signatory Governments of forms disponibles au titre des réparations of German reparation other than

allemandes, autres que les navires merchant ships, inland water marchands , les bateaux de naviga- transport and German assets in tion intérieure et les avoirs alle- countries which remained neutral

mands situés dans les pays qui in the war against Germany shall sont demeurés neutres dans la be guided by the principles set guerre contre l'Allemagne , sera forth in Article 4 of Part I of

conforme aux principes énoncés this Agreement.

à l'Article 4 de la Partie I du présent Accord.

D. Si un Gouvernement signa- D. If a Signatory Government

taire reçoit une part supérieure à receives more than its percentage son pourcentage de certains types share of certain types of assets in de biens ressortissant soit à la either Category A or Category B,

catégorie A, soit à la catégorie B, its receipts of other types of assets

ses droits sur d'autres types de in that Category shall be reduced biens de la même catégorie seront so as to ensure that it shall not

réduits de telle sorte que ce receive more than its share in that

Gouvernement ne reçoive pas au Category as a whole.

total une part supérieure à ses droits dans l'ensemble des biens

de cette catégorie. E. Aucun Gouvernement signa-

E. No Signatory Government

taire ne peut recevoir une part shall receive more than its persupérieure à ses droits, soit dans centage share of either Category A l'ensemble des biens de la catégorie or Category B as a whole by surA, soit dans l'ensemble des biens rendering any part of its percentde la catégorie B, en renonçant à age share of the other Category, une fraction quelconque de sa except that with respect to Gerquote-part dans l'ensemble des man enemy assets within its own biens de l'autre catégorie ; toute- jurisdiction, any Signatory Govfois, en ce qui concerne les avoirs ernment shall be permitted to allemands de caractère ennemi charge any excess of such assets soumis à la juridiction d'un over its Category A percentage Gouvernement signataire , ce Gou- share of total German enemy

vernement a le droit d'imputer, assets within the jurisdiction of soit sur les biens à recevoir de la the Signatory Governments either catégorie A, soit sur les biens à to its receipts in Category A or recevoir de la catégorie B, soit to its receipts in Category B or

pour partie sur les biens de l'une in part to each Category. et l'autre catégories , l'excès de tels

avoirs sur sa quote-part de l'ensemble des avoirs allemands de

caractère ennemi soumis à la

juridiction des Gouvernements si-

gnataires, telle qu'elle est fixée

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL GERMAN REPARATION- JAN. 14, 1946

3161

pour l'ensemble des biens de la

catégorie A. F. L'Agence Interalliée des Ré-

F. The Inter-Allied Reparation

parations, qui doit être instituée Agency, to be established in acconformément à la Partie II du cordance with Part II of this

présent Accord, débitera le compte Agreement, shall charge the repréparations de chacun des Gouver- aration account of each Signatory nements signataires des avoirs Government for the German assets

allemands soumis à sa juridiction, within that Government's jurisen répartissant les débits sur une diction over a period of five years. période de cinq ans . Les débits The charges at the date of the

portés en compte à la date de entry into force of this Agreel'entrée en vigueur du présent ment shall be not less than 20 Accord ne doivent pas être in- per cent of the net value of such férieurs à 20 p . 100 de la valeur assets (as defined in Article 6 of nette de ces avoirs (définie à Part I of this Agreement) as then l'artice 6 de la Partie I du présent estimated , at the beginning of the Accord) , selon l'estimation qui second year thereafter not less en sera faite à cette date ; au than 25 per cent of the balance as début de la deuxième année, then estimated , at the beginning ils ne devront pas être inférieurs of the third year not less than à 33 % p . 100 du solde , selon 33, % per cent of the balance as l'estimation qui en sera faite then estimated , at the beginning of

à cette date ; au début de la the fourth year not less than 50 per quatrième année, ils ne devront cent of the balance as then esti-

pas être inférieurs à 50 p . 100 mated, at the beginning of the fifth du solde, selon l'estimation qui year not less than 90 per cent of en sera faite à cette date ; au the balance as then estimated , and

début de la cinquième année, at the end of the fifth year the ils ne devront pas être inférieurs entire remainder of the total à 90 p. 100 du solde , selon l'esti- amount actually realized .

mation qui en sera faite à cette date et, à la fin de la cinquième année, ils seront égaux au solde du montant total effectivement réalisé.

G. Les dérogations suivantes G. The following exceptions to aux dispositions des paragraphes paragraphs D and E above shall Det E ci-dessus sont applicables apply in the case of a Signatory au cas d'un Gouvernement signa- Government whose share in Catetaire, dont les droits dans l'en- gory B is less than its share in semble des biens de la catégorie Category A: B sont inférieurs aux droits dans

l'ensemble des biens de la caté-

gorie A: (i) L'attribution de navires

(i) Receipts of merchant ships

marchands à un Gouvernement se by any such Government shall not

trouvant dans cette situation ne reduce its percentage share in

Charges. Post, p. 3174.
Post, p. 3168.

3162

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

doit pas réduire ses droits sur other types of assets in Category

d'autres types de biens de la B, except to the extent that such catégorie B, sauf dans la mesure receipts exceed the value ob-

où de telles attributions dépassent tained when that Government's

en valeur le chiffre obtenu en Category A percentage is applied

appliquant à la valeur totale des to the total value of merchant navires marchands le pourcentage ships . auquel a droit ce Gouvernement

dans l'ensemble des biens de la

catégorie A. (ii ) Si la valeur des avoirs alle-

(ii) Any excess of German as-

mands soumis à la juridiction sets within the jurisdiction of such d'un Gouvernement se trouvant Government over its Category A dans la même situation excède sa percentage share of the total of quote-part dans l'ensemble des German assets within the jurisavoirs allemands soumis à la diction of Signatory Government juridiction des Gouvernements as a whole shall be charged first to signataires , telle qu'elle résulte du the additional share in Category pourcentage qui lui est attribué B to which that Government dans l'ensemble des biens de la would be entitled if its share in

catégorie A, la différence sera Category B were determined by imputée en premier lieu sur la applying its Category A percentfraction additionnelle du pour- age to the forms of German repcentage auquel ce Gouvernement aration in Category B. aurait droit dans l'ensemble des biens de la catégorie B, si l'on

appliquait le pourcentage auquel il a droit dans l'ensemble des

Distribution of renounced shares, etc.
Ante, p. 3159.

biens de la catégorie A aux formes de réparations prévues dans la catégorie B.
H. Si un Gouvernement signa- H. If any Signatory Governtaire renonce à la totalité ou à une ment renounces its shares or part fraction de ses droits dans l'en- of its shares in German reparation semble des réparations allemandes, as set out in the above Table of tels qu'ils sont indiqués au Ta- Shares, or if it withdraws from the bleau des parts ci-dessus, ou si Inter-Allied Reparation Agency ledit Gouvernement se retire de at a time when all or part of its l'Agence Interalliée des Répara- shares in German reparation retions à une époque où tout ou main unsatisfied, the shares or partie de ses droits dans les ré- part thereof thus renounced or parations allemandes n'ont pas remaining shall be distributed été couverts , la part ou fraction rateably among the other Signade part à laquelle il renonce, ou tory Governments.

qui lui reste due au moment de son retrait, sera répartie entre les

autres Gouvernements signataires

au prorata de leurs propres pour-

centages .

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-GERMAN REPARATION- JAN. 14, 1946

3163

ARTICLE, 2 .

ARTICLE 2 .

Règlement des créances sur l'Allemagne.

Settlement of Claims against Germany.

A. Les Gouvernements signa- A. The Signatory Governments

taires conviennent entre eux que agree among themselves that their

leurs quotes-parts respectives de respective shares of reparation , as réparations , telles qu'elles sont determined by the present Agreefixées par le présent Accord , doi- ment, shall be regarded by each of vent être considérées par chacun them as covering all its claims and d'eux comme couvrant toutes ses those of its nationals against the créances et celles de ses ressortis- former German Government and

sants sur l'ancien Gouvernement its Agencies , of a governmental or

allemand et les Agences gouverne- private nature, arising out of the mentales allemandes, créances qui war (which are not otherwise prone font pas expressément l'objet vided for) , including costs of Gerd'autres dispositions , créances de man occupation, credits acquired caractère public ou privé, issues during occupation on clearing acde la guerre, y compris le coût de counts and claims against the l'occupation allemande, les avoirs Reichskreditkassen. en compte de clearing acquis

pendant l'occupation et les créances sur les Reichskreditkassen.

B. Les dispositions du para- B. The provisions of paragraph

graphe A ci-dessus ne préjugent A above are without prejudice to:

pas:

(i) La détermination, en temps (i) the determination at the

utile , des formes , de la durée ou proper time of the forms , duration

du montant total des réparations or total amount of reparation to

à effectuer par l'Allemagne ;

be made by Germany ;

(ii) Le droit que chacun des (ii) the right which each Sig-

Gouvernements signataires peut natory Government may have avoir en ce qui concerne le règle- with respect to the final settlement ment définitif des réparations alle- of German reparation ; and

mandes ; (iii) Toutes revendications d'or-

(iii) any political, territorial or

dre politique, territorial ou autre, other demands which any Signa-

qu'un Gouvernement signataire tory Government may put forward pourra présenter à propos du règle- with respect to the peace settle-

ment de la Paix avec l'Allemagne. ment with Germany.

C. Nonobstant les dispositions

C. Notwithstanding anything in

Claims, affected.

etc. ,

not

du paragraphe A ci-dessus , le the provisions of paragraph A

présent Accord doit être considéré above, the present Agreement shall

comme n'affectant pas:

no be considered as affecting :

(i) L'obligation qui incombe aux (i) the obligation of the appro-

Autorités allemandes compétentes priate authorities in Germany to d'assurer ultérieurement le paye- secure at a future date the disment des dettes de l'Allemagne et charge of claims against Germany de ses ressortissants , résultant de and German nationals arising out

3164

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

contrats et autres obligations qui of contracts and other obligations étaient en vigueur, ainsi que de entered into , and rights acquired , droits qui étaient acquis, avant before the existence of a state of que l'état de guerre existât entre war between Germany and the l'Allemagne et le Gouvernement Signatory Government concerned signataire intéressé ou avant l'oc- or before the occupation of its

cupation par l'Allemagne du pays territory by Germany, whichever intéressé, selon que l'un ou l'autre was earlier ; événement est survenu le plus tôt ;
(ii ) Les créances d'institutions (ii) the claims of Social Insurd'Assurances sociales des Gou- ance Agencies of the Signatory

vernements signataires ou de leurs Governments or the claims of

ressortissants sur les institutions their nationals against the Social

d'assurances sociales de l'ancien Insurance Agencies of the former

Gouvernement allemand ;

German Government ; and

(iii) Les billets de banque de la (iii) banknotes of the Reichs-

Reichsbank et de la Rentenbank, bank and the Rentenbank, it being

étant entendu que leur réalisation understood that their realization ne peut avoir pour conséquence shall not have the result of reduc-

de diminuer indûment la masse ing improperly the amount of des réparations et ne pourra s'effec- reparation and shall not be effected

Right of Czechoslovak Government to
dcrouanwt.upon Giro ac-

tuer qu'avec l'accord du Conseil without the approval of the Con-

de Contrôle en Allemagne .

trol Council for Germany.

D. Nonobstant les dispositions D. Notwithstanding the pro-

du paragraphe A du présent arti- visions of Paragraph A of this Ar-

cle , les Gouvernements signataires ticle, the Signatory Governments

conviennent, pour autant que la agree that, so far as they are conquestion les concerne, que le cerned, the Czechoslovak Gov-

Gouvernement tchécoslovaque se- ernment will be entitled to draw

ra habilité à tirer sur le compte upon the Giro account of the Na-

Giro de la Banque nationale de tional Bank of Czechoslovakia at

Tchécoslovaquie à la Reichsbank, the Reichsbank, should such ac-

dans le cas où telle mesure serait tion be decided upon by the

décidée par le Gouvernement tché- Czechoslovak Government and ap-

coslovaque et approuvée par le proved by the Control Council for

Conseil de Contrôle en Allemagne, Germany, in connection with the en rapport avec le mouvement de movement from Czechoslovakia

Tchécoslovaquie vers l'Allemagne to Germany of former Czechod'anciens ressortissants tchécoslo- slovak nationals.

vaques .

ARTICLE 3 .

ARTICLE 3.

Renonciation aux créances sur les Waiver of Claims Regarding Prop-

biens attribués au titre des ré-

erty Allocated as Reparation.

parations.

Chacun des Gouvernements si- Each of the Signatory Govern-

gnataires s'engage à ne pas faire ments agrees that it will not assert, valoir, ni porter devant des tribu- initiate actions in international naux internationaux, ni soutenir tribunals in respect of, or give

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL GERMAN REPARATION-JAN. 14, 1946
par une action diplomatique des diplomatic support to claims on réclamations présentées en son behalf of itself or those persons nom ou au nom de personnes entitled to its protection against ayant droit à sa protection, contre any other Signatory Government tout autre Gouvernement signa- or its nationals in respect of taire ou ses ressortissants, rela- property received by that Govtives à des biens reçus par ce ernment as reparation with the Gouvernement au titre des répara- approval of the Control Council tions avec l'approbation du Con- for Germany. seil de Contrôle en Allemagne.

3165

ARTICLE 4.

ARTICLE 4.

Principes généraux pour la répar- General Principles for the Alloca-

tition de l'outillage industriel ou d'autres biens d'équipement en

tion of Industrial and other Capital Equipment.

capital.

A. Aucun Gouvernement signa- A. No Signatory Government

taire ne devra demander l'attri- shall request the allocation to it as

bution, dans sa part de réparations, reparation of any industrial or d'outillage industriel ou d'autres other capital equipment removed

biens d'équipement en capital from Germany except for use in its enlevés d'Allemagne si ce n'est aux own territory or for use by its own

fins d'utilisation sur son propre nationals outside its own territory .

territoire, ou , en dehors de son

territoire, par ses propres nationaux .
B. En soumettant leurs de-

B. In submitting requests to the

mandes à l'Agence Interalliée des Inter-Allied Reparation Agency, Réparations, les Gouvernements the Signatory Governments should

Submission of comprehensive programs of requests.

signataires s'efforceront de présen- endeavour to submit comprehenter des programmes d'ensemble sive programs of requests for comprenant des groupes de biens related groups of items , rather connexes plutôt que des demandes than requests for isolated items

visant des biens isolés ou de or small groups of items . It is petits groupes de biens. Il est recognized that the work of the

reconnu que l'activité du Secré- Secretariat of the Agency will be tariat de l'Agence sera d'autant more effective, the more compre-

plus efficace que les programmes hensive the programs which Signaque lui présenteront les Gou- tory Governments submit to it. vernements signataires auront

davantage le caractère de programmes d'ensemble.
C. Pour l'attribution des biens

C. In the allocation by the General principles.

déclarés disponibles pour les répa- Inter-Allied Reparation Agency of rations , autres que les navires items declared available for repamarchands, les bateaux de navi- ration (other than merchant ships , gation intérieure et les avoirs inland water transport and Ger-

allemands dans les pays qui sont man assets in countries which demeurés neutres au cours de la remained neutral in the war

3166

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

guerre contre l'Allemagne , against Germany) , the following

l'Agence Interalliée des Répara- general principles shall serve as

tions s'inspirera des principes gé- guides :

néraux suivants:

(i) Tout bien ou groupe de (i) Any item or related group

biens connexes, dans lesquels un of items in which a claimant

pays demandeur possède des in- country has a substantial prewar térêts financiers substantiels anté- financial interest shall be allocated

rieurs à la guerre, doit être to that country if it so desires .

attribué à ce pays , s'il le désire . Where two or more claimants have Dans le cas où deux ou plusieurs such substantial interests in a

pays possèdent des intérêts subs- particular item or group of items, tantiels de cette nature, dans the criteria stated below shall un bien ou un groupe de biens guide the allocation : définis, l'attribution doit se faire

en tenant compte des critères

énoncés ci-après : (ii) Dans le cas de demandes

(ii) If the allocation between

concurrentes, si l'attribution n'est competing claimants is not deter-

pas déterminée par les dispositions mined by paragraph (i) , attention

du paragraphe (i ) , il sera fait état, shall be given, among other rele-

entre autres facteurs pertinents, vant factors , to the following

des considérations suivantes :

considerations :

a. Le degré d'urgence du besoin a. The urgency of each claimant

qu'a chaque pays demandeur de country's needs for the items or disposer du bien ou des biens item to rehabilitate, reconstruct
disponibles pour remettre en état, or restore to full activity the reconstruire ou d'une manière claimant country's economy;

générale restaurer son économie nationale dans sa pleine activité;
b. La mesure dans laquelle le

b. The extent to which the item

bien, ou les biens remplaceraient or items would replace property des biens détruits, endommagés ou which was destroyed , damaged or ayant fait l'objet de spoliations looted in the war, or requires rependant la guerre, ou des biens placement because of excessive qui doivent être remplacés à la wear in war production, and which suite d'usure anormale due à la is important to the claimant

production du temps de guerre, et country's economy; qui sont susceptibles de jouer un rôle important dans l'économie du pays demandeur ;
c. Le rôle du bien ou des biens c. The relation of the item or

dont il s'agit dans le cadre général items to the general pattern of the de l'économie d'avant-guerre du claimant country's prewar eco-

pays demandeur et dans les pro- nomic life and to programs for its

grammes établis en vue de l'ajuste- postwar economic adjustment or ment et du développement de son development ; économie d'après-guerre ;
d. Les demandes des pays dont d. The requirements of coun-

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL GERMAN REPARATION-JAN. 14, 1946

les quotes-parts de réparations sont tries whose reparation shares are

faibles, mais qui ont besoin de small but which are in need of

certains biens ou catégories de certain specific items or cate-

biens nettement déterminés ;

gories of items.

(iii) Les programmes d'attribu- (iii) In making allocations a

tion devront conserver un équilibre reasonable balance shall be mainraisonnable entre les différents tained among the rates at which ayants droit en ce qui concerne the reparation shares of the several

la fraction déjà satisfaite de leurs claimant Governments are satisquotes-parts respectives, sous ré- fied, subject to such temporary serve des exceptions temporaires exceptions as are justified by the qui peuvent se justifier par les considerations under paragraph

considérations du paragraphe (ii ) (ii) (a) above. (a) ci-dessus .

ARTICLE 5 .

ARTICLE 5 .

Principes généraux pour la réparti- General Principles for the Allocation des navires marchands et des tion of Merchant Ships and bateaux de navigation intérieure. Inland Water Transport.

A. (i) Les navires de commerce A. (i) German merchant ships

allemands disponibles pour ré- available for distribution as rep-

partition au titre des réparations aration among the Signatory entre les Gouvernements signa- Governments shall be distributed

taires seront répartis entre ceux-ci among them in proportion to the

au prorata des pertes globales respective over-all losses of merrespectives de navires marchands, chant shipping, on a gross tonnage

calculées en prenant comme base basis, of the Signatory Governle tonnage brut, que les Gouver- ments and their nationals through nements signataires et leurs res- acts of war. It is recognized that sortissants ont subies par suite de transfers of merchant ships by the

faits de guerre . Il est reconnu que United Kingdom and United la cession de navires de commerce States Governments to other Gov-

par les Gouvernements des États- ernments are subject to such

Unis d'Amérique et du Royaume- final approvals by the legislatures Uni à d'autres Gouvernements est ofthe United Kingdom and United

effective sous réserve de telle ap- States of America as may be probation définitive par les organes required . législatifs de ces deux pays qui pourrait être nécessaire.

(ii) Un Comité spécial, composé (ii) A special committee, comde représentants des Gouverne- posed of representatives of the ments signataires, sera constitué Signatory Governments, shall be par l'Assemblée de l'Agence Inter- appointed by the assembly of the alliée des Réparations pour pré- Inter-Allied Reparation Agency to senter des recommandations au make recommendations concern-

sujet de la détermination de ces ing the determination of such

pertes et de l'attribution des losses and the allocation of German

navires de commerce allemands merchant ships available for dis-

disponibles pour répartition.

tribution .

3167

3168

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

(iii ) La valeur des navires de (iii) The value of German mercommerce allemands portée dans chant ships for reparation accountles comptes de réparations sera la ing purposes shall be the value valeur fixée par la Commission determined by the Tri-partite tripartite de la Marine marchande Merchant Marine Commission in sur la base des prix de 1938 en terms of 1938 prices in Germany Allemagne, majorée de 15 p . 100 plus 15 per cent, with an allowance et avec application d'un coefficient for depreciation. de dépréciation.
B. En raison du fait reconnu B. Recognizing that some coun-
que certains pays ont particu- tries have special need for inland lièrement besoin de bateaux de water transport, the distribution navigation intérieure, la réparti- of inland water transport shall be tion de ces bateaux sera confiée à dealt with by a special committee un Comité spécial constitué par appointed by the Assembly of the l'Assemblée de l'Agence Inter- Inter-Allied Reparation Agency in alliée des Réparations dans les cas the event that inland water transoù des bateaux de navigation port becomes available at a future intérieure deviendraient disponi- time as reparation for the Signables ultérieurement au titre des tory Governments. réparations pour les Gouverne- The valuation of inland water
ments signataires . L'évaluation transport will be made on the basis des bateaux de navigation in- adopted for the valuation of mertérieure sera faite sur la base chant ships or on an equitable adoptée pour la marine marchande basis in relation to that adopted ou sur une base équitable en for merchant ships . rapport avec elle .

ARTICLE 6 .

ARTICLE 6.

Avoirs allemands à l'étranger.

German External Assets.

A. Chacun des Gouvernements A. Each Signatory Government
signataires , par les méthodes de shall , under such procedures as it son choix, retiendra les avoirs may choose, hold or dispose of allemands ennemis se trouvant German enemy assets within its dans les territoires soumis à sa jurisdiction in manners designed juridiction, ou en disposera , de to preclude their return to German telle manière qu'ils ne puissent ownership or control and shall redevenir propriété allemande ou charge against its reparation share retomber sous contrôle allemand, such assets (net of accrued taxes, et imputera sur sa quote-part de liens, expenses of administration , réparations les avoirs dont il s'agit other in rem charges against (nets d'impôts arriérés, privilèges specific items and legitimate conet frais de gestion , et libres de tract claims against the German toutes autres charges in rem gre- former owners of such assets) . vant des éléments déterminés de ces
avoirs ainsi que de tous droits contractuels légitimes à l'égard des anciens propriétaires allemands de ces avoirs) .

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN REPARATION-JAN. 14, 1946

3169

B. Les Gouvernements signa- B. The Signatory Governments taires communiqueront à l'Agence shall give to the Inter-Allied RepInteralliée des Réparations toutes aration Agency all information les informations que celle-ci de- for which it asks as to the value mandera sur le montant de ces of such assets and the amounts

Information as to value of assets, etc.

avoirs et sur les produits périodiquement réalisés par la liquidation desdits avoirs.
C. La propriété ou le contrôle des avoirs allemands se trouvant

realized from time to time by their liquidation.
C. German assets in those countries which remained neutral in

Assets in countries.

neutral

dans les pays restés neutres pen- the war against Germany shall be dant la guerre contre l'Allemagne removed from German ownership sera retiré à l'Allemagne. Ces or control and liquidated or dis-

avoirs seront liquidés ou il en posed of in accordance with the sera disposé, conformément aux authority of France, the United décisions que peuvent prendre les Kingdom and the United States États-Unis d'Amérique, la France of America, pursuant to arrange-

et le Royaume-Uni, en exécution ments to be negotiated with the d'accords que ces Puissances négo- neutrals by these countries . The cieront avec les pays neutres ; le net proceeds of liquidation or disproduit net de la liquidation ou position shall be made available des actes de disposition de ces to the Inter-Allied Reparation avoirs sera mis à la disposition de Agency for distribution on repara-

l'Agence Interalliée des Répara- tion account.

tions pour être réparti au titre des réparations.

D. Dans l'application des dis- D. In applying the provisions

positions du paragraphe A ci- of paragraph A above, assets which

dessus, les avoirs qui étaient la were the property of a country propriété d'un pays membre des which is a member of the United

Nations Unies ou d'une personne Nations or its nationals who were

ressortissant de ce pays et non not nationals of Germany at the de l'Allemagne au moment de time of the occupation or annexa-

l'annexion ou de l'occupation de tion of this country by Germany, ce pays par l'Allemagne ou de son or of its entry into war, shall

entrée en guerre, ne seront pas not be charged to its reparation imputés à son compte de répa- account. It is understood that

rations , étant entendu que la this provision in no way prejudges

disposition qui précède ne préjuge any questions which may arise as aucune des questions qui pour- regards assets which were not the

raient se poser au sujet d'avoirs property of a national of the

qui n'étaient pas la propriété d'un country concerned at the time of

ressortissant du pays en question the latter's occupation or annexa-

au moment de l'annexion ou de tion by Germany or of its entry

l'occupation de ce pays par l'Alle- into war.

magne ou de son entrée en guerre. E. Les avoirs allemands de ca-

E. The German enemy assets

ractère ennemi à imputer sur les to be charged against reparation quotes-parts de réparations de- shares shall include assets which

vront inclure les avoirs qui sont are in reality German enemy

3170

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

en réalité des avoirs allemands de assets, despite the fact that the caractère ennemi, même si le pro- nominal owner of such assets is

priétaire apparent de tels avoirs not a German enemy.

n'est pas un Allemand de caractère ennemi .

Chaque Gouvernement signa- Each Signatory Government taire, si ce n'est déjà fait, devra shall enact legislation or take other

promulguer des textes législatifs appropriate steps, if it has not et prendre toutes autres mesures already done so , to render null and appropriées pour annuler tous les void all transfers made, after the transferts effectués après l'occupa- occupation of its territory or its tion de son territoire ou son en- entry into war, for the fraudulent trée en guerre, dans l'intention purpose of cloaking German enemy frauduleuse de dissimuler des in- interests, and thus saving them térêts allemands de caractère en- harmless from the effect of control nemi et de les soustraire aux effets measures regarding German en-

des mesures de contrôle sur les emy interests. intérêts allemands de caractère

Committee of Experts.

ennemi ; F. L'Assemblée de l'Agence In- F. The Assembly of the Inter-
teralliée des Réparations consti- Allied Reparation Agency shall tuera un Comité d'Experts en set up a Committee of Experts in matière de séquestre de biens matters of enemy property custoennemis en vue de résoudre les dianship in order to overcome

difficultés pratiques de droit et practical difficulties of law and d'interprétation qui pourraient interpretation which may arise. surgir. Le Comité devra veiller The Committee should in particunotamment à éviter tout ce qui lar guard against schemes which pourrait avoir pour résultat le might result in effecting fictitious maintien de transactions fictives or other transactions designed to ou autres, destinées soit à favo- favour enemy interests, or to reriser des intérêts ennemis, soit à duce improperly the amount of diminuer indûment la masse des assets which might be allocated to biens susceptible d'être affectée reparation.

aux réparations.

ARTICLE 7.

ARTICLE 7.

Approvisionnements capturés.

Captured Supplies.

La valeur des approvisionne- The value of supplies and other ments et autres matériels sus- materials susceptible of civilian ceptibles de servir à des usages use captured from the German civils, pris aux forces armées alle- Armed Forces in areas outside mandes hors d'Allemagne et remis Germany and delivered to Signaà des Gouvernements signataires, tory Governments shall be charged sera imputée sur leurs parts de against their reparation shares in réparations pour autant que ces so far as such supplies and maapprovisionnements et ces ma- terials have not been or are not, tériels n'auront pas été payés, ou in the future either paid for or

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL GERMAN REPARATION--JAN. 14, 1946

bien remis en vertu d'autres ar- delivered under arrangements pre-

rangements ne prévoyant pas de cluding any charge. contre-partie .
Il est reconnu que les transferts It is recognized that transfers of
de tels matériels et approvisionne- such supplies and materials by ments par les Gouvernements des the United Kingdom and United États-Unis d'Amérique et du States Governments to other Gov-

Royaume-Uni à d'autres Gouver- ernments are agreed to be subject

nements sont soumis à telle appro- to such final approval by the legis-

bation définitive par les organes lature of the United Kingdom or

législatifs de ces deux pays qui the United States of America as

pourrait être nécessaire.

may be required .

ARTICLE 8.

ARTICLE 8 .

Attribution d'une part des répara- Allocation of a Reparation Share

tions aux victimes non rapatriables de l'action allemande.

to Nonrepatriable Victims of German Action .

Étant donné qu'un grand nom- In recognition of the fact that bre de personnes ont souffert large numbers of persons have sufcruellement du fait des nazis et fered heavily at the hands of the ont actuellement un besoin impé- Nazis and now stand in dire need rieux d'être aidées pour leur "ré- of aid to promote their rehabilitahabilitation ", mais ne peuvent tion but will be enable to claim demander l'assistance d'aucun the assistance of any Government
Gouvernement recevant des répa- receiving reparation from Germarations de l'Allemagne, les Gou- ny, the Governments of the Unitvernements des États-Unis d'Amé- ed States of America, France , the rique, de la France, du Royaume- United Kingdom , Czechoslovakia Uni, de la Tchécoslovaquie et de and Yugoslavia , in consultation la Yougoslavie, en consultation with the Inter- Governmental avec le Comité Intergouvernemen- Committee on Refugees , shall as tal des Réfugiés , établiront d'ur- soon as possible work out in comgence un plan, agréé d'un commun mon agreement a plan on the folaccord, et ce sur les bases généra- lowing general lines : les suivantes:
A. Une part des réparations , A. A share of reparation conconstituée par l'ensemble de l'or sisting of all the non-monetary non monétaire trouvé en Alle- gold found by the Allied Armed magne par les forces armées alliées Forces in Germany and in addition et par une somme complémen- a sum not exceeding 25 million taire n'excédant pas 25 millions dollars shalf be allocated for the de dollars , sera affectée à la "ré- rehabilitation and resettlement of habilitation" et au réétablissement non -repatriable victims of German des victimes non rapatriables de action . l'action allemande.
B. Cette somme de 25 millions B. The sum of 25 million dol-
de dollars sera prélevée sur le pro- lars shall be met from a portion duit de la liquidation des avoirs of the proceeds of German assets

3171

3172

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

allemands se trouvant dans les in neutral countries which are

pays neutres et disponibles pour available for reparation.

les réparations . C. Les Gouvernements des pays

C. Governments of neutral

neutres seront priés de rendre dis- countries shall be requested to ponibles à cette fin (en sus de la make available for this purpose somme de 25 millions de dollars) , (in addition to the sum of 25 mil-

les avoirs dans les dits pays appar- lion dollars) assets in such countenant à des victimes d'actes des tries of victims of Nazi action who

nazis qui sont mortes depuis sans have since died and left no heirs. laisser d'héritiers .

D. Seules seront susceptibles D. The persons eligible for aid

d'être admises à bénéficier de under the plan in question shall be l'assistance prévue par le plan restricted to true victims of Nazi dont il s'agit les personnes ainsi persecution and to their immediate que leur famille et les personnes families and dependents, in the à leur charge-qui ont été réelle- following classes : ment victimes des persécutions nazies et qui appartiennent aux catégories suivantes:

(i) Réfugiés de l'Allemagne ou (i) Refugees from Nazi Germany de l'Autriche national-socialistes or Austria who require aid and

qui ont besoin d'assistance et ne cannot be returned to their counpeuvent pas être renvoyés dans tries within a reasonable time

leur pays dans un délai raison- because of prevailing conditions ; nable par suite des conditions existantes ;
(ii) Ressortissants allemands et (ii) German and Austrian autrichiens résidant actuellement nationals now resident in Germany

en Allemagne ou en Autriche, or Austria in exceptional cases in dans les cas exceptionnels où il which it is reasonable on grounds est raisonnable, pour des considéra- of humanity to assist such persons tions d'humanité, de les aider à to emigrate and providing they émigrer et pourvu qu'ils émigrent emigrate to other countries within effectivement dans un délai raison- a reasonable period ; nable ;
(iii) Ressortissants des pays (iii) Nationals of countries for-

antérieurement occupés par les merly occupied by the Germans Allemands qui ne peuvent pas who cannot be repatriated or are être rapatriés , ou ne sont pas not in a position to be repatriated à même de l'être dans un délai within a reasonable time. In raisonnable. Afin de réserver order to concentrate aid on the

toute l'assistance aux réfugiés les most needy and deserving refugees plus malheureux et les plus méri- and to exclude persons whose tants, et d'exclure de son bénéfice loyalty to the United Nations is les personnes dont la loyauté à or was doubtful, aid shall be l'égard des Nations Unies est, ou restricted to nationals or former a été, douteuse , l'assistance ne nationals of previously occupied sera accordée aux ressortissants countries who were victims of

ou anciens ressortissants des pays German concentration camps or

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN REPARATION--JAN. 14, 1946

3173

antérieurement occupés que s'ils of concentration camps established ont été internés dans des camps de by regimes under Nazi influence concentration nazis ou dans des but not including persons who

camps de concentration institués have been confined only in prisonpar des régimes subissant l'in- ers of war camps . fluence nazie, non compris les personnes qui n'ont été internées

que dans des camps de prisonniers de guerre .
E. Les fonds rendus disponibles

Administration of E. The sums made available sums.

conformément aux paragraphes A under paragraphs A and B above

et B ci-dessus seront gérés par le shall be administered by the Inter-

Comité Intergouvernemental des Governmental Committee on Ref-

Réfugiés ou par un Organisme des ugees or by a United Nations Nations Unies auquel les fonctions Agency to which appropriate func-

que le Comité Intergouverne- tions of the Inter-Governmental

mental exerce dans ce domaine Committee may in the future

pourront être transférées dans be transferred . The sums made

l'avenir. Les fonds rendus dispo- available under paragraph Cabove

nibles aux termes du paragraphe shall be administered for the C ci-dessus seront gérés pour les general purposes referred to in

fins générales visées par le présent this Article under a program of article, conformément à un pro- administration to be formulated

gramme de gestion qui sera établi by the five Governments named par les cinq Gouvernements ci- above . dessus.
F. L'or non monétaire trouvé F. The non-monetary gold

en Allemagne sera mis à la dis- found in Germany shall be placed

position du Comité Intergouverne- at the disposal of the Inter-

mental des Réfugiés aussitôt que Governmental Committee on Ref-

le plan aura été élaboré.

ugees as soon as a plan has been

worked out as provided above. G. Le Comité Intergouverne- G. The Inter - Governmental mental des Réfugiés aura le pou- Committee on Refugees shall have voir d'assurer la réalisation des power to carry out the purposes fins pour lesquelles le fonds est of the fund through appropriate créé, par l'intermédiaire d'orga- public and private field organisanismes d'exécution compétents de tions.

caractère public ou privé. H. Les fonds seront employés ,

H. The fund shall be used , not

non à indemniser des victimes for the compensation of individual

individuelles, mais à faciliter la victims, but to further the reha-

"réhabilitation " ou le réétablisse- bilitation or resettlement of per-

ment des personnes appartenant sons in the eligible classes .

aux catégories bénéficiaires de

l'assistance . I. Aucune
sent article

disposition du préne sera considérée

I. Nothing in this Article shall be considered to prejudice the

Claims ofindividual refugees against future German Government.

comme préjugeant les réclama- claims which individual refugees
tions que des réfugiés pourront may have against a future Ger95347° 49- PT. III- -57

3174

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

être fondés à présenter à titre man Government, except to the individuel à un Gouvernement amount of the benefits that such allemand futur, sauf dans la me- refugees may have received from sure où ces réfugiés ont bénéficié the sources referred to in parades ressources prévues aux para- graph A and C above. graphes A et C ci-dessus.

PARTIE II.

PART II.

Agence interalliée des réparations. Inter-allied reparation agency.

ARTICLE PREMIER.

ARTICLE 1 .

Constitution de l'agence.

Establishment of the Agency.

Les Gouvernements signataires The Governments Signatory to du présent Accord établissent une the present Agreement hereby Agence Interalliée des Répara- establish an Inter-Allied Reparations (ci-après appelée " l'Agence ") . tion Agency (hereinafter referred Chacun d'eux nomme un délé- to as "The Agency") . Each Govgué à l'Agence et peut également ernment shall appoint a Delegate nommer un délégué suppléant , to the Agency and shall also be lequel , en l'absence du délégué, a entitled to appoint an Alternate les fonctions et pouvoirs de celui-ci . who , in the absence of the Dele-
gate , shall be entitled to exercice all the functions and rights of the Delegate .

ARTICLE 2 .

ARTICLE 2.

Fonctions de l'Agence.

Functions ofthe Agency.

A. L'Agence répartit entre les A. The Agency shall allocate

Gouvernements signataires les ré- German reparation among the

parations allemandes conformé- Signatory Governments in accord-

ment aux dispositions du présent ance with the provisions of this

Accord et de tous autres accords Agreement and of any other

qui sont ou seront en vigueur agreements from time to time in entre les Gouvernements signa- force among the Signatory Govtaires . A cette fin , l'Agence est ernments. For this purpose, the

l'organe par lequel les Gouverne- Agency shall be the medium

ments signataires reçoivent les through which the Signatory Gov-

informations relatives aux presta- ernments receive information contions disponibles à titre de répa- cerning, and express their wishes

rations et expriment leurs deside- in regard to , items available as

rata en la matière.

reparation .

B. L'Agence traite toutes ques- B. The Agency shall deal with

tions concernant la restitution à un all questions relating to the resti-

Gouvernement signataire d'un bien tution to a Signatory Government

situé dans l'une des zones occiden- of property situated in one of the

tales d'Allemagne , qui lui sont Western Zones of Germany which

déférées par le Commandant en may be referred to it by the Com-

chef de cette zone (agissant pour mander of that Zone (acting on le compte de son Gouvernement) , behalf of his Government) , in

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-GERMAN REPARATION-JAN. 14, 1946

en accord avec le ou les Gouverne- agreement with the claimant Sig-

ments demandeurs , sans préjuger natory Government or Govern-

toutefois le règlement de ces ques- ments, without prejudice, how-

tions entre les Gouvernements ever, to the settlement of such

signataires intéressés , soit par voie questions by the Signatory Gov-

d'accord, soit par une procédure ernments concerned either by

arbitrale .

agreement or arbitration .

ARTICLE 3 .

ARTICLE 3.

Organisation intérieure de l'Agence. Internal Organisation ofthe Agency.

A. Les organes de l'Agence sont A. The organs of the Agency

l'Assemblée et le Secrétariat.

shall be the Assembly and the

Secretariat.

B. L'Assemblée se compose des B. The Assembly shall consist

délégués ; elle est présidée par le of the Delegates and shall be pre-

Président de l'Agence. Le Prési- sided over by the President of the

dent de l'Agence est le délégué du Agency . The President of the

Gouvernement français .

Agency shall be the Delegate of

the Government of France.

C. Le Secrétariat est sous la C. The Secretariat shall be

direction d'un Secrétaire général, under the direction of a Secretary assisté de deux Secrétaires géné- General, assisted by two Deputy

raux adjoints . Le Secrétaire géné- Secretaries General. The Secre-

ral et les deux Secrétaires généraux tary General and the two Deputy

adjoints sont nommés par les Secretaries General shall be apGouvernements des Etats-Unis pointed by the Governments of

d'Amérique, de la France et du France, the United States of Amer-

Roayume-Uni . Le Secrétariat a un ica and the United Kingdom. The caractère international. Il agit Secretariat shall be international

pour le compte de l'Agence et non in character. It shall act for the

pour le compte des Gouverne- Agency and not for the individual

ments signataires pris individuelle- Signatory Governments. ment .

ARTICLE 4.

ARTICLE 4.

Fonctions du Secrétariat.

Functions of the Secretariat.

Les fonctions du Secrétariat The Secretariat shall have the

sont les suivantes :

following functions :

A. Etablir des programmes pour A. To prepare and submit to

la répartition des réparations alle- the Assembly programs for the mandes et les soumettre à l'Assem- allocation of German reparation ; blée ;
B. Tenir une comptabilité dé- B. To maintain detailed ac-

taillée des biens disponibles au counts of assets available for , and

titre des réparations allemandes of assets distributed as, German

et des biens répartis à ce titre ;

reparation ;

C. Etablir le budget de l'Agence C. To prepare and submit to

et le soumettre à l'Assemblée ;

the Assembly the budget of the

Agency ;

3175

3176

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

D. Remplir telles autres fonc- D. To perform such other ad-

tions administratives qui pourront ministrative functions as may be

être nécessaires.

required .

ARTICLE 5.

ARTICLE 5 .

Fonctions de l'Assemblée.

Functions of the Assembly.

Sous réserve des dispositions des Subject to the provisions of articles 4 et 7 de la Partie II du Articles 4 and 7 of Part II of this présent Accord , l'Assemblée fait Agreement, the Assembly shall les attributions au titre des répa- allocate German reparation among rations allemandes entre les Gou- the Signatory Governments in vernements signataires conformé- conformity with the provisions of ment aux dispositions du présent this Agreement and of any other Accord et de tous autres accords agreements from time to time in qui sont ou seront en vigueur entre force among the Signatory Govlesdits Gouvernements signataires , ernments . It shall also approve Elle approuve également le budget the budget of the Agency and shall de l'Agence et remplit toutes perform such other functions as autres fonctions compatibles avec are consistent with the provisions les dispositions du présent Accord . of this Agreement.

ARTICLE 6.

ARTICLE 6.

Vote à l'Assemblée .

Voting in the Assembly.

Sauf dispositions contraires du Except as otherwise provided in

présent Accord , chaque délégué this Agreement, each Delegate

dispose d'une voix. Les décisions shall have one vote. Decisions in

de l'Assemblée sont prises à la the Assembly shall be taken by a

majorité des votes exprimés .

majority of the votes cast.

ARTICLE 7.

ART. 7.

Recours contre les décisions de Appeal from Decisions of the As-

l'Assemblée .

sembly.

A. Lorsque l'Assemblée n'a pas A. When the Assembly has not donné satisfaction à la demande agreed to a claim presented by a

d'un délégué tendant à faire at- Delegate that an item should be tribuer un bien à son Gouverne- allocated to his Government, the

ment , l'Assemblée porte la ques- Assembly shall, at the request of

tion à l'arbitrage, si ce délégué en that Delegate and within the time

fait la requête, dans le délai pre- limit prescribed by the Assembly,

scrit par l'Assemblée. L'effet de refer the question to arbitration.

ce recours à l'arbitrage est sus- Such reference shall suspend the

pensif.

effect of the decision of the As-

sembly on that item .

B. Les délégués des Gouverne- B. The Delegates of the Gov-

ments qui demandent un bien ernment claiming an item referred

dont l'attribution est soumise à to arbitration under paragraph A

l'arbitrage en vertu du para- above shall elect an Arbitrator

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-GERMAN REPARATION--JAN. 14, 1946

graphe A ci-dessus désignent un from among the other Delegates. arbitre choisi parmi les autres If agreement cannot be reached délégués . Si l'accord ne peut se upon the selection of an Arbitrator, faire sur le choix de l'arbitre, le the United States Delegate shall délégué des Etats-Unis d'Améri- either act as Arbitrator or appoint que assume les fonctions d'arbitre as Arbitrator another Delegate ou désigne un arbitre parmi les from among the Delegates whose délégués dont les Gouvernements Governments are not claiming the ne demandent pas le bien en ques- item. If the United States Govtion . Si le Gouvernement des ernment is one of the claimant
Etats-Unis d'Amérique est l'un Governments , the President of the des Gouvernements qui deman- Agency shall appoint as Arbitrator dent le bien dont il s'agit, le Prési- a Delegate whose Government is dent de l'Agence désigne comme not a claimant Government. arbitre un délégué dont le Gouvernement n'est pas dans la même situation .

ARTICLE 8.

ARTICLE 8 .

Pouvoirs de l'arbitre.

Powers of the Arbitrator.

Lorsque la question de l'attri- When the question of the allobution d'un bien est déférée à cation of any item is referred to l'arbitrage, conformément à l'arti- arbitration under Article 7 of Part cle 7 de la Partie II du présent II of this Agreement, the ArbiAccord, l'arbitre a le pouvoir trator shall have authority to d'attribuer, en dernier ressort, le make final allocation of the item bien en question à l'un des Gou- among the claimant Governments. vernements demandeurs. L'arbi- The Arbitrator may, at his discretre peut, s'il le juge bon, renvoyer tion, refer the item to the Secreau Secrétariat, pour examen sup- tariat for further study. He may plémentaire, l'attribution du bien also, at his discretion, require the en question . Il peut aussi, s'il le Secretariat to resubmit the item
juge bon, demander au Secrétariat to the Assembly. de soumettre à nouveau l'attribu-
tion du bien en question à l'Assemblée.

ARTICLE 9 .

ARTICLE 9 .

Dépenses .

Expenses .

A. Chaque Gouvernement paye A. The salaries and expenses of

les traitements et indemnités de the Delegates and of their staffs

ses délégués et du personnel de sa shall be paid by their own Govern-

délégation.

ments.

B. Les dépenses communes de B. The common expenses of the

l'Agence sont payées sur les fonds Agency shall be met from the funds

de l'Agence . Ces fonds sont four of the Agency. For the first two nis par chaque Gouvernement years from the date of the estabsignataire pour les deux premières lishment of the Agency, these

3177

3178

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

années à partir de l'établissement funds shall be contributed in prode l'Agence, proportionnellement portion to the percentage shares of

à sa quote-part dans l'ensemble the Signatory Governments in des biens de la catégorie B, et, par Category B and thereafter in pro-

la suite, proportionnellement à sa portion to their percentage in

quote-part dans l'ensemble des Category A.

biens de la catégorie A. C. Chaque Gouvernement si-

C. Each Signatory Govern-

gnataire paye sa part contributive ment shall contribute its share in

au budget de l'Agence pour chaque the budget of the Agency for each période budgétaire (telle qu'elle budgetary period (as determined est définie par l'Assemblée ) au by the Assembly) at the beginning début de cette période, étant en- of that period ; provided that each tendu que chaque Gouvernement, Government shall, when this

lorsqu'il signe le présent Accord , Agreement is signed on its behalf, fournit sur un total de 50.000 livres contribute a sum equivalent to sterling une contribution au moins not less than its Category B perproportionnelle à sa quote-part centage share of £50,000 and shall, dans l'ensemble des biens de la within three months there after, catégorie B, et qu'il verse, dans les contribute the balance of its share

trois mois qui suivent, le solde de in the budget of the Agency for sa part contributive au budget de the budgetary period in which this l'Agence pour la période budgé- Agreement is signed on its behalf. taire au cours de laquelle il signe cet Accord .

D. Toutes les sommes dues par D. All contributions by the Sigles Gouvernements signataires natory Governments shall be made

sont acquittées en francs belges ou in Belgian francs or such other

en une ou plusieurs autres mon- currency or currencies as the

naies fixées par l'Agence.

Agency may require.

ARTICLE 10.

ARTICLE 10.

Vote du budget.

Voting ofthe Budget.

Lors de l'examen du budget de In considering the budget of
l'Agence, pour toute période bud- the Agency for any budgetary gétaire chaque délégué dispose à period, the vote of each Delegate l'Assemblée d'un nombre de voix in the Assembly shall be propor-
proportionnel à la part contribu- tional to the share of the budget tive due par son Gouvernement for that period payable by his pour la période budgétaire con- Government. sidérée .

ARTICLE 11.

ARTICLE 11.

Langues officielles.

Official Languages.

Les langues officielles de The official languages of the

l'Agence sont l'anglais et le fran- Agency shal be English and

çais.

French .

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN REPARATION-JAN. 14, 1946

ARTICLE 12.

ARTICLE 12.

Bureaux de l'Agence.

Offices of the Agency.

Le siège de l'Agence est à The seat of the Agency shall be Bruxelles . L'Agence établit des in Brussels . The Agency shall organes de liaison dans tout autre maintain liaison offices in such

lieu que peut désigner l'Assemblée other places as the Assembly,

après s'être assurée des accords after obtaining the necessary con-

nécessaires .

sents, may decide.

ARTICLE 13 .

ARTICLE 13.

Retrait.

Withdrawal.

Tout Gouvernement signataire, Any Signatory Government, autre que les Gouvernements other than a Government which responsables du contrôle dans une is responsible for the control of a partie du territoire allemand , peut part of German territory, may se retirer de l'Agence après avoir withdraw from the Agency after adressé une notification écrite au written notice to the Secretariat. Secrétariat.

ARTICLE 14.

ARTICLE 14.

Amendements et dissolution .

Amendments and Termination .

La partie II du présent Accord This Part II of the Agreement

peut être amendée , ou l'Agence can be amended or the Agency dissoute, par une décision de terminated by a decision in the

l'Assemblée prise à la majorité Assembly of the majority of the

des voix exprimées, pourvu que Delegates voting, provided that les délégués qui forment cette the Delegates forming the major-

majorité représentent des Gouver- ity represent Governments whose

nements dont le total des quotes- shares constitute collectively not parts constitue au moins 80 p . 100 less than 80 per cent of the de l'ensemble des quotes-parts de aggregate of the percentage shares

la catégorie A.

in category A.

ARTICLE 15.

ARTICLE 15 .

Capacité juridique, immunités et privilèges.

Legal capacity.-Immunities and Privileges .

L'Agence jouit, sur le territoire The Agency shall enjoy in the de chaque Gouvernement signa- territory of each Signatory Govtaire , de la capacité juridique, ernment such legal capacity and ainsi que des privilèges , immuni- such privileges , immunities and tés et facilités qui lui sont néces- facilities, as may be necessary for saires pour exercer ses fonctions et the exercice of its functions and atteindre ses buts . Les repré- the fulfilment of its purpose. The sentants des Gouvernements representatives of the Signatory signataires et les fonctionnaires de Governments and the officials of

3179

3180

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

l'Agence jouissent également des the Agency shall enjoy such priv-

privilèges et immunités qui leur ileges and immunities as are neces-

sont nécessaires pour exercer en sary for the independent exercice

toute indépendance leurs fonctions of their functions in connection

en rapport avec l'Agence .

with the Agency.

PARTIE III.

PART III.

Restitution de l'or monétaire.

Restitution of monetary gold.

Distribution pool.

ARTICLE UNIQUE .

SINGLE ARTICLE.

A. Tout l'or monétaire trouvé A. All the monetary gold found en Allemagne par les forces ar- in Germany by the Allied Forces mées alliées et celui visé au para- and that referred to in paragraph graphe G ci-dessus (y compris les G below (including gold coins, monnaies d'or, à l'exception de except those of numismatic or celles qui ont une valeur numis- historical value , which shall be matique ou historique , qui seront restored directly if identifiable) restituées immédiatement si elles shall be pooled for distribution as sont identifiables ) sera réuni en restitution among the countries une masse commune pour être participating in the pool in proporréparti à titre de restitutions, tion to their respectives losses of entre les pays admis à bénéficier gold through looting or by wrongde cette masse , au prorata des ful removal to Germany. quantités d'or qu'ils ont respectivement perdues du fait de spoliations par l'Allemagne ou de transferts illégitimes en Allemagne.
B. Sans préjudice des demandes B. Without prejudice to claims visant l'or non restitué, présentées by way of reparation for unau titre des réparations , la quan- restored gold , the portion of monetité d'or monétaire revenant à tary fold thus accruing to each chacun des pays admis à bénéficier country participating in the pool de cette masse sera acceptée par ce shall be accepted by that country dernier en règlement complet et in full satisfaction of all claims définitif de toute créance sur against Germany for restitution l'Allemagne au titre des restitu- of monetary gold . tions d'or monétaire .
C. Une part proportionnelle de C. A proportional share of the l'or sera attribuée à chacun des gold shall be allocated to each pays intéressés qui accepte le country concerned which adheres présent arrangement concernant la to this arrangement for the restirestitution de l'or monétaire et qui tution of monetary gold and which peut établir qu'une quantité déter- can establish that a definite amount minée d'or monétaire lui appar- of monetary gold belonging to it tenant a fait l'objet de spoliation was looted by Germany or , at any par l'Allemagne ou, à une date time after March 12th , 1938 , was quelconque après le 12 mars 1938 , wrongfully removed into German de transfert illégitime en territoire territory. allemand .

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL GERMAN REPARATION- JAN. 14, 1946

3181

D. La question de la participa- D. The question of the eventual tion éventuelle de pays non repré- participation of countries not repsentés à la Conférence (autres que resented at the Conference (other l'Allemagne, mais y compris l'Au- than Germany but including Austriche et l'Italie) à la répartition tria and Italy) in the above susmentionnée est réservée et mentioned distribution shall be

l'équivalent de ce qui constituerait reserved , and the equivalent of la totalité des quotes-parts de ces the total shares which these counEtats , s'ils venaient à être admis à tries would receive, if they were cette répartition , sera mis en eventually admitted to partici-

réserve pour qu'il en soit disposé pate , shall be set aside to be dis-

ultérieurement selon ce qui sera posed of at a later date in such

décidé par les Gouvernements alliés intéressés .
E. Les divers pays admis à
bénéficier de cette masse fourniront aux Gouvernements des Etats-

manner as may be decided by the Allied Governments concerned.
E. The various countries par-
ticipating in the pool shall supply to the Governments of the United

Data regarding gold losses.

Unis d'Amérique , de la France et States of America , France and the du Royaume-Uni , en tant que United Kingdom, as the occupying Puissances occupantes intéressées , Powers concerned , detailed and des renseignements détaillés et verifiable data regarding the gold vérifiables sur les pertes d'or qu'ils losses suffered through looting by, ont subies du fait que l'Allemagne or removal to, Germany. les a spoliés de cet or ou que cet or a été transporté sur son territoire.
F. Les Gouvernements des F. The Governments of the

Etats-Unis d'Amérique , de la United States of America, France France et du Royaume-Uni pren- and the United Kingdom shall dront toutes mesures utiles dans take appropriate steps within the

les zones qu'ils occupent respec- Zones of Germany occupied by tivement en Allemagne pour l'exé- them respectively to implement cution d'une répartition conforme distribution in accordance with

aux dispositions qui précèdent .

the foregoing provisions.

G. Tout or monétaire qui pourra G. Any monetary gold which

être récupéré d'un pays tiers dans may be recovered from a third

lequel il a été transféré par country to which it was transl'Allemagne sera réparti confor- ferred from Germany shall be dis-

mément au présent arrangement tributed in accordance with this

concernant la restitution de l'or arrangement for the restitution of

monétaire .

monetary gold .

PARTIE IV.

PART IV.

Entrée en vigueur et signature.

Entry into force and signature.

ARTICLE PREMIER.

ARTICLE 1 .

Entrée en vigueur.

Entry into force.

Le présent Accord pourra être This Agreement shall be open signé par tout Gouvernement for signature on behalf of any

3182

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

représenté à la Conférence de Paris Government represented at the

sur les Réparations.

Paris Conference on Reparation.

Dès qu'il aura été signé par des As soon as it has been signed on

Gouvernements ayant droit col- behalf of Governments collectively

lectivement à au moins 80 p. 100 entitled to not less than 80 p. 100 des parts prévues pour les Gou- of the aggregate of shares in Cate-

vernements signataires dans la caté- gory A of German reparation, it gorie A des réparations alleman- shall come into force ['] among

des, il entrera en vigueur entre such Signatory Governments. lesdits Gouvernements .

L'Accord sera ensuite en vigueur The Agreement shall thereafter

entre lesdits Gouvernements et tel be in force among such Govern-

Gouvernement qui le signerait ments and those Governments on

ultérieurement .

whose behalf it is subsequently

ARTICLE 2.

signed .

ARTICLE 2 .

Signature.

Signature.

La signature par chaque Gou- The signature of each contractvernement contractant sera con- ing Government shall be deemed

sidérée comme impliquant que to mean that the effect of the

l'effet du présent Accord s'étend present Agreement extends to the à ses colonies, territoires d'outre- colonies and overseas territories of

mer et territoires sous sa protec- such Government, and to terri-

tion, ou sa suzeraineté, ou sur tories under its protection or

lesquels il exerce actuellement un suzerainety or over which it at

mandat .

present exercises a mandate.

En foi de quoi , les soussignés , In witness whereof, the under-

dûment habilités par leurs Gou- signed, duly authorized by their vernements respectifs , ont signé à respective Governments, have

Paris le présent Accord , en langues signed in Paris the present Agree-

anglaise et française, les deux ment in the English and French

textes faisant également foi , en un languages, the two texts being

seul exemplaire qui sera déposé equally authentic, in a single dans les archives du Gouverne- original, which shall be deposited

ment de la République française, in the Archives of the Govern-

lequel Gouvernement remettra ment of the French Republic, a copie conforme de ce texte à certified copy thereof beeing fur-

chacun des Gouvernements sig- nished by that Government to

nataires .

each signatory Government.

14 mars 1946 · 14 janvier 1946

Pour l'Albanie, For Albania,

Signé : KAHREMAN YLLI.

Pour les États-Unis

d'Amérique,

Signé :

For the United States JEFFERSON CAFFERY.

of America,

¹ [The agreement came into force on Jan. 24, 1946.]

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN REPARATION-JAN. 14, 1946

25 février 1946

Pour l'Australie, ·
For Australia,

Signé : W. R. HODGSON .

14 janvier 1946 ...

Pour la Belgique, For Belgium,

Pour le Canada , 30 janvier 1946 .. ... For Canada ,

20 février 1946 ·

Pour le Danemark, For Denmark,

Signé : GUILLAUME .
Signé : GEORGE P. VANIER.
Signé : J. C. W. KRUSE.

8 mars 1946 . · · 14 janvier 1946 . ·

Pour l'Égypte, For Egypt,
Pour la France, For France,

Signé : FAHKRY- PACHA .
Signé : BIDAULT.

Pour le Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord,
14 janvier 1946. . . For the United Kingdom of Great-Britain and Northern Ireland ,

Signé : DUFF COOPER.

24 janvier 1946 .

Pour la Grèce, For Greece,

Signé : P. A. ARGYROPOULO.

Pour l'Inde, 25 février 1946 . · ·
For India,

Signé : P. CHAUDHURI.

Ces signatures sont données en accord
avec le Représentant de Sa Majesté Britannique, qui exerce les fonctions de la Couronne dans les relations de celle-ci avec les États Indiens.

These signatures are appended in agreement with His Britannic Majesty's representative for the exercise of the functions of the Crown in its relation with the Indian States.

Pour le Luxembourg, 14 janvier 1946. . · For Luxembourg,

Signé : A. FUNCK.

6 février 1946

Pour la Norvège, ·
For Norway,

Signé : LUDWIG AUBERT.

20 février 1946 .

Pour la Nouvelle-Zé· lande,
For New-Zealand,

Signé : W. CLINKARD .

14 janvier 1946 . 27 février 1946 28 février 1946

Pour les Pays-Bas, For the Netherlands,

Signé : E. STAR-BUSMANN .

Pour la Tchécoslova-
quie, For Czechoslovakia,

Signé : JNDRICH NOSEK.

Pour l'Union de l'Afri-

que du Sud,

Signé :

For the Union of South DUFF COOPER.

Africa,

3183

3184

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

4 février 1946 .

Pour la Yougoslavie, ·
For Yugoslavia,

Signé : MARKO RISTIC.

Copie certifiée conforme à l'exemplaire original unique en langues

anglaise et française , déposé dans les Archives de la République

française.

Le Ministre Plenipotentiaire,

Chef du Service du Protocole,

e n

s

ine

e n

ma ai

y

utr

a J

I Jn

JACQUES DUMAINE.

61 STAT. ] PORTUGAL-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JUNE 28, 1947

3185

Agreements between the United States of America and Portugal respecting air transport services, amending the agreement of December 6, 1945. Effected by exchanges of notes signed at Lisbon June 28 , 1947; entered into force June 28, 1947.

June 28, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1656]

The American Ambassador to the Portuguese Minister of Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

EXCELLENCY:

Lisbon, June 28, 1947

I have the honor to confirm that it is mutually agreed by the

Governments of the United States of America and of Portugal that

the Annex to the Air Transport Agreement , between the two Govern-

ments, concluded on December 6, 1945 , shall be amended to read

as follows:

59 Stat. 1849.

SECTION I

A.

Airlines of the United States of America authorized under the

U. S. rights of transit and stop in Portu-

present agreement are accorded rights of transit and non-traffic stop guese territory.

in Portuguese territory. The right to pick up and discharge inter-

national traffic in passengers, cargo and mail at the Azores , Lisbon

and Macao is granted on the following routes via intermediate points in both directions:

1. The United States to the Azores and thence (a ) to London and beyond, on a route without stops in the Iberian Peninsula, and (b) to Lisbon and thence (a , ) to London and (b, ) to Barcelona and points beyond. 2. The United States to Lisbon (the airline operating this route will have the right of non-traffic stop at the Azores) thence to Madrid and points beyond . 3. The United States to the Azores and points beyond to the Union of South Africa. 4. The United States via intermediate points in the Pacific to Macao thence to Hong-Kong (and/or Canton) .
In addition to the routes enumerated above , airlines of the United States of America are accorded the right of non-traffic stop at the Azores on trans-Atlantic routes between the United States and the Continent of Europe, including the British Isles , on routes without stops in the Iberian Peninsula.
B. Airlines of Portugal authorized under the present agreement traPnosrittugaunesde sritgohptsionf are accorded rights of transit and non-traffic stop in the territory of U.S.

3186

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

the United States as well as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers , cargo , and mail at New York, Boston and Miami on the following routes via intermediate points in both directions :

1. Lisbon via the Azores (a) to Bermuda, New York City and Boston, or (b) to Gander, Boston and New York City. 2. Lisbon via the Azores and Bermuda to Miami and beyond.
SECTION II

Equal opportunity for operation.
Adequate capacity.
Right to embark, etc.

The contracting parties agree on the following:
1. That the air transport facilities available to the travelling public should bear a close relationship to the requirements of the public for such transport. 2. There shall be a fair and equal opportunity for the airlines of the two nations to operate on any route between their respective territories covered by the Agreement and this Annex. 3. That, in the operation by the air carriers of either Government of the trunk services described in this Annex, the interest of the air carriers of the other Government shall be taken into consideration so as not to affect unduly the services which the latter provides on all or part of the same routes. 4. It is understood by both Governments that services provided by a designated airline under the Agreement and this Annex shall retain as their primary objective the provision of capacity adequate to the traffic demands between the country of which such airline is a national and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic. The right to embark or disembark on such services international traffic destined for and coming from third countries at a point or points on the routes specified in this Annex shall be applied in accordance with the general principles of orderly development to which both Governments subscribe and shall be subject to the general principle that capacity should be related :
(a) To traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination ; (b) To requirements of through airline operation ; and (c) To the traffic requirements of the area through which the airline passes after taking account of local and regional services .

Accept , Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration . JOHN C. WILEY
His Excellency Dr. JOSE CAEIRO DA MATA, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Lisbon.

61 STAT. ] PORTUGAL- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES -JUNE 28, 1947

The Portuguese Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador MINISTÉRIO DOS NEGÓCIOS ESTRANGEIROS

DIRECÇÃO GERAL DOS
NEGÓCIOS POLÍTICOS E DA ADMINISTRAÇÃO INTERNA

LISBOA, 28 de Junho de 1947

SENHOR EMBAIXADOR ,

Tenho a honra de confirmar a V. Exª. ter sido mutuamente acordado

entre os Governos de Portugal e dos Estados Unidos da América que o Anexo ao Acordo de Transportes Aéreos entre os dois Governos , concluido em 6 de Dezembro de 1945 , ficará emendado por forma a ler-se como segue:

""

SECÇÃO I

A. As empresas de transporte aéreo dos Estados Unidos da América autorizadas nos termos do presente Acordo são concedidos os direitos de transito e de escala para fins não comerciais no território português. É concedido o direito de embarcar e desembarcar tráfego internacional de passageiros, carga e correio nos Açores, Lisboa e Macau , nas seguintes rotas, via pontos intermediários , em ambos os sentidos :

1- Estados Unidos para os Açores e daí (a) para Londres e além, numa rota sem escalas na Peninsula Ibérica, e (b) para Lisboa e daí (a, ) para Londres e (b, ) para Barcelona e pontos subsequentes . 2- Estados Unidos para Lisboa (a linha aérea que explorar esta rota terá direito a fazer escala, para fins não comerciais , nos

Açores ) , daí para Madrid e pontos subsequentes. 3 - Estados Unidos para os Açores e pontos subsequentes para a União da África do Sul. 4- Estados Unidos , via pontos intermediários no Pacífico , para Macau e daí para Hong-Kong (e ou Cantão ) .

Alem das rotas acima enumeradas, é concedido às empresas de transporte aéreo dos Estados Unidos da América o direito de fazerem escala, para fins não comerciais , nos Açores, em rotas transatlânticas entre os Estados Unidos e o Continente Europeu , incluindo as Ilhas Britânicas , sem escalas na Península Ibérica.
B. As empresas de transporte aéreo de Portugal autorizadas nos termos do presente Acordo são concedidos direitos de trânsito e escala, para fins não comerciais , no território dos Estados Unidos , bem como o direito de embarcar e desembarcar tráfego internacional de passageiros , carga e correio, em Nova York, Boston e Miami, nas seguintes rotas , via pontos intermediários , em ambos os sentidos :

1- Lisboa via Açores (a) para Bermudas, Cidade de Nova York e Boston ou (b) para Gander, Boston e Cidade de Nova York. 2- Lisboa, via Açores e Bermudas, para Miami e pontos subsequentes.

3187

3188

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SECÇÃO II As Partes Contratantes acordam no seguinte:

1 - As facilidades de transporte aéreo ao serviço do público deverão ser bem adaptadas às necessidades deste. 2 - Será oferecida às empresas de transporte aéreo das duas Partes Contratantes uma justa e igual oportunidade de exploração do tráfego nas rotas entre os seus respectivos territórios reguladas pelo Acordo e por este Anexo . 3 - Na exploração , pelas empresas de transporte aéreo de qualquer dos Governos , dos grandes serviços internacionais (trunk services ) descritos neste Anexo , serão tomados em consideração os interesses das empresas do outro Governo , de modo a não serem indevidamente afectados os serviços que estas exploram em toda ou em parte da extensão das rotas . 4- Fica entendido pelos dois Governos que os serviços explorados por uma empresa designada nos termos do Acordo e deste Anexo serão organizados tendo em mente que o objectivo principal a que visam é oferecer uma capacidade adequada à procura do tráfego entre o pais de que a empresa é nacional e o pais de destino útil do mesmo tráfego. Nestes serviços , o direito de embarcar ou desembarcar, em qualquer ponto ou pontos das rotas previstas neste Anexo , tráfego internacional, destinado ou proveniente de terceiros paises, será usado em conformidade com os princípios gerais de desenvolvimento ordenado do transporte aéreo aceites pelos dois Governos e será sujeito ao princípio geral de que a capacidade deve adaptar-se:
a) A procura do tráfego entre o pais de origem e os de destino ; b) As exigências de uma exploração económica dos serviços considerados ; c) As exigências do tráfego da área que a linha aérea atravessa, tidos em conta os serviços aéreos locais e regionais ."

Aproveito a oportunidade para apresentar a Vossa Excelência,

Senhor Embaixador, os protestos da minha mais alta consideração .

José CAEIRO DA MATA

Sua Excelência o

Senhor JOHN COOPER WILEY

Embaixador dos Estados Unidos da América

&

&

&

Translation MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF
POLITICAL AFFAIRS AND INTERIOR ADMINISTRATION

MR. AMBASSADOR :

LISBON, June 28, 1947

I have the honor to confirm to Your Excellency that it has been

mutually agreed between the Governments of Portugal and the

United States of America that the Annex to the Air Transport Agree-

61 STAT. ] PORTUGAL- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES -JUNE 28, 1947

3189

ment between the two Governments, signed on December 6 , 1945 , shall be amended to read as follows :

59 Stat. 1849.

[For the English language text of Sections I and II , see pp . 3185-3186 .]
I avail myself of the opportunity to present to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration .
JOSÉ CAEIRO DA MATA His Excellency
JOHN COOPER WILEY Ambassador of the United States of America

The American Ambassador to the Portuguese Minister of Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

EXCELLENCY:

Lisbon, June 28, 1947

It is mutually agreed by the Governments of the United States of America and of Portugal that, in addition to the routes described in the

Additional U. S. rights of transit and stterorpitoirny. Portuguese

Annex to the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America and Portugal , dated December 6 , 1945 , airlines of the United

59 Stat. 1849.

States of America operating on the following route are accorded the

rights of transit and non-traffic stop in Portuguese territory:

A. The United States via the East Coast of South America and inter-

mediate points to Johannesburg and Capetown.
Portuguese rights in It is equally agreed that airlines of Portugal operating on the follow- U.S.
ing route are accorded the rights of transit and non-traffic stop in United States territory :

B. Lisbon, via the Azores and/or Gander to Montreal.
I avail myself of this opportunity to express to Your Excellency the assurances of my high consideration .
JOHN C. WILEY His Excellency
Dr. JOSE CAEIRO DA MATA, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Lisbon.

The Portuguese Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador MINISTÉRIO DOS NEGÓCIOS ESTRANGEIROS

DIRECÇÃO GERAL DOS
NEGÓCIOS POLÍTICOS E DA ADMINISTRAÇÃO INTERNA

SENHOR EMBAIXADOR ,

LISBOA, 28 de Junho de 1947

Fica mutuamente acordado entre os Governos de Portugal e dos

Estados Unidos da America que , além das rotas descritas no Anexo ao 95347-49--PT. III -- 58

3190 59 Stat. 1849.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Acordo de Transportes Aéreos entre Portugal e os Estados Unidos da America, assinado em 6 de Dezembro de 1945 , são concedidos direitos de trânsito e escala, para fins não comerciais , no território português ,

às empresas de transporte aéreo dos Estados Unidos que explorárem a seguinte rota: A. Estados Unidos , via costa oriental da America do Sul e pontos intermediários , para Johanesburgo e Cidade do Cabo .

É igualmente acordado que são concedidos direitos de trânsito e escala, para fins não comerciais , no território dos Estados Unidos, às empresas de transporte aéreo de Portugal que explorárem a seguinte rota :

B. Lisboa, via Açores e/ou Gander, para Montreal. Aproveito esta oportunidade para apresentar a Vossa Excelência,
Senhor Embaixador , os protestos da minha mais alta consideração . JOSÉ CAEIRO DA MATA

Sua Excelência o

Senhor JOHN COOPER WILEY

Embaixador dos Estados Unidos da America

&

&

&

Translation MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF
POLITICAL AFFAIRS AND INTERIOR ADMINISTRATION

MR. AMBASSADOR:

LISBON, June 28, 1947

It is mutually agreed between the Governments of Portugal and the United States of America that , in addition to the routes described in the Annex to the Air Transport Agreement between Portugal and the United States of America, signed on December 6 , 1945 , rights of transit and non-traffic stop in Portuguese territory shall be granted to airlines of the United States which operate the following route:

A. United States via the east coast of South America and intermediate points, to Johannesburg and Capetown.

It is likewise agreed that rights of transit and non-traffic stop in the territory of the United States shall be granted to airlines of Portugal which operate the following route:

B. Lisbon via the Azores and/or Gander to Montreal.

I avail myself of this opportunity to present to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration .
JOSÉ CAEIRO DA MATA

His Excellency JOHN COOPER WILEY Ambassador of the United States of America

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN--JULY 18, 1946

3191

Accord between the United States of America, France, the United Kingdom , and Sweden respecting the liquidation of German property in Sweden. Effected by exchanges of notes signed at Washington July 18, 1946; entered into force March 28, 1947.

July 18, 1946 (T. I. A. S. 1657]

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief of the Swedish Delegation

WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946

DEAR JUSTICE SANDSTRÖM :

Delegations representing the Governments of the United

States of

Understanding between Swedish and

America, France, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Allied Delegations.

Northern Ireland on the one hand (hereinafter referred to as the

Allies) and the Government of Sweden on the other hand have met

in Washington and exchanged views on questions relative to German

interests in Sweden and the elimination of any possible risk of those

interests being used to support renewed German aggression. Following this exchange of views, and in reaffirmation of their

mutual support of these economic security objectives , the Swedish
and Allied Delegations have arrived at the following understanding: Swedish intention
1. (a) The Swedish Government confirms its intention to pursue to eliminate German a program of economic security by the elimination of German interests interests in Sweden.

in Sweden . (b) The Swedish Government further affirms that the Foreign

FCCO.

Capital Control Office (Flyktkapitalbyrån or the FCCO) will , for

this purpose, continue to uncover, take into control, liquidate, sell,

or transfer German property, that the procedure already informally established between the FCCO and the Allied Missions in Stockholm

shall be continued , as previously, as a means of exchanging informa-

tion regarding the discovery and liquidation of German property and affording mutual assistance in this program .
Availability of spe 2. The disposition of the proceeds of the German assets in Sweden, cial account.
after clearing against certain Swedish claims , will leave a balance which shall be considered to be 150 million kronor. To assist in pre-

venting disease and unrest in Germany, this sum of 150 million kronor will be made available in a special account with the Swedish Riksbank to be used for financing such purchases-in Sweden or in any other market-of essential commodities for the German economy as may

be agreed upon between the Swedish Government and the Allies .

Insofar as such purchases are made in the Swedish market the de-

liveries will be limited by the scarcity of available supplies .

3. The German owners concerned shall be indemnified in German

Indemnification German owners.

of

money for the property which has been liquidated or disposed of in

Sweden pursuant to this understanding . For this purpose, the com-

petent Swedish authority will give the Allies the necessary details

3192

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

with regard to the amount realized with particulars of the names and addresses of the German owners, and the Allied authorities in Germany will take the necessary steps in order that there will be recorded

Restitution oflooted gold to Allies.

the title of the German owners of the property liquidated to receive the counter value thereof.
4. (a) In pursuance of its policy to restitute looted property, the Swedish Government will effect restitution to the Allies of all gold

acquired by Sweden and proved to have been taken by the Germans

Barred claims.

from occupied countries, including any such gold transferred by the Swedish Riksbank to third countries. Any claims by Governments

of the occupied countries or their banks of issue not presented before July 1 , 1947 shall be considered to be barred .

(b) On the basis of present evidence, subject to further checking, it is assumed that the gold the Swedish Government has to restitute amounts to 7,155.32664 kilograms of fine gold, corresponding to the quantity of gold deriving from the Bank of Belgium which was acquired by the Swedish Riksbank and which is to be restituted in accordance with the foregoing.

(c) The Allied Governments undertake to hold the Swedish Gov-

ernment harmless from any claims deriving from transfers from the Swedish Riksbank to third countries of gold to be restituted according to the above declaration .

5. Divergencies on the interpretation and scope of the above

Representation of designated govern-
gmaetnitosnsb. y Allied dele-

clauses may, if the four Governments do not otherwise agree, be referred to arbitration.
6. The undersigned representatives of the Governments of the United States of America, France, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland state that insofar as the preceding pro-

visions are concerned , they are also acting on behalf of the Govern-

ments of Albania, Australia , Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Egypt,

Greece, India, Luxembourg, Norway, New Zealand , the Netherlands,

Czechoslovakia, the Union of South Africa and Yugoslavia, and so far

Inspection of Swedish-owned property in Germany.

as it is material, the banks of issue of those countries . 7. (a ) The three Allied Governments will make arrangements,
through their Missions in Stockholm, for the admission of an official

Swedish delegation which will be permitted to visit the zones of Ger-

many in the charge of those Governments, and to inspect properties of corporations in which Swedish nationals have a substantial owner-

ship interest, or which are directly owned by Swedish nationals. The inspection and other activities of the delegation will be limited

only by general requirements of military security and convenience,

and by such general laws and regulations as are applicable to all

persons travelling in Germany.

Property in Germany of nationals of

(b) It is the intention of the three Allied Governments to give

friendly foreign states. non-discriminatory protection to the property in Germany of

nationals of friendly foreign states, including property of corporations

in which they have a substantial ownership interest. Provision will

be made for equitable compensation in Germany with respect to

removals and other dispositions of such properties by the Allied

authorities in the zones of Germany occupied by them.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL--GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946

3193

Confirmation of un8. The Allied Governments will, in due time, require Germany or derstanding by
the future German Government to confirm the provisions of this Germany.

understanding insofar as they affect German property in Sweden. 9. This understanding, together with the further letters exchanged

Effective date.

today , shall , except where otherwise provided, take effect upon approval by the Swedish Riksdag. [ ]

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of our most distinguished consideration .
SEYMOUR J RUBIN

Chief of Delegation of United States CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Chief of French Delegation FRANCIS W MCCOMBE

Chief of Delegation of United Kingdom Justice EMIL SANDSTRÖM
Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations

WASHINGTON, D.C.

GENTLEMEN :

July 18, 1946

Delegations representing the Governments of the United States of America, France, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the one hand (hereinafter referred to as the Allies) and the Government of Sweden on the other hand have met in Washington and exchanged views on questions relative to German interests in Sweden and the elimination of any possible risk of those interests being used to support renewed German aggression .
Following this exchange of views, and in reaffirmation of their

mutual support of these economic security objectives , the Swedish and Allied Delegations have arrived at the following understanding:

1. (a) The Swedish Government confirms its intention to pursue a program of economic security by the elimination of German interests in Sweden.

(b) The Swedish Government further affirms that the Foreign

Capital Control Office (Flyktkapitalbyrån or the FCCO) will, for this

purpose, continue to uncover, take into control, liquidate , sell , or transfer German property, that the procedure already informally

1 [Notice of approval on Mar. 28, 1947 by the Swedish Government of "... the agreement concluded in Washington on July 18, 1946 , relative to German interests in Sweden, and the other agreements covered by the letters exchanged between the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations, on the one hand, and , on the other hand, the Chief of the Swedish Delegation , " [translation ] was communicated in a note of that date from the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Minister at Stockholm .]

3194

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
established between the FCCO and the Allied Missions in Stockholm shall be continued , as previously, as a means of exchanging information regarding the discovery and liquidation of German property and affording mutual assistance in this program .
2. The disposition of the proceeds of the German assets in Sweden , after clearing against certain Swedish claims , will leave a balance which shall be considered to be 150 million kronor. To assist in preventing disease and unrest in Germany, this sum of 150 million kronor will be made available in a special account with the Swedish Riksbank to be used for financing such purchases-in Sweden or in any other market-- of essential commodities for the German economy as may be agreed upon between the Swedish Government and the Allies . Insofar as such purchases are made in the Swedish market the deliveries will be limited by the scarcity of available supplies.
3. The German owners concerned shall be indemnified in German money for the property which has been liquidated or disposed of in Sweden pursuant to this understanding . For this purpose, the competent Swedish authority will give the Allies the necessary details with regard to the amount realized with particulars of the names and addresses of the German owners, and the Allied authorities in Germany will take the necessary steps in order that there will be recorded the title of the German owners of the property liquidated to receive the counter value thereof.
4. (a) In pursuance of its policy to restitute looted property, the Swedish Government will effect restitution to the Allies of all gold acquired by Sweden and proved to have been taken by the Germans from occupied countries, including any such gold transferred by the Swedish Riksbank to third countries. Any claims by Governments of the occupied countries or their banks of issue not presented before July 1 , 1947 shall be considered to be barred .
(b) On the basis of present evidence, subject to further checking, it is assumed that the gold the Swedish Government has to restitute amounts to 7,155.32664 kilograms of fine gold, corresponding to the quantity of gold deriving from the Bank of Belgium which was acquired by the Swedish Riksbank and which is to be restituted in accordance with the foregoing.
(c) The Allied Governments undertake to hold the Swedish Government harmless from any claims deriving from transfers from the Swedish Riksbank to third countries of gold to be restituted according to the above declaration.
5. Divergencies on the interpretation and scope of the above clauses may, if the four Governments do not otherwise agree, be referred to arbitration .
6. The undersigned representatives of the Governments of the United States of America , France, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland state that insofar as the preceding provisions are concerned, they are also acting on behalf of the Governments of Albania, Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, Greece, India, Luxembourg, Norway, New Zealand , the Netherlands,

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946

Czechoslovakia, the Union of South Africa and Yugoslavia, and so far as it is material, the banks of issue of those countries .
7. (a) The three Allied Governments will make arrangements , through their Missions in Stockholm , for the admission of an official Swedish delegation which will be permitted to visit the zones of Germany in the charge of those Governments , and to inspect properties of corporations in which Swedish nationals have a substantial ownership interest, or which are directly owned by Swedish nationals. The inspection and other activities of the delegation will be limited only by general requirements of military security and convenience , and by such general laws and regulations as are applicable to all persons travelling in Germany.
(b) It is the intention of the three Allied Governments to give nondiscriminatory protection to the property in Germany of nationals of friendly foreign states, including property of corporations in which they have a substantial ownership interest. Provision will be made for equitable compensation in Germany with respect to removals and other dispositions of such properties by the Allied authorities in the zones of Germany occupied by them.
8. The Allied Governments will, in due time, require Germany or the future German Government to confirm the provisions of this understanding insofar as they affect German property in Sweden .
9. This understanding, together with the further letters exchanged today, shall , except where otherwise provided , take effect upon approval by the Swedish Riksdag.
Accept, Gentlemen, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
EMIL SANDSTRÖM .

To the CHIEFS OF THE ALLIED DELEGATIONS

Chief of Swedish Delegation

3195

The Chiefs of the Allied Delegations to the Chief of the Swedish Delegation

WASHINGTON, D.C.

July 18, 1946

DEAR JUSTICE SANDSTRÖM: During the course of the discussions which have been concluded
concerning German property in Sweden, you advised us of the pro-

Restitution of loot-
ed property in Sweden .

cedures in effect in Sweden for the restitution of property located in

Sweden which was looted by Germany or its nationals. You made

known to us the fact that these procedures, as established by Swedish law of June 29, 1945 (No. 520) , provide a simple and inexpensive

method by which victims of spoliation may obtain restitution of their property in Sweden.

We wish to express our appreciation of these procedures which we have confidence the Government of Sweden will continue. In this

3196

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
connection, you will recall that the problem of locating looted securities was discussed . We appreciate the fact that your Government will consider sympathetically this problem and such procedures as the Allied Governments may subsequently propose to you for the purpose of facilitating the location of such securities.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of our most distinguished consideration.
SEYMOUR J RUBIN
Chief of Delegation of United States CHRISTIAN VALENSI
Chief of French Delegation FRANCIS W MCCOMBE
Justice EMIL SANDSTRÖM Chief of Delegation of United Kingdom Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chiefofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations

WASHINGTON D.C. July 18, 1946
GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today's
date in the following terms :

"During the course of the discussions which have been concluded

concerning German property in Sweden, you advised us of the pro-

cedures in effect in Sweden for the restitution of property located in Sweden which was looted by Germany or its nationals . You made

known to us the fact that these procedures, as established by Swedish

law of June 29 , 1945 (No. 520) , provide a simple and inexpensive method by which victims of spoliation may obtain restitution of their property in Sweden.

"We wish to express our appreciation of these procedures which we have confidence the Government of Sweden will continue . In

this connection, you will recall that the problem of locating looted

securities was discussed . We appreciate the fact that your Government will consider sympathetically this problem and such procedures as the Allied Governments may subsequently propose to

Expiration of Swedish law.

you for the purpose of facilitating the location of such securities. " I confirm that the above law will continue to be in force for the time

being but that it will expire on July 1 , 1947 , unless extended . I also

confirm the willingness of the Swedish Government to cooperate, in

particular, in locating looted securities within the framework of Swedish legislation and within the limits of practical possibilities.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946

Accept, Gentlemen, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration .
EMIL SANDSTRÖM.

To the CHIEFS OF THE ALLIED DELEGATIONS

Chief of Swedish Delegation

3197

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chiefofthe Swedish Delegation

WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946

DEAR JUSTICE SANDSTRÖM : In connection with the understanding we have reached , the Allied
Delegations pointed out the importance of the Swedish Government

Investigation of German assets held
outside of Sweden.

conducting investigations of German assets which are held outside of

Sweden by or through Swedish nationals or institutions . The Allied

Delegations pointed out that the uncovering of such assets can only

take place with the cooperation and assistance of the Government of Sweden.

It is therefore requested that the Government of Sweden take appropriate action through census and other means to identify such German assets as may be held outside Sweden by or through Swedish nationals or institutions and to make this information available to the Allied Governments.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of our most distinguished consideration.

SEYMOUR J RUBIN

Chief of Delegation of United States CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Chief of French Delegation FRANCIS W MCCOMBE

Justice EMIL SANDSTRÖM Chief of Delegation of United Kingdom Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations

GENTLEMEN:

WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today's date in the following terms:

"In connection with the understanding we have reached, the Allied Delegations pointed out the importance of the Swedish Government conducting investigations of German assets which are

3198

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

held outside of Sweden by or through Swedish nationals or institutions . The Allied Delegations pointed out that the uncovering of such assets can only take place with the cooperation and assistance of the Government of Sweden .
"It is therefore requested that the Government of Sweden take appropriate action through census and other means to identify such German assets as may be held outside Sweden by or through Swedish nationals or institutions and to make this information available to the Allied Governments."
I wish to advise you that my Government will take steps for the uncovering of such property. Information about such property will be given in the way foreseen for information about German property in Sweden.
Accept, Gentlemen, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
EMIL SANDSTRÖM.

To the CHIEFS OF THE ALLIED DELEGATIONS

Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief of the Swedish Delegation WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946

DEAR JUSTICE SANDSTRÖM:

Repatriation of certain Germans.

In connection with the understanding we have reached, the Allied

Delegations requested that the Swedish Government take all appropri-

ate steps to expedite and complete the repatriation of obnoxious

Germans now in Sweden.

In this connection, the Allied Delegations have noted with satisfaction the steps already taken .

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of our most distinguished consideration .
SEYMOUR J RUBIN

Chief of Delegation of United States CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Chief of French Delegation FRANCIS W MCCOMBE

Justice EMIL SANDSTRÖM Chief of Delegation of United Kingdom Chief of Swedish Delegation

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946

The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations
WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946
GENTLEMEN : I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today's
date in the following terms:
"In connection with the understanding we have reached , the Allied Delegations requested that the Swedish Government take all appropriate steps to expedite and complete the repatriation of obnoxious Germans now in Sweden.
"In this connection, the Allied Delegations have noted with satisfaction the steps already taken ."
I wish to state that it is the policy of the Government of Sweden to repatriate as soon as possible such Germans as are determined by the Government of Sweden, after appropriate investigation, to be obnoxious.
Accept, Gentlemen , the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
EMIL SANDSTRÖM.

To the CHIEFS OF THE ALLIED DELEGATIONS

Chief of Swedish Delegation

3199

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief of the Swedish Delegation

WASHINGTON, D.C.

July 18, 1946

DEAR JUSTICE SANDSTRÖM : In connection with the understanding we have reached , we have
discussed the property in Sweden of the German State Railways .

German State Railways .

We understand that the Swedish Government will give favorable con-

sideration to the question of putting the rolling stock and accessories

found in Sweden of the German State Railways at the disposal of the

appropriate Allied authorities .

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of our most distinguished consideration .
SEYMOUR J RUBIN

Chief of Delegation of United States CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Chief of French Delegation FRANCIS W MCCOMBE

Chief of Delegation of United Kingdom Justice EMIL SANDSTRÖM
Chief of Swedish Delegation

3200

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations
WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946
GENTLEMEN : I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today's
date in the following terms:
"In connection with the understanding we have reached , we have discussed the property in Sweden of the German State Railways. We understand that the Swedish Government will give favorable consideration to the question of putting the rolling stock and accessories found in Sweden of the German State Railways at the disposal of the appropriate Allied authorities ."
I confirm our understanding on this subject . Accept, Gentlemen , the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
EMIL SANDSTRÖM .

To the CHIEFS OF THE ALLIED DELEGATIONS

Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief of the Swedish Delegation

WASHINGTON, D.C.

July 18, 1946

German-owned patents in Sweden.

DEAR JUSTICE SANDSTRÖM : In connection with the understanding we have reached , it has been
agreed that, pending the conclusion of multilateral arrangements , to which it is the intention of the Allies to invite the Swedish Govern-

ment to adhere, and pending the decision of the Swedish Government

regarding participation in such arrangements , no German owned

patent in Sweden shall be sold or otherwise transferred for a period

of three months from today's date or such further period as may then

be agreed, except where, after notice to the Allies, it is found appro-

priate to sell patent rights as part of the sale of a German-controlled

German trademarks and copyrights.

enterprise . We have also discussed the problems arising out of German trade-
marks and copyrights. The Allied Governments contemplate that

international discussions may also take place with respect to these

matters, with the objective of establishing by agreement general

policies with a view to eliminating certain German trademarks and to

making freely available to the community such German copyrights

as have special value. Pending the making of multilateral arrange-

ments and the decision of the Swedish Government regarding partici-

pation in such arrangements, it is hoped that the Swedish Government

will not take any action which would preclude their adherence to a policy consistent with such arrangements .

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of our most distinguished consideration .
SEYMOUR J RUBIN
Chief of Delegation of United States CHRISTIAN VALENSI
Chief of French Delegation FRANCIS W MCCOMBE
Chief of Delegation of United Kingdom Justice EMIL SANDSTRÖM
Chief of Swedish Delegation

3201

The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations
WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946
GENTLEMEN : I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today in
the following terms:
"In connection with the understanding we have reached , it has been agreed that, pending the conclusion of multilateral arrangements , to which it is the intention of the Allies to invite the Swedish Government to adhere, and pending the decision of the Swedish Government regarding participation in such arrangements, no German-owned patent in Sweden shall be sold or otherwise transferred for a period of three months from today's date or such further period as may then be agreed , except where, after notice to the Allies, it is found appropriate to sell patent rights as part of the sale of a German-controlled enterprise.
"We have also discussed the problems arising out of German trademarks and copyrights . The Allied Governments contemplate that international discussions may also take place with respect to these matters, with the objective of establishing by agreement general policies with a view to eliminating certain German trademarks and to making freely available to the community such German copyrights as have special value . Pending the making of multilateral arrangements and the decision of the Swedish Government regarding participation in such arrangements, it is hoped that the Swedish Government will not take any action which would preclude their adherence to a policy consistent with such arrangements ."
In connection with the first paragraph of your letter, I confirm the understanding stated with reference to the disposition of Germanowned patents in Sweden.
As to German trademarks and copyrights , I shall not fail to bring your suggestions to the attention of my Government.

3202

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Accept, Gentlemen , the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
EMIL SANDSTRÖM.

To the CHIEFS OF THE ALLIED DELEGATIONS

Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation

WASHINGTON, D.C.

German official property in Sweden.

DEAR JUSTICE SANDSTRÖM :

July 18, 1946

In connection with the understanding we have reached , the Allied Governments wish to state that they reserve their claims with respect

to German official property in Sweden, such as the German legation building, its contents, and so forth.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of our most distinguished consideration.

SEYMOUR J RUBIN

Chief of Delegation of United States CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Chief of French Delegation FRANCIS W MCCOMBE

Justice EMIL SANDSTRÖM Chief of Delegation of United Kingdom Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations

GENTLEMEN:

WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today in the following terms:

"In connection with the understanding we have reached , the Allied Governments wish to state that they reserve their claims with respect to German official property in Sweden, such as the German legation building, its contents, and so forth."

I shall not fail to bring your statement to the knowledge of my Government .
Accept, Gentlemen , the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
EMIL SANDSTRÖM.

To the CHIEFS OF THE ALLIED DELEGATIONS

Chief of Swedish Delegation

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946

3203

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation

WASHINGTON, D.C.

DEAR JUSTICE SANDSTRÖM:

July 18, 1946

In connection with the understanding we have reached , we have Elimination of designated "black lists."
the honor to state that the Allied Governments , without awaiting

the conclusion of these discussions, but in recognition of the under-

standing reached with respect to the liquidation of German interests,

have eliminated the "black lists " , inter alia, so far as Sweden or known Swedish nationals are concerned . It is not the intention of

the Allied Governments to continue the "black lists" on an unofficial

or advisory basis.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of our most distinguished consideration.
SEYMOUR J RUBIN

Chief of Delegation of United States CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Chief of French Delegation FRANCIS W MCCOMBE

Justice EMIL SANDSTRÖM Chief of Delegation of United Kingdom Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chiefofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations

WASHINGTON, D.C.

GENTLEMEN :

July 18, 1946

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today's date in the following terms:

"In connection with the understanding we have reached, we

have the honor to state that the Allied Governments , without awaiting the conclusion of these discussions, but in recognition of the understanding reached with respect to the liquidation of German interests, have eliminated the "black lists", inter alia, so far as Sweden or known Swedish nationals are concerned . It is not the intention of the Allied Governments to continue the "black lists"

on an unofficial or advisory basis."

I am pleased to note your statement and I shall not fail to bring

it to the attention of my Government.

Accept, Gentlemen, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished

consideration .

EMIL SANDSTRÖM.

To the CHIEFS OF THE ALLIED DELEGATIONS

Chief of Swedish Delegation

3204

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief of the Swedish Delegation

Swedish representa tion in Germany.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

DEAR JUSTICE SANDSTRÖM:

July 18, 1946

In connection with the understanding which we have reached , the

subject of Swedish representation in Germany was discussed . We may confirm to you that the competent authorities of the Allied
Governments have this matter under consideration and that it is hoped that satisfactory arrangements, in a manner compatible with the necessities of the present situation in Germany, can in due course be worked out on an overall basis.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of our most distinguished con-

sideration .

SEYMOUR J. RUBIN

Chief of Delegation of United States CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Chief of French Delegation FRANCIS W MCCOMBE

Chief of Delegation of United Kingdom Justice EMIL SANDSTRÖM
Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations

WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18 , 1946
GENTLEMEN : I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today in
the following terms :
"In connection with the understanding which we have reached, the subject of Swedish representation in Germany was discussed .
"We may confirm to you that the competent authorities of the Allied Governments have this matter under consideration and that it is hoped that satisfactory arrangements , in a manner compatible with the necessities of the present situation in Germany, can in due course be worked out on an overall basis . "

I am pleased to note your statement and I shall not fail to bring it to the attention of my Government.
Accept, Gentlemen, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration .
EMIL SANDSTRÖM.

To the CHIEFS OF THE ALLIED DELEGATIONS

Chief of Swedish Delegation

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946

3205

The Chiefofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations

WASHINGTON, D.C.

July 18, 1946

GENTLEMEN : In connection with the understanding we have reached , I have the
honor to state on behalf of my Government that in the elimination of German interests in Sweden and the liquidation , sale, or transfer

Principles applicable in elimination of
GSewerdmeann, eitnct.erests in

of German property, and in approving the transferees, the following

principles and practices, inter alia, apply and will continue to be observed:

1. Due regard will be paid to world security interests,

especially

World security interests.

the interest of eliminating completely all forms of German control

and economic influence ; to the interests of the national economy ; and

to the obtaining of the highest possible prices. 2. Sales will be made to non-German nationals and, when practi-
cable, will be public sales, except in cases where the assets are acquired by the Swedish Government.

Sales, etc.

3. In any sales or liquidation , the interests of non-German foreign nationals will be protected to the same extent and in the same manner,

whether direct or indirect interests are involved, as those of Swedish

nationals , on condition of reciprocal treatment in the country of those nationals .
4. The FCCO will inquire into the bona fides of liens and claims against German property, particularly those which arose immediately prior to or after the outbreak of war.
5. German property to be dealt with under the understanding shall

Liens, etc. German property.

include all property owned or controlled , directly or indirectly, by any person or legal entity of German nationality inside of Germany, or subject to repatriation to Germany, other than persons whose case merits exceptional treatment .

Accept, Gentlemen, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
EMIL SANDSTRÖM.

To the CHIEFS OF THE ALLIED DELEGATIONS

Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation

DEAR JUSTICE SANDSTRÖM :

WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946

We have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today in the following terms :

"In connection with the understanding we have reached , I have
the honor to state on behalf of my Government that in the elimina95347°-49-PT. III- 59

3206

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
tion of German interests in Sweden and the liquidation, sale, or transfer of German property, and in approving the transferees , the following principles and practices , inter alia, apply and will continue to be observed :
"1. Due regard will be paid to world security interests, especially the interest of eliminating completely all forms of German control and economic influence ; to the interests of the national economy; and to the obtaining of the highest possible prices.
"2. Sales will be made to non-German nationals and, when practicable , will be public sales, except in cases where the assets are acquired by the Swedish Government.
"3. In any sales or liquidation , the interests of non-German foreign nationals will be protected to the same extent and in the same manner, whether direct or indirect interests are involved, as those of Swedish nationals, on condition of reciprocal treatment in the country of those nationals.
"4. The FCCO will inquire into the bona fides of liens and claims against German property, particularly those which arose immediately prior to or after the outbreak of war.
"5. German property to be dealt with under the understanding shall include all property owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by any person or legal entity of German nationality inside of Germany, or subject to repatriation to Germany, other than persons whose case merits exceptional treatment."
We are pleased to note the principles which you have stated . Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of our most distinguished consideration .
SEYMOUR J RUBIN
Chief of Delegation of United States CHRISTIAN VALENSI
Chief of French Delegation FRANCIS W MCCOMBE
Chief of Delegation of United Kingdom Justice EMIL SANDSTRÖM
Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chiefofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations

WASHINGTON, D.C.

GENTLEMEN :

July 18, 1946

I am authorized to make, on behalf of my Government, the follow-
ing statement. Contributions of Swedish Government. The Swedish Government in pursuing its policy to participate in
the work of reconstruction and rehabilitation has in connection with

the understanding we have reached found it appropriate to make the following contributions:

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946

3207

Funds available to 1. The Swedish Government will make available 50 million kronor Inter-Governmental
Refto the Inter-Governmental Committee on Refugees for use in rehabil- uCgoememsi. ttee on itation and resettlement of non-repatriable victims of German action.
You may rest assured that my Government , while reserving its decision as to the manner in which the funds will be made available,
will use its best efforts to make the funds available as soon as possible and in such manner as to best carry out the aims of the Committee.
Countries party to 2. The Swedish Government will further make available 75 million Paris Agreement on kronor, which it will allocate among countries party to the Paris Reparations. Agreement on Reparations. Decisions upon allocation will be made
after exchanges of views with the Allies acting on behalf of those countries and with favorable consideration of their views .
There will also be consultation between the Swedish Government
and each of the countries which may receive credit for any part
of this sum as regards the extent to which or manner in which benefit from its share shall be applied either in the remission , reduction or extension of any existing or future credit with Sweden of each such country, or otherwise, as may be agreed between each such country and Sweden.

Accept, Gentlemen, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
EMIL SANDSTRÖM

To the CHIEFS OF THE ALLIED DELEGATIONS

Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief of the Swedish Delegation

WASHINGTON, D.C.

DEAR JUSTICE SANDSTRÖM :

July 18, 1946

We have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today

in the following terms :

"I am authorized to make, on behalf of my Government, the following statement.
"The Swedish Government in pursuing its policy to participate in the work of reconstruction and rehabilitation has in connection with the understanding we have reached found it appropriate to make the following contributions :
"1. The Swedish Government will make available 50 million
kronor to the Inter-Governmental Committee on Refugees for use in rehabilitation and resettlement of non-repatriable victims of German action.
"You may rest assured that my Government, while reserving its decision as to the manner in which the funds will be made available, will use its best efforts to make the funds available as soon as possible and in such manner as to best carry out the aims of the Committee.

3208

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

"2. The Swedish Government will further make available 75 million kronor, which it will allocate among countries party to the Paris Agreement on Reparations. Decisions upon allocation will be made after exchanges of views with the Allies acting on behalf of those countries and with favorable consideration of their views.
"There will also be consultation between the Swedish Government and each of the countries which may receive credit for any part of this sum as regards the extent to which or manner in which benefit from its share shall be applied either in the remission, reduction or extension of any existing or future credit with Sweden of each such country, or otherwise, as may be agreed between each such country and Sweden."
We are pleased, on behalf of the Inter-Governmental Committee on Refugees and the countries signatory to the Paris Reparation Agreement, to note the contributions to be made by the Government of Sweden. We shall not fail to bring your statements on these subjects to their knowledge.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of our most distinguished consideration .
SEYMOUR J RUBIN

Chief of Delegation of United States CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Chief of French Delegation FRANCIS W MCCOMBE

Justice EMIL SANDSTRÖM

Chief of Delegation of United Kingdom

Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Ante, pp. 3191, 3194.

GENTLEMEN :

July 18, 1946

With regard to paragraphs 2 and 3 of the understanding concerning German assets in Sweden contained in the letters exchanged today, I wish to recall that the Swedish Government has been able to make the

engagement in paragraph 2 on the ground that the proceeds of the

liquidation are German property and may be used as payment for deliveries of commodities for Germany in conformity with the Swedish

clearing-legislation , provided compensation is given to the owner. It is understood that the Russian Government has no claim to use

the German assets in Sweden for the benefit of the Russian zone.

Accept, Gentlemen, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
EMIL SANDSTRÖM.

To the CHIEFS OF THE ALLIED DELEGATIONS

Chief of Swedish Delegation

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946

3209

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation

WASHINGTON, D.C.

DEAR JUSTICE Sandström:

July 18, 1946

We have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today

in the following terms :

"With regard to paragraphs 2 and 3 of the understanding concerning German assets in Sweden contained in the letters exchanged today, I wish to recall that the Swedish Government has been able to make the engagement in paragraph 2 on the ground that the proceeds of the liquidation are German property and may be used as payment for deliveries of commodities for Germany in conformity with the Swedish clearing-legislation , provided compensation is given to the owner.
"It is understood that the Russian Government has no claim to use the German assets in Sweden for the benefit of the Russian zone ."

Ante, pp. 3191, 3194.

We understand that your statement is not intended to affect the arrangements described in paragraphs 2 and 3 of our understanding dealing with the disposition of German assets in Sweden and the indemnification of the German owners.
We may confirm to you that, pursuant to the Potsdam Protocol, the U.S.S.R. has waived any claim to German assets in Sweden for itself or for the zone in Germany in its charge.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of our most distinguished consideration .
SEYMOUR J RUBIN
Chief of Delegation of United States
CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Chief of French Delegation FRANCIS W MCCOMBE

Justice EMIL SANDSTRÖM

Chief of Delegation of United Kingdom

Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations

WASHINGTON, D.C.

July 18, 1946

GENTLEMEN :

In connection with the understanding we have reached , I have the

Property of victims deceased without

honor to confirm to you my agreement to recommend to my Govern- heirs.

ment that it should take steps with a view to putting at the disposal

of the three Allied Governments, for purposes of relief, the proceeds

of property found in Sweden which belong to victims of Nazi action

who have died without heirs.

3210

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Accept, Gentlemen, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration .
EMIL SANDSTRÖM .

To the CHIEFS OF THE ALLIED DELEGATIONS

Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation

DEAR JUSTICE SANDSTRÖM :

WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946

We are glad to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today with respect to the property in Sweden of persons who have died as a result of Nazi action and left no heirs, and to hope that the proceeds of this property will be made available in the manner described in your letter.

Accept, Sir, consideration .

the renewed assurances of our most distinguished SEYMOUR J RUBIN

Chief of Delegation of United States CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Chief of French Delegation FRANCIS W MCCOMBE

Justice EMIL SANDSTRÖM

Chief of Delegation of United Kingdom

Chief of Swedish Delegation

Looted gold.

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation
WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946
DEAR JUSTICE SANDSTRÖM : In connection with the paragraph in the letters exchanged today
dealing with looted gold , we wish to confirm to you our understanding that, in view of the evidence already produced and checked , no further claim will be presented to Sweden by the Governments signatory to the Paris Reparation Agreement or their banks of issue with regard to any gold acquired by Sweden from Germany and transferred to third countries prior to June 1 , 1945.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of our most distinguished consideration .
SEYMOUR J RUBIN

Chief of Delegation of United States CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Chief of French Delegation FRANCIS W MCCOMBE

Justice EMIL SANDSTRÖM

Chief of Delegation of United Kingdom

Chief of Swedish Delegation

3211

The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations

WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946
GENTLEMEN : I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today in
the following terms :
"In connection with the paragraph in the letters exchanged today dealing with looted gold , we wish to confirm to you our understanding that, in view of the evidence already produced and checked , no further claim will be presented to Sweden by the Governments signatory to the Paris Reparation Agreement or their banks of issue with regard to any gold acquired by Sweden from Germany and transferred to third countries prior to June 1 , 1945. " I shall not fail to bring your statement to the knowledge of my Government . Accept, Gentlemen, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration .
EMIL SANDSTRÖM.

To the CHIEFS OF THE ALLIED DELEGATIONS

Chief of Swedish Delegation

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation
WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946
DEAR JUSTICE SANDSTRÖM : In connection with the understanding reached today, we raised the ChFailmebse of r ofGeCromamn-
problem of having access to the files of the German Chamber of merce in Sweden, etc. Commerce in Sweden.

3212

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
You stated that the Government of Sweden will disclose to the representatives of the Allies any information contained in the files of the German Chamber of Commerce which may be relevant to the objectives of our understanding.
In view of the fact that approximately two-thirds of the funds which were made available to the German Chamber of Commerce were furnished by the German Government or its agents, the Government of Sweden is requested sympathetically to consider the suggestion that it should accordingly treat that proportion of the net proceeds of liquidation as a German asset .
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of our most distinguished consideration .
SEYMOUR J RUBIN
Chief of Delegation of United States CHRISTIAN VALENSI
Chief of French Delegation FRANCIS W MCCOMBE
Chief of Delegation of United Kingdom Justice Emil SandströM
Chief of Swedish Delegation
The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations
WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946
GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today's
date in the following terms: "In connection with the understanding reached today, we
raised the problem of having access to the files of the German Chamber of Commerce in Sweden.
"You stated that the Government of Sweden will disclose to the representatives of the Allies any information contained in the files of the German Chamber of Commerce which may be relevant to the objectives of our understanding.
"In view of the fact that approximately two-thirds of the funds which were made available to the German Chamber of Commerce were furnished by the German Government or its agents , the Government of Sweden is requested sympathetically to consider the suggestion that it should accordingly treat that proportion of the net proceeds of liquidation as a German asset . " I confirm the statement regarding the files of the German Chamber of Commerce. Your request regarding its assets will be given full examination.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946

Accept, Gentlemen, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
EMIL SANDSTRÖM.

To the CHIEFS OF THE ALLIED DELEGATIONS

Chief of Swedish Delegation

3213

The Chief of the American Delegation to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation [1]

WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946

DEAR JUSTICE SANDSTRÖM:

In connection with the coming into effect of the understanding we

Swedish holdings in u..

have reached , I am authorized to state that the United States of

America will at the earliest possible date thereafter unblock the

Swedish holdings in the United States, according to a procedure to be

worked out by officials of that country and Swedish officials .

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration .

Very truly yours,

LumenMubin Seymour J. Rubin
Chief of Delegation of United States Justice EMIL SANDSTRÖM
Chief of Swedish Delegation
The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chief of the American Delegation []
WASHINGTON, D.C. July 18, 1946
DEAR MR. RUBIN: I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today in
the following terms : "In connection with the coming into effect of the understanding
we have reached, I am authorized to state that the United States of America will at the earliest possible date thereafter unblock the Swedish holdings in the United States, according to a procedure to be worked out by officials of that country and Swedish officials. " 1 [There is no French language text of this note.]

3214

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration .
Very truly yours,
Emislandstrom Emil Sandström
Chief of Swedish Delegation
Mr. SEYMOUR J. RUBIN Chief of Delegation of United States
The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief of the Swedish Delegation
WASHINGTON, D.C. le 18 juillet 1946.
MONSIEUR LE PRÉSIDENT, Des Délégations représentant d'une part les Gouvernements des
Etats-Unis d'Amérique , de la République Française et du Royaume Uni de Grande Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord (ci-dessous désignés comme les Alliés ) , et d'autre part le Gouvernement de la Suède, se sont réunies à Washington pour échanger leurs vues sur des questions relatives aux intérêts allemands en Suède et à l'élimination de toute possibilité de risque de voir ces intérêts utilisés au service d'une nouvelle agression allemande.
Comme suite à cet échange de vues, et pour affirmer à nouveau leur volonté de se donner un appui mutuel pour atteindre ces objectifs de sécurité économique, les Délégations suédoise et alliées sont parvenues à l'accord suivant:
1. a) Le Gouvernement suédois confirme son intention de poursuivre un programme de sécurité économique par l'élimination des intérêts allemands en Suède.
b) Le Gouvernement suédois affirme, en outre, que le Bureau des Avoirs Etrangers (Flyktkapitalbyrån) continuera , à cette fin, de rechercher, de prendre sous contrôle, de liquider, de vendre ou de transférer les biens allemands , et que la procédure, déjà officieusement établie d'accord entre le Bureau des Avoirs Etrangers et les représentations alliées à Stockholm, sera poursuivie comme précédemment, comme un moyen d'échanger des informations relativement à la découverte et la liquidation des biens allemands , et de se prêter mutuellement assistance dans la réalisation de ce programme.
2. Le produit de la liquidation des avoirs allemands en Suède laissera, après que certaines créances suédoises auront été compensées, un solde qui sera considéré comme étant de 150 millions de couronnes. Afin d'aider à prévenir le danger d'épidémies et de troubles en Allemagne, cette somme de 150 millions de couronnes sera versée à un compte spécial chez la Banque d'Etat suédoise et utilisée pour financer tels achats en Suède ou sur tout autre marché de produits essen-

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946
tiels pour l'économie allemande , dont il sera convenu entre le Gouvernement suédois et les Alliés . Dans la mesure où ces achats seront faits sur le marché suédois , les livraisons tiendront compte des limites imposées par le degré de rareté des produits disponibles.
3. Les propriétaires allemands interessés seront indemnisés en monnaie allemande en contrepartie de ceux de leurs biens qui auront été liquidés ou qui auront été l'objet d'un acte de disposition en Suède en vertu du présent accord. A cette fin , l'autorité suédoise compétente donnera aux Alliés les précisions nécessaires concernant le produit obtenu, avec indication du nom et de l'adresse du titulaire allemand du droit, et les autorités alliées en Allemagne prendront les mesures nécessaires pour enregistrer le titre des interessés allemands aux biens liquidés à recevoir la contre-partie de ceux-ci .
4. a) Fidèle à sa politique de restitution des biens pillés, le Gouvernement suédois restituera aux Alliés tout l'or qui a été acquis par la Suède et dont il sera prouvé qu'il a été pris par les Allemands dans les pays occupés , y compris l'équivalent de celui qui a été transféré à d'autres pays par la Banque d'Etat suédoise. Toute revendication de la part des gouvernements des pays occupés ou de leurs banques d'émission non présentée avant le 1er juillet 1947 sera réputée irrecevable.
b) Sur la base des renseignements actuellement produits , et sous réserve de plus amples vérifications , il est présumé que le poids de l'or que le Gouvernement suédois est tenu de restituer est de 7.155,32664 Kgs . d'or fin, correspondant à la quantité d'or provenant de la Banque de Belgique qui a été acquise par la Banque d'Etat suédoise et doit être restituée en application de ce qui précède.
c) Les Gouvernements alliés s'engagent à garantir le Gouvernement suédois contre toute réclamation qui pourra résulter de transferts effectués par la Banque d'Etat suédoise à d'autres pays d'or qui doit être restitué en vertu de la déclaration ci-dessus.
5. Les divergences sur l'interprétation et la portée des clauses ci-dessus seraient, si les quatre gouvernements n'en convenaient autrement, soumises à l'arbitrage.
6. Les représentants soussignés des Gouvernements des EtatsUnis d'Amérique, de la République Française et du Royaume Uni de Grande Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord déclarent qu'en ce qui concerne les dispositions qui précèdent ils agissent également pour le compte des gouvernements des pays suivants : Albanie, Australie , Belgique, Canada, Danemark, Egypte, Grèce, Inde, Luxembourg, Norvège, Nouvelle Zélande, Pays-Bas, Tchécoslovaquie , Union de l'Afrique du Sud, Yougoslavie, et , en tant que de besoin, pour le compte de leurs banques d'émission .
7. a) Les trois Gouvernements alliés prendront , par l'intermédiaire de leurs représentations à Stockholm, des dispositions pour qu'une délégation officielle suédoise soit admise à visiter les zones dont ils ont respectivement la charge en Allemagne, et inspecter les biens des entreprises qui sont la propriété de ressortissants suédois ou dans lesquels des ressortissants suédois ont une participation substantielle . Le droit de regard et les activités de la Délégation ne seront limités

3215

3216

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

que par les exigences générales de la sécurité et des besoins militaires, et par les lois et règlements généraux applicables à toutes personnes voyageant en Allemagne.
b) Les trois Gouvernements alliés ont l'intention d'accorder une protection sans discrimination aux biens possédés en Allemagne par des ressortissants de pays étrangers amis , y compris les biens d'entreprises dans lesquelles ces ressortissants ont une participation substantielle . Des dispositions seront prises pour qu'une compensation

équitable soit accordée en Allemagne dans le cas où de tels biens auront été l'objet de mesures d'enlèvement ou d'autres actes de disposition par les autorités alliées dans leurs zones d'occupation en Allemagne.
8. Les Alliés requerront en temps opportun l'Allemagne ou le futur gouvernement allemand de confirmer les stipulations du présent accord pour autant qu'elles concernent les biens allemands en Suède.
9. Le présent accord entrera en vigueur après approbation par le parlement suédois [ '] , ainsi que les autres lettres échangées en date de ce jour sauf dans les cas où il aura été prévu autrement./.

Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Président , l'assurance de notre haute considération .
Le Chef de la Délégation des Etats-Unis d'Amérique SEYMOUR J RUBIN

Monsieur EMIL SANDSTRÖM , Chef de la Délégation Suédoise.

Le Chef de la Délégation de la République Française CHRISTIAN VALENSI
Le Chef de la Délégation du Royaume Uni. FRANCIS W MCCOMBE

The Chiefofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations

WASHINGTON, D.C.

MESSIEURS,

le 18 juillet 1946.

Des Délégations représentant d'une part les Gouvernements des

Etats Unis d'Amérique, de la République Française et du Royaume Uni de Grande Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord (ci-dessous désignés

comme les Alliés) , et d'autre part le Gouvernement de la Suède ,

se sont réunies à Washington pour échanger leurs vues sur des questions relatives aux intérêts allemands en Suède et à l'élimination de toute

possibilité de risque de voir ces intérêts utilisés au service d'une

nouvelle agression allemande.

Comme suite à cet échange de vues , et pour affirmer à nouveau

leur volonté de se donner un appui mutuel pour atteindre ces objectifs

¹ [See footnote, p. 3193. ]

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946
de sécurité économique, les Délégations suédoise et alliées sont parvenues à l'accord suivant:
1. a) Le Gouvernement suédois confirme son intention de poursuivre un programme de sécurité économique par l'élimination des intérêts allemands en Suède.
b) Le Gouvernement suédois affirme, en outre, que le Bureau des Avoirs Etrangers (Flyktkapitalbyrån) continuera, à cette fin , de rechercher, de prendre sous contrôle, de liquider , de vendre ou de transférer les biens allemands, et que la procédure, déjà officieusement établie d'accord entre le Bureau des Avoirs Etrangers et les représentations alliées à Stockholm, sera poursuivie comme précédemment, comme un moyen d'échanger des informations relativement à la découverte et la liquidation des biens allemands, et de se prêter mutuellement assistance dans la réalisation de ce programme.
2. Le produit de la liquidation des avoirs allemands en Suède laissera, après que certaines créances suédoises auront été compensées , un solde qui sera considéré comme étant de 150 millions de couronnes . Afin d'aider à prévenir le danger d'épidémies et de troubles en Allemagne, cette somme de 150 millions de couronnes sera versée à un compte spécial chez la Banque d'Etat suédoise et utilisée pour financer tels achats-en Suède ou sur tout autre marché de produits essentiels pour l'économie allemande, dont il sera convenu entre le Gouvernement suédois et les Alliés . Dans la mesure où ces achats seront faits sur le marché suédois , les livraisons tiendront compte des limites imposées par le degré de rareté des produits disponibles .
3. Les propriétaires allemands interessés seront indemnisés en monnaie allemande en contre-partie de ceux de leurs biens qui auront été liquidés ou qui auront été l'objet d'un acte de disposition en Suède en vertu du présent accord . A cette fin, l'autorité suédoise compétente donnera aux Alliés les précisions nécessaires concernant le produit obtenu, avec indication du nom et de l'adresse du titulaire allemand du droit , et les autorités alliées en Allemagne prendront les mesures nécessaires pour enregistrer le titre des interessés allemands aux biens liquidés à recevoir la contre-partie de ceux-ci.
4. a) Fidèle à sa politique de restitution des biens pillés, le Gouvernement suédois restituera aux Alliés tout l'or qui a été acquis par la Suède et dont il sera prouvé qu'il a été pris par les Allemands dans les pays occupés , y compris l'équivalent de celui qui a été transféré à d'autres pays par la Banque d'Etat suédoise. Toute revendication de la part des gouvernements des pays occupés ou de leurs banques d'émission non présentée avant le 1er juillet 1947 sera réputée irrecevable.
b) Sur la base des renseignements actuellement produits , et sous réserve de plus amples vérifications il est présumé que le poids de l'or que le Gouvernement suédois est tenu de restituer est de 7.155,32664 Kgs. d'or fin, correspondant à la quantité d'or provenant de la Banque de Belgique qui a été acquise par la Banque d'Etat suédoise et doit être restituée en application de ce qui précède .

3217

3218

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
c) Les Gouvernements alliés s'engagent à garantir le Gouvernement suédois contre toute réclamation qui pourra résulter de transferts effectués par la Banque d'Etat suédoise à d'autres pays d'or qui doit être restitué en vertu de la déclaration ci-dessus .
5. Les divergences sur l'interprétation et la portée des clauses cidessus seraient, si les quatre gouvernements n'en convenaient autrement, soumises à l'arbitrage .
6. Les représentants soussignés des Gouvernements des EtatsUnis d'Amérique, de la République Française et du Royaume Uni de Grande Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord déclarent qu'en ce qui concerne les dispositions qui précèdent ils agissent également pour le compte des gouvernements des pays suivants: Albanie , Australie, Belgique, Canada, Danemark, Egypte, Grèce, Inde, Luxembourg, Norvège, Nouvelle Zélande , Pays-Bas, Tchécoslovaquie , Union de l'Afrique du Sud, Yougoslavie, et, en tant que de besoin, pour le compte de leurs banques d'émission .
7. a) Les trois Gouvernements alliés prendront, par l'intermédiaire de leurs représentations à Stockholm, des dispositions pour qu'une délégation officielle suédoise soit admise à visiter les zones dont ils ont respectivement la charge en Allemagne, et inspecter les biens des entreprises qui sont la propriété de ressortissants suédois ou dans lesquels des ressortissants suédois ont une participation substantielle. Le droit de regard et les activités de la Délégation ne seront limités que par les exigences générales de la sécurité et des besoins militaires, et par les lois et règlements généraux applicables à toutes personnes voyageant en Allemagne.
b) Les trois Gouvernements alliés ont l'intention d'accorder une protection sans discrimination aux biens possédés en Allemagne par des ressortissants de pays étrangers amis, y compris les biens d'entreprises dans lesquelles ces ressortissants ont une participation substantielle. Des dispositions seront prises pour qu'une compensation équitable soit accordée en Allemagne dans le cas où de tels biens auront été l'objet de mesures d'enlèvement ou d'autres actes de disposition par les autorités alliées dans leurs zones d'occupation en Allemagne .
8. Les Alliés requerront en temps opportun l'Allemagne ou le futur gouvernement allemand de confirmer les stipulations du présent accord pour autant qu'elles concernent les biens allemands en Suède .
9. Le présent accord entrera en vigueur après approbation par le parlement suédois , ainsi que les autres lettres échangées en date de ce jour sauf dans les cas où il aura été prévu autrement./.
Veuillez agréer, Messieurs , l'assurance de ma haute considération. Le Chef de la Délégation Suédoise. EMIL SANDSTRÖM .
Messieurs les CHEFS DES DELEGATIONS ALLIÉES.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946

The Chiefs of the Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation

WASHINGTON, D.C.

MONSIEUR LE PRÉSIDENT,

Le 18 juillet 1946.

Au cours des négociations qui viennent de se terminer au sujet des avoirs allemands en Suède, vous nous avez fait savoir quelles étaient les procédures suivies en Suède pour la restitution des biens qui s'y trouvent et qui ont été pillés par l'Allemagne ou par ses ressortissants . Vous avez porté à notre connaissance le fait que ces procédures , telles qu'établies par la loi suédoise du 29 juin 1945 (No. 520) constituent un moyen simple et peu coûteux par lequel les victimes des spoliations peuvent obtenir la restitution de leurs biens en Suède .

Nous tenons à vous dire que ces procédures nous donnent satisfaction et que nous faisons confiance au Gouvernement suédois pour qu'il les continue. Vous vous souviendrez à ce sujet que nous avons abordé dans nos discussions le problème de la recherche des valeurs mobilières pillées . Nous notons avec satisfaction que votre Gouverne-

ment entend examiner avec sympathie ce problème ainsi que les propositions de procédures destinées à faciliter la découverte de ces valeurs

que les Gouvernements alliés pourront ultérieurement présenter./. Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Président, l'assurance de notre haute
considération.

Le Chef de la Délégation des Etats- Unis d'Amérique SEYMOUR J RUBIN

Le Chef de la Délégation de la République Française CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Le Chef de la Délégation du Royaume Uni FRANCIS W MCCOMBE
Monsieur EMIL SANDSTRÖM Chef de la Délégation Suédoise

3219

The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations

WASHINGTON, D.C.

MESSIEURS ,

Le 18 juillet 1946.

J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception de votre lettre de ce jour ainsi conçue :

"Au cours des négociations qui viennent de se terminer au sujet des avoirs allemands en Suède , vous nous avez fait savoir quelles étaient les procédures suivies en Suède pour la restitution des biens qui s'y

trouvent et qui ont été pillés par l'Allemagne ou par ses ressortissants .

3220

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

Vous avez porté à notre connaissance le fait que ces procédures , telles qu'établies par la loi suédoise du 29 juin 1945 (No. 520) constituent un moyen simple et peu coûteux par lequel les victimes des spoliations peuvent obtenir la restitution de leurs biens en Suède.
Nous tenons à vous dire que ces procédures nous donnent satisfaction et que nous faisons confiance au Gouvernement suédois pour qu'il les continue . Vous vous souviendrez à ce sujet que nous avons abordé dans nos discussions le problème de la recherche des valeurs mobilières pillées. Nous notons avec satisfaction que votre Gouvernement entend examiner avec sympathie ce problème ainsi que les propositions de procédures destinées à faciliter la découverte de ces valeurs que les Gouvernements alliés pourront ultérieurement présenter./."

Je vous confirme que la loi susmentionnée est toujours en vigueur mais qu'elle doit expirer le 1er juillet 1947 sauf prorogation . Je vous confirme également la volonté du Gouvernement suédois de coopérer notamment à la recherche des valeurs mobilières pillées dans le cadre de la législation suédoise et dans les limites des possibilités pratiques./.
Veuillez agréer, Messieurs , l'assurance de ma haute considération.

Messieurs les CHEFS DES DÉLÉGATIONS ALLIÉES

Le Chef de la Délégation suédoise EMIL SANDSTRÖM.

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation

WASHINGTON, D.C.

MONSIEUR LE PRÉSIDENT,

Le 18 juillet 1946.

A l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus, les Déléga-

tions alliées ont souligné l'importance qu'elles attachent à voir le Gouvernement suédois mener des enquêtes pour rechercher les avoirs allemands détenus hors de Suède, au nom ou par l'intermédiaire d'institutions ou de ressortissants suédois . Les Délégations alliées ont souligné que la découverte de tels avoirs ne peut être effectuée qu'avec la coopération et l'assistance du Gouvernement suédois.

Il est en conséquence demandé au Gouvernement suédois de prendre

des mesures appropriées, de recensement et autres, pour identifier

tels avoirs allemands qui peuvent être détenus hors de Suède au nom ou par l'intermédiaire d'institutions ou de ressortissants suédois

et de porter ces renseignements à la connaissance des Gouvernements

alliés ./.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946

Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Président, l'assurance de notre haute considération .
Le Chef de la Délégation des Etats-Unis d'Amérique SEYMOUR J RUBIN

Le Chef de la Délégation de la République Française CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Monsieur EMIL SANDSTRÖM Chef de la Délégation suédoise.

Le Chef de la Délégation du Royaume Uni FRANCIS W MCCOMBE

3221

The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations

MESSIEURS ,

WASHINGTON, D.C. le 18 juillet 1946.

J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception de votre lettre de ce jour ainsi conçue :
"A l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus, les

Délégations alliées ont souligné l'importance qu'elles attachent à voir le Gouvernement suédois mener des enquêtes pour rechercher les avoirs allemands détenus hors de Suède, au nom ou par l'intermédiaire d'institutions ou de ressortissants suédois . Les Délégations

alliées ont souligné que la découverte de tels avoirs ne peut être effectuée qu'avec la coopération et l'assistance du Gouvernement suédois .

Il est en conséquence demandé au Gouvernement suédois de prendre des mesures appropriées , de recensement et autres , pour

identifier tels avoirs allemands qui peuvent être détenus hors de Suède au nom ou par l'intermédiaire d'institutions ou de ressor-

tissants suédois et de porter ces renseignements à la connaissance des Gouvernements alliés./."

Je tiens à vous faire savoir que mon Gouvernement prendra des mesures pour découvrir les biens dont il s'agit. Les renseignements concernant ces biens seront fournis de la manière prévue pour les renseignements sur les biens allemands en Suède ./.
Veuillez agréer, Messieurs , l'assurance de ma haute considération . Le Chef de la Délégation suédoise. EMIL SANDSTRÖM .
Messieurs les CHEFS DES DÉLÉGATIONS ALLIÉES.

95347°-49--PT. III- -60

3222

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation
WASHINGTON, D.C. le 18 juillet 1946.
MONSIEUR LE PRÉSIDENT, A l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus, les Déléga-
tions Alliées ont demandé que le Gouvernement suédois prenne toutes mesures appropriées pour accélérer et achever le rapatriement des Allemands dangereux actuellement en Suède.
Les Délégations Alliées ont noté avec satisfaction les mesures déjà prises sous ce rapport./.
Veuillez agréer , Monsieur le Président, l'assurance de notre haute considération.
Le Chef de la Délégation des Etats- Unis . SEYMOUR J RUBIN
Le Chef de la Délégation de la République Française. CHRISTIAN VALENSI
Le Chef de la Délégation du Royaume- Uni. FRANCIS W MCCOMBE
Monsieur EMIL SANDSTRÖM Chef de la Délégation Suédoise.

The Chiefofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations

MESSIEURS,

WASHINGTON, D.C. le 18 juillet 1946.

J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception de votre lettre de ce jour ainsi conçue:

"A l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus, les Délégations alliées ont demandé que le Gouvernement suédois prenne toutes mesures appropriées pour accélérer et achever le rapatriement des Allemands dangereux actuellement en Suède. Les Délégations alliées ont noté avec satisfaction les mesures déjà prises sous ce rapport./."

Je tiens à déclarer que l'intention du Gouvernement suédois est de rapatrier dès que possible ceux des Allemands qui, après enquête appropriée, seront jugés dangereux par le Gouvernement suédois. /.
Veuillez agréer, Messieurs, l'assurance de ma haute considération . Le Chef de la Délégation suédoise. EMIL SANDSTRÖM.
Messieurs les CHEFS DES DÉLÉGATIONS ALLIÉES.

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation

WASHINGTON, D.C.

MONSIEUR LE PRÉSIDENT,

Le 18 juillet 1946

Nous référant à l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus , nous avons discuté des avoirs en Suède des Chemins de Fer de l'Etat allemand .

Nous comprenons que le Gouvernement suédois examinera avec

faveur la possibilité de mettre à la disposition des autorités alliées compétentes le matériel roulant et autres avoirs des Chemins de Fer de l'Etat allemand trouvés en Suède./.

Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Président , l'assurance de notre haute considération.

Le Chef de la Délégation des Etats-Unis d'Amérique SEYMOUR J RUBIN

Le Chef de la Délégation de la République Française CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Le Chef de la Délégation du Royaume Uni FRANCIS W MCCOMBE
Monsieur EMIL SANDSTRÖM
Chef de la Délégation Suédoise

3223

The Chiefofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations
WASHINGTON, D.C. Le 18 juillet 1946.
MESSIEURS , J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception de votre lettre de ce jour ainsi
conçue :"Nous référant à l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus, nous avons discuté des avoirs en Suède des Chemins de Fer de l'Etat allemand . Nous comprenons que le Gouvernement suédois examinera avec faveur la possibilité de mettre à la disposition des autorités alliées compétentes le matériel roulant et autres avoirs des Chemins de Fer de l'Etat allemand trouvés en Suède"./.
Je vous confirme notre accord à ce sujet./. Veuillez agréer , Messieurs , l'assurance de ma haute considération .
Le Chef de la Délégation suédoise EMIL SANDSTRÖM.
Messieurs les CHEFS DES DÉLÉGATIONS ALLIÉES

3224

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation
WASHINGTON, D.C. Le 18 juillet 1946.
MONSIEUR LE PRÉSIDENT, A l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus, il a été
entendu qu'en attendant la conclusion d'accords multipartites auxquels les Alliés ont l'intention d'inviter le Gouvernement suédois à adhérer, et la décision du Gouvernement suédois au sujet de sa participation aux dits arrangements , aucun brevet, propriété allemande en Suède , ne sera cédé pendant trois mois après la signature de la présente lettre , ou pendant telle période plus longue qui pourra être convenue, sauf dans les cas où, après avis donné aux Alliés , il serait jugé opportun de céder des droits de brevets englobés dans la vente d'une entreprise sous contrôle allemand .
Nous avons aussi discuté des problèmes posés par les marques de fabrique et droits d'auteurs allemands . Les gouvernements alliés envisagent des discussions internationales qui pourraient également avoir lieu sur ces matières afin d'établir par accord général une politique tendant à éliminer certaines marques de fabrique allemandes et à mettre à la libre disposition de la communauté les droits d'auteurs allemands qui ont une valeur particulière . En attendant de faire des accords multipartites et en attendant la décision du Gouvernement suédois au sujet de sa participation dans de tels accords , nous espérons que le Gouvernement suédois évitera d'entreprendre toute action qui rendrait impossible son adhésion à une politique compatible avec ces arrangements./.
Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Président, l'assurance de notre haute considération.
Le Chef de la Délégation des EtatsUnis d'Amérique SEYMOUR J RUBIN
Le Chef de la Délégation de la République Française CHRISTIAN VALENSI
Le Chef de la Délégation du Royaume-Uni FRANCIS W MCCOMBE
Monsieur EMIL SANDSTRÖM Chef de la Délégation suédoise.
The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations
WASHINGTON, D.C. Le 18 juillet 1946.
MESSIEURS , J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception de votre lettre de ce jour ainsi
conçue:

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946
"A l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus, il a été entendu qu'en attendant la conclusion d'accords multipartites auxquels les Alliés ont l'intention d'inviter le Gouvernement suédois à adhérer, et la décision du Gouvernement suédois au sujet de sa participation aux dits arrangements , aucun brevet , propriété allemande en Suède , ne sera cédé pendant trois mois après la signature de la présente lettre, ou pendant telle période plus longue qui pourra être convenue, sauf dans les où, après avis donné aux Alliés , il serait jugé opportun de céder des droits de brevets englobés dans la vente d'une entreprise sous contrôle allemand. "Nous avons aussi discuté des problèmes posés par les marques de fabrique et droits d'auteurs allemands. Les gouvernements alliés envisagent des discussions internationales qui pourraient également avoir lieu sur ces matières afin d'établir par accord général une politique tendant à éliminer certaines marques de fabrique allemandes et à mettre à la libre disposition de la communauté les droits d'auteurs allemands qui ont une valeur particulière . En attendant de faire des accords multipartites et en attendant la décision du Gouvernement suédois au sujet de sa participation dans de tels accords, nous espérons que le Gouvernement suédois évitera d'entreprendre toute action qui rendrait impossible son adhésion à une politique compatible avec ces arrangements./. "
Me référant au premier paragraphe de votre lettre, je vous confirme l'accord mentionné au sujet de la disposition des brevets , propriété allemande en Suède .
Quant aux marques de fabrique et droits d'auteurs allemands , je ne manquerai pas de porter vos suggestions à l'attention de mon Gouvernement./.
Veuillez agréer, Messieurs , l'assurance de ma haute considération . Le Chef de la Délégation suédoise. EMIL SANDSTRÖM.
Messieurs les CHEFS DES DÉLÉGATIONS ALLIÉES .

3225

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief of the Swedish Delegation
WASHINGTON, D.C. Le 18 juillet 1946
MONSIEUR LE PRÉSIDENT, A l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus, les Gouverne-
ments alliés tiennent à déclarer qu'ils réservent leurs droits au sujet des avoirs officiels allemands en Suède, tels que l'immeuble de la Légation d'Allemagne, son contenu, ou autres biens analogues./.

3226

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Président, l'assurance de notre haute considération .
Le Chef de la Délégation des EtatsUnis d'Amérique. SEYMOUR J RUBIN
Le Chef de la Délégation de la République Française. CHRISTIAN VALENSI
Le Chef de la Délégation du Royaume Uni. FRANCIS W MCCOMBE
Monsieur EMIL SANDSTRÖM Chef de la Délégation Suédoise.

The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations

WASHINGTON, D.C.

MESSIEURS ,

Le 18 juillet 1946

J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception de votre lettre de ce jour ainsi

conçue : "A l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus, les

Gouvernements alliés tiennent à déclarer qu'ils réservent leurs droits au sujet des avoirs officiels allemands en Suède , tels que l'immeuble de la Légation d'Allemagne , son contenu , ou autres biens analogues./."

Je ne manquerai pas de porter votre déclaration à la connaissance de mon Gouvernement./.

Veuillez agréer, Messieurs, l'assurance de ma haute considération.

Messieurs les CHEFS

Le Chef de la Délégation Suédoise. EMIL SANDSTRÖM.

DES DÉLÉGATIONS ALLIÉES.

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation

WASHINGTON, D.C.

MONSIEUR LE PRÉSIDENT,

Le 18 juillet 1946

Nous référant à l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus , nous avons

l'honneur de déclarer que les Gouvernements alliés , sans attendre la

conclusion des présentes négociations, mais pour tenir compte de

l'accord réalisé au sujet de la liquidation des intérêts allemands , ont

supprimé les listes noires pour autant qu'elles concernent, en particulier, la Suède ou des ressortissants suédois connus comme tels . Les

Gouvernements alliés n'ont pas l'intention de continuer les listes noires sous une forme officieuse./.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946

Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Président, l'assurance de notre haute considération.

Le Chef de la Délégation des Etats-Unis d'Amérique. SEYMOUR J RUBIN

Le Chef de la Délégation de la République Française. CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Monsieur EMIL SANDSTRÖM , Chef de la Délégation Suédoise.

Le Chef de la Délégation du Royaume Uni. FRANCIS W MCCOMBE

3227

The Chiefofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations
WASHINGTON, D.C. Le 18 juillet 1946
MESSIEURS , J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception de votre lettre de ce jour ainsi
conçue : "Nous référant à l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus , nous
avons l'honneur de déclarer que les Gouvernements alliés, sans attendre la conclusion des présentes négociations, mais pour tenir compte de l'accord réalisé au sujet de la liquidation des intérêts allemands, ont supprimé les listes noires pour autant qu'elles concernent , en particulier , la Suède ou des ressortissants suédois connus comme tels. Les Gouvernements alliés n'ont pas l'intention de continuer les listes noires sous une forme officieuse./."
Je suis heureux de prendre note de votre déclaration et je ne manquerai pas de la porter à l'attention de mon Gouvernement./.
Veuillez agréer, Messieurs, l'assurance de ma haute considération. Le Chef de la Délégation Suédoise. EMIL SANDSTRÖM.
Messieurs les CHEFS DES DÉLÉGATIONS ALLIÉES ,

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief of the Swedish Delegation
WASHINGTON , D.C. le 18 juillet 1946.
MONSIEUR LE PRÉSIDENT, A l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus, a été
discutée la question de la représentation suédoise en Allemagne . Nous sommes en mesure de vous confirmer que les Autorités compe-
tentes des Gouvernements allies ont mis cette question a l'étude et

3228

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
que l'on peut espérer que des arrangements d'ensemble satisfaisants , compatibles avec les exigences de la situation actuelle en Allemagne , pourront être mis sur pied en temps utile./.
Veuillez agréer , Monsieur le Président, l'assurance de notre haute considération.
Le Chef de la Délégation des Etats- Unis d'Amérique SEYMOUR J RUBIN
Le Chef de la Délégation de la République Française CHRISTIAN VALENSI
Le Chef de la Délégation du Royaume-Uni FRANCIS W MCCOMBE
Monsieur EMIL SANDSTROM , Chef de la Délégation suédoise.
The Chiefofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations
WASHINGTON, D.C. le 18 juillet 1946.
MESSIEURS , J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception de votre lettre de ce jour ainsi
conçue : "A l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus , a été
discutée la question de la représentation suédoise en Allemagne. Nous sommes en mesure de vous confirmer que les Autorités compé-
tentes des Gouvernements alliés ont mis cette question a l'étude et que l'on peut espérer que des arrangements d'ensemble satisfaisants , compatibles avec les exigences de la situation actuelle en Allemagne, pourront être mis sur pied en temps utile./."
Je suis heureux de prendre note de votre déclaration et je ne manquerai pas de la porter à l'attention de mon Gouvernement./.
Veuillez agréer , Messieurs, l'assurance de ma haute considération.

Emnislandstrom Emil Sandström
Chef de la Délégation de Suède
Messieurs les CHEFS DES DÉLÉGATIONS ALLIÉES.

The Chiefofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations

MESSIEURS ,

WASHINGTON, D.C. Le 18 juillet 1946.

A l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus , j'ai l'honneur de déclarer, au nom de mon Gouvernement, que, dans l'élimination des

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946
intérêts allemands en Suède, la liquidation, la vente ou le transfert de biens allemands , et pour l'agrément des acquéreurs de ces biens, les principes et les pratiques appliqués et qui continueront d'être observés sont, entre autres , les suivants :
1/ Compte sera dûment tenu des nécessités de la sécurité mondiale, et notamment de la nécessité d'éliminer complètement toute forme de contrôle allemand et d'influence économique allemande, ainsi que des intérêts de l'économie suédoise, et de l'intérêt d'obtenir le plus haut prix possible.
2/ Les ventes seront faites à des personnes autres que des ressortissants allemands et seront, dans la mesure du possible, publiques , sauf dans les cas où les avoirs seront acquis par le Gouvernement suédois .
3/ Lors de toute vente ou liquidation, les intérêts des ressortissants étrangers autres qu'allemands seront, qu'il s'agisse d'intérêts directs ou indirects, protégés dans la même mesure et de la même manière que ceux des ressortissants suédois , sous condition de réciprocité dans le pays de ces étrangers.
4/ Le Bureau des Avoirs Etrangers s'enquerra de la bonne foi des transactions qui sont à l'origine de sûretés et de créances portant sur des biens allemands , et notamment de celles qui sont intervenues immédiatement avant le début des hostilités ou depuis lors.
5/ L'expression "biens allemands" telle qu'elle est employée dans l'accord comprend tous biens possédés ou contrôlés, directement ou indirectement, par des personnes morales ou physiques de nationalité allemande en Allemagne, ou devant être rapatriées en Allemagne, autres que celles dont le cas mérite un traitement exceptionnel./.
Veuillez agréer, Messieurs, l'assurance de ma haute considération . Le Chef de la Délégation suédoise EMIL SANDSTRÖM.
Messieurs les CHEFS DES DÉLÉGATIONS ALLIÉES

3229

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation

MONSIEUR LE PRÉSIDENT,

WASHINGTON, D.C. Le 18 juillet 1946.

Nous avons l'honneur d'accuser réception de votre lettre de ce jour ainsi conçue :

"A l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus, j'ai l'honneur de déclarer, au nom de mon Gouvernement, que, dans l'élimination des intérêts allemands en Suède, la liquidation, la vente ou le transfert de biens allemands , et pour l'agrément des acquéreurs de ces biens , les principes et les pratiques appliqués et qui continueront d'être observés sont, entre autres , les suivants :

3230

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
1/ Compte sera dûment tenu des nécessités de la sécurité mondiale, et notamment de la nécessité d'éliminer complètement toute forme de contrôle allemand et d'influence économique allemande, ainsi que des intérêts de l'économie suédoise, et de l'intérêt d'obtenir le plus haut prix possible.
2 / Les ventes seront faites à des personnes autres que des ressortissants allemands et seront, dans la mesure du possible, publiques, sauf dans les cas où les avoirs seront acquis par le Gouvernement suédois .
3/ Lors de toute vente ou liquidation, les intérêts des ressortissants étrangers autres qu'allemands seront, qu'il s'agisse d'intérêts directs ou indirects, protégés dans la même mesure et de la même manière que ceux des ressortissants suédois , sous condition de réciprocité dans le pays de ces étrangers.
4/ Le Bureau des Avoirs Etrangers s'enquerra de la bonne foi des transactions qui sont à l'origine de sûretés et de créances portant sur des biens allemands , et notamment de celles qui sont intervenues immédiatement avant le début des hostilités ou depuis lors .
5/ L'expression "biens allemands" telle qu'elle est employée dans l'accord comprend tous biens possédés ou contrôlés , directement ou indirectement, par des personnes morales ou physiques de nationalité allemande en Allemagne, ou devant être rapatriées en Allemagne , autres que celles dont le cas mérite un traitement exceptionnel./."
Nous sommes heureux de prendre note des principes que vous avez énoncés ./.
Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Président, l'assurance de notre haute considération .
Le Chef de la Délégation des Etats- Unis d'Amérique SEYMOUR J RUBIN
Le Chef de la Délégation de la République Française CHRISTIAN VALENSI
Le Chef de la Délégation du Royaume Uni FRANCIS W MCCOMBE
Monsieur EMIL SANDSTRÖM Chef de la Délégation suédoise

The Chiefofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations

WASHINGTON, D.C.

MESSIEURS ,

Le 18 juillet 1946.

Je suis autorisé à faire, au nom de mon Gouvernement , la déclaration suivante.

Le Gouvernement suédois, fidèle à sa politique de participation à l'oeuvre de reconstruction et de restauration, a jugé convenable, à

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946
l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus , d'apporter les contributions suivantes:
1 ) Le Gouvernement suédois mettra à la disposition du Comité Intergouvernemental des Réfugiés une somme de cinquante millions de couronnes qui sera employée au relèvement et au réétablissement des victimes non rapatriables de l'action allemande .
Vous pouvez être assurés que mon Gouvernement, bien qu'il réserve sa décision sur la façon dont les fonds seront rendus disponibles , fera tous ses efforts pour que les fonds soient rendus disponibles aussitôt que possible et de la manière la plus apte à atteindre les objectifs du Comité.
2) Le Gouvernement suédois affectera en outre une somme de soixante-quinze millions de couronnes pour la répartir au bénéfice de pays signataires de l'Accord de Paris sur les réparations . Les décisions relatives à la répartition seront prises après échanges de vues avec les Alliés agissant au nom de ces pays, et en examinant leurs vues avec faveur.
Des consultations auront également lieu entre le Gouvernement suédois et chacun des pays qui pourront recevoir une part quelconque de cette somme, en ce qui concerne la mesure dans laquelle, ou la manière suivant laquelle, ce pays bénéficiera de sa part , soit par la remise, la réduction ou l'augmentation d'un crédit présent, ou l'octroi d'un nouveau crédit accordé par la Suède à ce pays , soit autrement, suivant ce qui sera convenu entre ce pays et la Suède./.
Veuillez agréer, Messieurs, l'assurance de ma haute considération. Le Chef de la Délégation suédoise. EMIL SANDSTRÖM .
Messieurs les CHEFS DES DÉLÉGATIONS ALLIÉES .

3231

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief of the Swedish Delegation

WASHINGTON, D.C.

MONSIEUR LE PRÉSIDENT,

Le 18 juillet 1946.

Nous avons l'honneur d'accuser réception de votre lettre de ce jour ainsi conçue:

"Je suis autorisé à faire, au nom de mon Gouvernement, la déclaration suivante.

Le Gouvernement suédois , fidèle à sa politique de participation à l'oeuvre de reconstruction et de restauration, a jugé convenable à l'occasion de l'accord a auquel nous sommes parvenus, d'apporter les contributions suivantes:

I) Le Gouvernement suédois mettra à la disposition du Comité Intergouvernemental des Réfugiés une somme de cinquante millions de couronnes qui sera employée au relèvement et au réétablissement des victimes non rapatriables de l'action allemande .

3232

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STat.
Vous pouvez être assurés que mon Gouvernement, bien qu'il réserve sa décision sur la façon dont les fonds seront rendus disponibles , fera tous ses efforts pour que les fonds soient rendus disponibles aussitôt que possible et de la manière la plus apte à atteindre les objectifs du Comité.
2 ) Le Gouvernement suédois affectera en outre une somme de soixante-quinze millions de couronnes pour la répartir au bénéfice de pays signataires de l'Accord de Paris sur les réparations. Les décisions relatives à la répartition seront prises après échanges de vues avec les Alliés agissant au nom de ces pays, et en examinant leurs vues avec faveur.
Des consultations auront également lieu entre le Gouvernement suédois et chacun des pays qui pourront recevoir une part quelconque de cette somme, en ce qui concerne la mesure dans laquelle , ou la manière suivant laquelle, ce pays bénéficiera de sa part, soit par la remise, la réduction ou l'augmentation d'un crédit présent, ou l'octroi d'un nouveau crédit, accordé par la Suède à ce pays , soit autrement, suivant ce qui sera convenu entre ce pays et la Suède ./." Nous sommes heureux, au nom du Comité Intergouvernemental des Réfugiés et au nom des pays signataires de l'Accord de Paris sur les réparations , de prendre note des contributions à apporter par le Gouvernement suédois . Nous ne manquerons pas de porter à leur attention vos déclarations à ce sujet./. Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Président, l'assurance de notre haute considération .
Le Chef de la Délégation des Etats- Unis d'Amérique. SEYMOUR J RUBIN
Le Chefde la Délégation de la République Française CHRISTIAN VALENSI
Le Chefde la Délégation du Royaume Uni FRANCIS W MCCOMBE
Monsieur EMIL SANDSTRÖM Chef de la Délégation suédoise.

The Chiefofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations

MESSIEURS ,

WASHINGTON, D.C. le 18 juillet 1946.

Au sujet des paragraphes 2 et 3 de l'accord concernant les avoirs allemands en Suède contenu dans les lettres échangées ce jour, je tiens à rappeler que le Gouvernement suédois a été en mesure de prendre l'engagement contenu dans le paragraphe 2 du fait que les produits de la liquidation constituent un avoir allemand et peuvent être utilisés pour le paiement de livraisons de produits pour l'Allemagne conformément à la législation suédoise en matière de clearing, pourvu que compensation soit assurée au titulaire du droit.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946

Il est entendu que le Gouvernement russe n'a pas de titre à faire valoir pour l'emploi des avoirs allemands en Suède au bénéfice de la

zone russe./. Veuillez agréer, Messieurs, l'assurance de ma haute considération .

Messieurs les CHEFS DES DÉLÉGATIONS ALLIÉES.

Le Chef de la Délégation suédoise EMIL SANDSTRÖM.

3233

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation WASHINGTON, D.C. le 18 juillet 1946.
MONSIEUR LE PRÉSIDENT, Nous avons l'honneur d'accuser réception de votre lettre de ce
jour ainsi conçue:
"Au sujet des paragraphes 2 et 3 de l'accord concernant les avoirs allemands en Suède contenu dans les lettres échangées ce jour, je tiens à rappeler que le Gouvernement suédois a été en mesure de prendre l'engagement contenu dans le paragraphe 2 du fait que les produits de la liquidation constituent un avoir allemand et peuvent être utilisés pour le paiement de livraisons de produits pour l'Allemagne conformément à la législation suédoise en matière de clearing, pourvu que compensation soit assurée au titulaire du droit .
Il est entendu que le Gouvernement russe n'a pas de titre à faire valoir pour l'emploi des avoirs allemands en Suède au bénéfice de la zone russe./."
Nous comprenons que votre déclaration n'entend pas affecter les arrangements contenus dans les paragraphes 2 et 3 de notre accord relatif à la disposition des avoirs allemands en Suède et à l'indemnisation des proprietaires allemands.
Nous pouvons confirmer que par application du protocole de Potsdam l'U. R. S. S. a renoncé à tous titres sur les avoirs allemands en Suède, pour elle-même ou pour la zone allemande dont elle a la charge./.
Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Président, l'assurance de notre haute considération .
Le Chef de la Délégation des Etats-Unis d'Amérique SEYMOUR J RUBIN

Le Chef de la Délégation de la République Française CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Monsieur EMIL SANDSTRÖM, Chef de la Délégation suédoise.

Le Chef de la Délégation du Royaume-Uni. FRANCIS W MCCOMBE

3234

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations
WASHINGTON, D. C. Le 18 juillet 1946
MESSIEURS , A l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus , j'ai l'honneur
de vous confirmer que je suis d'accord pour recommander à mon Gouvernement de prendre des mesures en vue de mettre à la disposition des trois Gouvernements alliés, à des fins de secours , le produit de la réalisation des biens trouvés en Suède qui appartiennent aux victimes de l'action nazie décédées sans héritier./.
Veuillez agréer , Messieurs , l'assurance de ma haute considération. Le Chef de la Délégation suédoise EMIL SANDSTRÖM.
Messieurs les CHEFS DES DÉLÉGATIONS ALLIÉES .

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation
WASHINGTON, D. C. Le 18 Juillet 1946
MONSIEUR LE PRÉSIDENT, Nous sommes heureux d'accuser réception de votre lettre de ce jour
concernant les biens en Suède de personnes qui sont mortes à la suite de l'action nazie sans laisser d'héritiers et de pouvoir espérer que le produit de la réalisation de ces biens sera rendu disponible ainsi qu'il est indiqué dans votre lettre./.
Veuillez agréer , Monsieur le Président , l'assurance de notre haute considération .
Le Chef de la Délégation des Etats- Unis d'Amérique SEYMOUR J RUBIN
Le Chef de la Délégation de la République Française CHRISTIAN VALENSI
Le Chefde la Délégation du Royaume- Uni FRANCIS W MCCOMBE
Monsieur EMIL SANDSTRÖM Chef de la Délégation suédoise.

The Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations to the Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation

WASHINGTON, D.C.

MONSIEUR LE PRÉSIDENT,

Le 18 juillet 1946.

Nous référant au paragraphe des lettres échangées ce jour qui concerne l'or pillé, nous tenons à vous confirmer que, en raison des

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946
renseignements déjà produits et vérifiés, aucune réclamation ultérieure ne sera présentée à la Suède par les Gouvernements signataires de l'Accord de Paris sur les Réparations , ou par leurs banques d'émission , au sujet d'or acheté par la Suède à l'Allemagne et transféré à des pays tiers avant le 1er juin 1945./.
Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Président , l'assurance de notre haute considération.
Le Chef de la Délégation des Etats- Unis d'Amérique SEYMOUR J RUBIN
Le Chef de la Délégation de la République Française CHRISTIAN VALENSI
Le Chef de la Délégation du Royaume Uni FRANCIS W MCCOMBE
Monsieur EMIL SANDSTRÖM Chef de la Délégation suédoise

3235

The Chiefofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs of the Allied Delegations
WASHINGTON, D. C. Le 18 juillet 1946.
MESSIEURS , J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception de votre lettre de ce jour ainsi
conçue:
"Nous référant au paragraphe des lettres échangées ce jour qui concerne l'or pillé, nous tenons à vous confirmer que, en raison des renseignements déjà produits et vérifiés, aucune réclamation ultérieure ne sera présentée à la Suède par les Gouvernements signataires de l'Accord de Paris sur les Réparations, ou par leurs banques d'émission, au sujet d'or acheté par la Suède à l'Allemagne et transféré à des pays tiers avant le 1er juin 1945./."
Je ne manquerai pas de porter votre déclaration à la connaissance de mon Gouvernement./.
Veuillez agréer, Messieurs , l'assurance de ma haute considération. Le Chef de la Délégation suédoise EMIL SANDSTRÖM .
Messieurs les CHEFS DES DÉLÉGATIONS ALLIÉES

3236

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
The Chiefs of the Allied Delegations to the Chief of the Swedish Delegation
WASHINGTON, D.C. le 18 juillet 1946.
MONSIEUR LE PRÉSIDENT , A l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus, nous avons
soulevé la question de l'accès aux archives de la Chambre de Commerce allemande en Suède .
Vous avez déclaré que le Gouvernement suédois communiquera aux représentants alliés toute information contenue dans les archives de la Chambre de Commerce allemande qui serait d'importance pour les fins de notre accord.
Etant donné que les deux tiers environ des avoirs dont a disposé la Chambre de Commerce allemande ont été fournis par le Gouvernement allemand ou ses agents , le Gouvernement suédois est prié de bien vouloir traiter comme un avoir allemand la même proportion du produit net de la liquidation de ces avoirs./.
Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Président, l'assurance de notre haute considération .
Le Chef de la Délégation des Etats-Unis d'Amérique SEYMOUR J RUBIN
Le Chef de la Délégation de la République Française CHRISTIAN VALENSI
Le Chef de la Délégation du Royaume- Uni FRANCIS W MCCOMBE
Monsieur EMIL SANDSTRÖM, Chef de la Délégation suédoise.
The Chief ofthe Swedish Delegation to the Chiefs ofthe Allied Delegations
WASHINGTON, D.C. le 18 juillet 1946.
MESSIEURS , J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception de votre lettre de ce jour ainsi
conçue : "A l'occasion de l'accord auquel nous sommes parvenus , nous
avons soulevé la question de l'accès aux archives de la Chambre de Commerce allemande en Suède.
Vous avez déclaré que le Gouvernement suédois communiquera aux représentants alliés toute information contenue dans les archives de la Chambre de Commerce allemande qui serait d'importance pour les fins de notre accord.
Etant donné que les deux tiers environ des avoirs dont a disposé la Chambre de Commerce allemande ont été fournis par le Gouvernement

61 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-GERMAN PROPERTY IN SWEDEN-JULY 18, 1946
allemand ou ses agents, le Gouvernement suédois est prié de bien vouloir traiter comme un avoir allemand la même proportion du produit net de la liquidation de ces avoirs./."
Je vous confirme la déclaration concernant les archives de la Chambre de Commerce allemande . Votre demande concernant ses avoirs recevra toute notre attention./.
Veuillez agréer, Messieurs , l'assurance de ma haute considération.

3237

SuitSantfrom Emil Sandstrom
Chef de la Délégation suédoise
Messieurs les CHEFS DES DÉLÉGATION ALLIÉES .

95347-49-PT. III- -61

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- RESTITUTION OF PROPERTY-OCT. 10, 1947

3239

Protocol between the United States of America, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and Italy respecting the transfer to the Italian Government of gold captured at Fortezza. Signed at London October 10, 1947 ; entered into force September 15, 1947.
PROTOCOL

October 10, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1658]

The Governments of the United States of America and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the one hand, and the Government of Italy on the other have agreed as follows :-

(1 ) The gold which was captured at Fortezza by the Allied Forces

in Italy from the German Forces, which was still in the custody of

officials of the Bank of Italy at the time of capture, and which has since that time remained in the custody of the appropriate agency

of the Allied Military Authorities , shall be turned over to the Italian

Government now that the Treaty of Peace signed in Paris on 10th February, 1947 , has entered into force.
(2) The Italian Government will immediately appoint representatives to discuss with the Allied Military Authorities the necessary

61 Stat . , p. 1245.

Pt. 2,

details of transferring this gold from the custody of the Allied Military Authorities to the custody of the Italian Government.
(3) The present Protocol shall be deemed to have come into force on the day of the coming into force of the Treaty of Peace.

Entry into force. 61 Stat . , Pt . 2 , p. 1245.

In faith whereof the undersigned Plenipotentiaries have signed the present Protocol.
Done in London in triplicate this 10th day of October, 1947, in the English and Italian languages , both texts being equally authentic .

Authentic texts.

For the Government of the United States of America: W. J. GALLMAN

For the Government ofthe United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: ERNEST BEVIN

For the Government of Italy: B. MIGONE

3240

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

PROTOCOLLO
I GOVERNI degli Stati Uniti d'America, del Regno Unito di Gran Bretagna e Irlanda del Nord da una parte e il Governo Italiano dall'altra parte hanno convenuto quanto segue :
(1º) L'oro catturato a Fortezza dalle Forze Alleate in Italia alle Forze Armate tedesche, che era ancora in consegna a funzionari della Banca d'Italia all'epoca della cattura e che da quella data è rimasto in consegna ai competenti uffici delle Autorità Militari Alleate , sarà consegnato al Governo Italiano ora che è entrato in vigore il Trattato di Pace firmato a Parigi il 10 febbraio 1947.
(2º) Il Governo Italiano nominerà immediatamente i suoi rappresentanti per discutere con le Autorità Militari Alleate i dettagli necessari per il trasferimento dell'oro in questione dalle Autorità Militari Alleate al Governo Italiano .
(3°) Il presente protocollo si considererà entrato in vigore alla data dell'entrata in vigore del Trattato di Pace.
In fede di che i sottoscritti Plenipotenziari hanno firmato il presente protocollo .
Fatto a Londra in triplice esemplare addì 10 ottobre 1947 in lingua inglese e italiana, ambo i testi essendo autentici.
Per il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America: W. J. GALLMAN
Per il Governo del Regno Unito di Gran Bretagna e Irlanda del Nord: ERNEST BEVIN
Per il Governo Italiano: B. MIGONE

61 STAT. ] AUSTRIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-OCT. 8, 1947

3241

Interim agreement between the United States of America and Austria respecting air transport services. Signed at Vienna October 8, 1947; entered into force October 8, 1947.

October 8, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1659]

INTERIM AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE AUSTRIAN FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.

Having in mind , on the one hand, the Moscow Declaration ['] regarding Austria issued by the Moscow Conference of 19-30 October, 1943 , to which the Governments of the United States of America , the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics were parties and , on the other hand, the authority granted to the Austrian Federal Government to conclude international agreements subject to the provisions of the "Control Agreement for Austria", [2] effective 28 June 1946 ;
Having in mind further the resolution recommending a standard form of agreement for provisional air routes and services , included in the Final Act of the International Civil Aviation Conference signed at Chicago on 7 December 1944 , [3] and the desirability of mutually stimulating and promoting the sound economic development of air transportation between the Republic of Austria and the United States of America ;
The two Governments parties to this arrangement agree that the development of regular air transport services between their respective territories shall be governed by the following provisions:

ARTICLE I

The Contracting Parties grant the rights specified in the Annex hereto necessary for establishment of the regular international civil air routes and services therein described , whether such services be inaugurated immediately, or at a later date due to: (a) the option of the Contracting Parties to whom the rights are granted ; or (b ) limitations imposed through the regulatory powers of the Allied Council as established by the " Control Agreement for Austria" which was effective on 28 June 1946 as may be amended ; or (c) by any later control agreements which may be reached between the Occupying Powers .

Post, p. 3246.

ARTICLE II

Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, each of the air services

Inauguration of services.

so described shall be placed in operation as soon as the Contracting

¹ [Department of State Bulletin, Nov. 6, 1943, p. 310. ] 2 [ Ibid., July 28, 1946, p. 175. ]
[International Civil Aviation Conference, Chicago, Illinois, November 1 to December 7, 1944, Final Act and Related Documents, Department of State publication 2282. ]

3242

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Party to whom the rights have been granted by Article I to designate an airline or airlines for the route concerned has authorized an airline for such route, and the Contracting Party granting the right shall, subject to Article VI hereof, be bound to give the appropriate operating permission to the airline or airlines concerned ; provided that the airlines so designated may be required to qualify before the competent aeronautical authorities of the Contracting Party granting the rights under the laws and regulations normally applied by these authorities before being permitted to engage in the operations contemplated by this Agreement . In areas of hostilities or of military occupation , or in areas affected thereby, such operations shall be subject to the approval of the competent military authorities.
ARTICLE III

In order to prevent discriminatory practices and assure equality of treatment, it is agreed that:

merRciigahltaitropourstes. com- (a) Each of the Contracting Parties grants to the designated airline

Post, p. 3246.

or airlines of the other Contracting Party the right to use its commercial airports at the points designated in the Annex hereto , on

an equal and non-discriminatory basis with national or foreign

Charges.

airlines engaged in international operations. (b) Each of the Contracting Parties may impose or permit to be im-

posed just and reasonable charges for the use of public airports

and other facilities under its control. Each of the Contracting

Parties agrees, however, that these charges shall not be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services. (c) Fuel, lubricating oils and spare parts introduced into the territory of one Contracting Party by the other Contracting Party or its nationals, and intended solely for use by aircraft of the airlines of such Contracting Party shall, with respect to the imposition of customs duties , inspection fees or other national duties or charges by the Contracting Party whose territory is entered , be accorded the same treatment as that applying to national airlines and to airlines of the most-favored-nation .

(d) The fuel, lubricating oils , spare parts , regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board civil aircraft of the airlines of one

Post, p. 3246.

Contracting Party authorized to operate the routes and services described in the Annex shall, upon arriving in or leaving the territory of the other Contracting Party, be exempt from customs, inspection fees or similar duties or charges , even though such supplies be used or consumed by such aircraft on flights in that territory.
ARTICLE IV

Certificates of airworthiness, etc.
Post, p. 3246.

Certificates of airworthiness , certificates of competency and licenses issued or rendered valid by one Contracting Party shall be recognized as valid by the other Contracting Party for the purpose of operating the routes and services described in the Annex. Each Contracting

61 STAT. ] AUSTRIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- OCT. 8, 1947

3243

Party reserves the right, however, to refuse to recognize , for the purpose of flight above its own territory , certificates of competency and licenses granted to its own nationals by another state.

ARTICLE V

(a) The laws and regulations of one Contracting Party relating to

Laws and regulations.

the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged

in international air navigation , or to the operation and navigation of

such aircraft while within its territory , shall be applied to the aircraft

of the other Contracting Party, and shall be complied with by such

aircraft upon entering or departing from or while within the territory

of the first Party.

(b) The laws and regulations of one Contracting Party as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers , crew, or cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance, immigration, passports, customs , and quarantine shall be complied with by or on behalf of such passengers, crew or cargo of the other Contracting Party upon entrance into or departure from , or while within the territory of the first Party.

ARTICLE VI

Notwithstanding the provisions of Article XI of this Agreement,

Withholding or revocation of rights.

each Contracting Party reserves the right to withhold or revoke the exercise of the rights specified in the Annex to this Agreement by an

Post, p. 3246.

airline designated by the other Contracting Party in the event that it is not satisfied that substantial ownership and effective control of

such airline are vested in nationals of the other Contracting Party,

or in case of failure by such airline or the government designating

such airline, to comply with the laws and regulations referred to in Article V hereof, or otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder,

or to fulfil the conditions under which the rights are granted in accord-

ance with this Agreement and its Annex.

ARTICLE VII

This Agreement and all contracts connected therewith shall be registered with the International Civil Aviation Organization.

Registration.

ARTICLE VIII

In the event either of the Contracting Parties considers it desirable to modify the routes or conditions set forth in the attached Annex , it may request consultation between the competent authorities of both Contracting Parties , such consultation to begin within a period of sixty days from the date of the request . When these authorities mutually agree on new or revised conditions affecting the Annex, their recommendations on the matter will come into effect after they have been confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes.

Consultation. Post, p. 3246.

3244
Disputes. Post, p. 3246.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
ARTICLE IX
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or its Annex, any dispute between the Contracting Parties relative to the interpretation or application of this Agreement or its Annex, which cannot be settled through consultation , shall be submitted for an advisory report to a tribunal of three arbitrators , one to be named by each Contracting Party, and the third to be agreed upon by the two arbitrators so chosen, provided that such third arbitrator shall not be a national of either Contracting Party. Each of the Contracting Parties shall designate an arbitrator within two months of the date of delivery by either Party to the other Party of a diplomatic note requesting arbitration of a dispute ; and the third arbitrator shall be agreed upon within one month after such period of two months. If the third arbitrator is not agreed upon within the time limitation indicated , the vacancy thereby created shall be filled by the appointment of a person, designated by the President of the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization, from a panel of arbitral personnel maintained in accordance with the practice of the International Civil Aviation Organization. The executive authorities of the Contracting Parties will use their best efforts under the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in any such advisory report. A moiety of the expenses of the arbitral tribunal shall be borne by each party.

Entry into force. Post, p. 3246.

ARTICLE X
This Agreement, including the provisions of the Annex thereto, will come into force on the day it is signed .

ARTICLE XI

Notice of intention to terminate agree-

Either Contracting Party may at any time give notice to the other

ment.

of its intention to terminate this Agreement . Such notice shall be

simultaneously communicated to the International Civil Aviation

Organization. If such notice is given, this Agreement shall terminate

one year after the date of receipt of such notice by the Contracting

Party, unless such notice is, by mutual assent of both Contracting

Parties, withdrawn. In the absence of acknowledgment by the other

Contracting Party specifying an earlier date of receipt , notice shall

be deemed to have been received 14 days after the receipt of the

notice by the International Civil Aviation Organization.

Duration. Post, p. 3246.

ARTICLE XII
This Agreement, including the provisions of the Annex thereto, shall, subject to the provisions for termination of the Agreement contained in Article XI above, remain in force from its effective date until such time as it is replaced by a permanent air transport agreement which may be negotiated between the Contracting Parties subsequent to the entry into force of a treaty between the Allied Powers and Austria.

61 STAT.] AUSTRIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- OCT. 8, 1947
In witness whereof the undersigned , being duly authorized by their respective Governments, have signed this Agreement in duplicate, in the English and German languages, each of which shall be of equal authenticity .

3245 Authentic languages.

braz

  ade

For the Government of the United States of America :
4. Exhener JolinJgOHN G. ERHARDT , Envoy Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary .

Jos

890

aid oh

a bou

edavi doming or nosdemob

stamislu

00 9

to Trad

For the Austrian Federal Government:
fiüber DR . KARL GRÜBER , Federal Minister for Foreign
Affairs .
Vienna, Austria October 8, 1947

3246

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
ANNEX OF INTERIM AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE AUSTRIAN FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
SECTION I

Equal opportunity foroperation ofroutes.

It is agreed between the Contracting Parties : A. That the designated airlines of the two Contracting Parties operating on the routes described in this Annex shall enjoy fair and

Capacity.

equal opportunity for the operation of the said routes. B. That the air transport capacity offered by the designated airlines
of both countries shall bear a close relationship to traffic requirements .

C. That in the operation of common sections of trunk routes ,

described in the present Annex, the designated airlines of the Contract-

ing Parties shall take into account their reciprocal interests so as not

to affect unduly their respective services.

D. That the services provided by a designated airline under this

Agreement and its Annex shall retain as their primary objective the provision of capacity adequate to the traffic demands between the

Right to etc.

embark,

country of which such airline is a national and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic.
E. That the right to embark and to disembark at points in the territory of the other country international traffic destined for or

coming from third countries at a point or points specified in this

Annex, shall be applied in accordance with the general principles of

orderly development to which both Governments subscribe and shall

be subject to the general principle that capacity shall be related :

1. To traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination ;

Consultation.

2. To the requirements of through airline operation ; and 3. To the traffic requirements of the area through which the desig-
nated airline passes after taking account of local and regional services .
F. That the appropriate aeronautical authorities of each of the Contracting Parties will consult from time to time, or at the request of one of the Parties, to determine the extent to which the principles set forth in paragraphs A to E inclusive of this section are being followed by the airlines designated by the Contracting Parties . When these authorities agree on further measures necessary to give these principles practical application, the executive authorities of each of the Contracting Parties will use their best efforts under the powers available to them to put such measures into effect .

SECTION II

U. S. rights of transit and stop in Aus-

A. Airlines of the United States of America authorized under the

tria.

present Agreement are accorded rights of transit and non-traffic stop

in Austrian territory, as well as the right to pick up and discharge

61 STAT. ] AUSTRIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-OCT. 8, 1947

3247

international traffic in passengers, cargo and mail at Vienna (or such additional Austrian customs airports as may be agreed upon) on the following route in both directions:

The United States, via intermediate points , to Austria and beyond .

On the above intercontinental route the airline or airlines designated

to operate such route may operate non -stop flights between any of the

points on such intercontinental route omitting stops at one or more of

the other points on such route.

B.

Airlines of the Republic of Austria authorized under the present

Austrian

of

ttrraunssitt andrisgthotps ionn

Agreement are accorded rights of transit and non-traffic stop in United U.S.

States territory, as well as the right to pick up and discharge inter-

national traffic in passengers , cargo and mail at a point in the United

States on a route to be agreed upon between the Contracting Parties at a later date.

On the above intercontinental route the airline or airlines designated

to operate such route may operate non-stop flights between any of the points on such intercontinental route omitting stops at one or

more of the other points on such route .

3248

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

PROVISORISCHES LUFTVERKEHRSABKOMMEN ZWISCHEN DER ÖSTERREICHISCHEN BUNDESREGIERUNG UND DER REGIERUNG DER VEREINIGTEN STAATEN VON
AMERIKA.
Im Hinblick einerseits auf die Moskauer Erklärung über Österreich , die von der vom 19. bis 30. Oktober 1943 abgehaltenen Moskauer Konferenz , an der die Regierungen der Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika , des Vereinigten Königreiches von Großbritannien und Nordirland und der Union der Sozialistischen Sowjetrepubliken beteiligt waren , abgegeben wurde , und im Hinblick anderseits auf die der Österreichischen Bundesregierung erteilte Befugnis , internationale Abkommen einzugehen , die den Bestimmungen des am 28. Juni 1946 in Kraft getretenen "Kontrollabkommen für Österreich" unterliegt ;
Im Hinblick ferner auf die Resolution , die in der am 7 . Dezember 1944 in Chicago unterzeichneten Abschluß-Akte der Internationalen Zivilluftfahrtkonferenz enthalten ist , welche eine einheitliche Form für Abmachungen über provisorische Luftwege und Luftverkehrsdienste empfiehlt , sowie von dem Wunsche geleitet , die gesunde wirtschaftliche Entwicklung des Luftverkehrs zwischen den Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika und der Republik Österreich gegenseitig anzuregen und zu fördern ;
Vereinbaren die beiden an dieser Abmachung beteiligten Regierungen , die Entwicklung der regelmäßigen Luftverkehrsdienste zwischen ihren Gebieten durch die folgenden Bestimmungen zu regeln :
Artikel I.
Die vertragschließenden Teile gewähren die Rechte , welche in der beiliegenden Anlage präzisiert und für die Einrichtung der darin beschriebenen regelmäßigen internationalen Zivilluftwege und Luftverkehrsdienste erforderlich sind , gleichviel , ob diese Dienste sofort aufgenommen werden , oder aber zu einem späteren Zeitpunkte , infolge von : a) freier Wahl der vertragschließenden Teile , denen die Rechte gewährt werden; oder b) Beschränkungen, die auf Grund der Ver-
./.

61 STAT. ] AUSTRIA- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- OCT. 8, 1947

3249

ordnungsgewalt des Alliierten Rates auferlegt werden, die in dem am 28. Juni 1946 in Kraft getretenen "Kontrollabkommen für Österreich" nebst eventuellen Ergänzungen niedergelegt sind; oder c) eventuellen zwischen den Okkupationsmächten später zu vereinbarenden Kontrollabkommen.
ARTIKEL II .
Vorbehaltlich der Bestimmungen dieses Abkommens , ist jeder der hier angeführten Luftverkehrsdienste in Betrieb zu setzen , sobald derjenige vertragschließende Teil , dem in Artikel I das Recht gewährt wurde , eine oder mehrere Luftfahrtunternehmen für die betreffende Strecke namhaft zu machen, einem Luftfahrtunternehmen für diese Strecke die Genehmigung erteilt hat , und derjenige vertragschließende Teil , der das Recht gewährt , ist , vorbehaltlich Artikel VI dieses Abkommens , verpflichtet , dem oder den betreffenden Luftfahrtunternehmen die erforderliche Betriebserlaubnis zu erteilen; mit der Maßgabe , daß die derart namhaft gemachten Luftfahrtunternehmen verhalten werden könnem, den zuständigen Luftfahrtbehörden des vertragschließenden Teiles , welcher die Rechte gewährt , auf Grund der normalerweise von diesen Behörden angewendeten Gesetze und Vorschriften ihre Befähigung nachzuweisen, bevor es ihnen gestattet ist , den in diesem Abkommen in Aussicht genommenen Betrieb aufzunehmen . In Kampfgebieten oder militärisch besetzten Gebieten oder in davon berührten Gebieten unterliegt der Betrieb der Genehmigung der zuständigen militärischen Stellen .
ARTIKEL III .
Um jeder unterschiedlichen Behandlung vorzubeugen und um gleiche Behandlung zu gewährleisten, wird vereinbart , daß : a) jeder der vertragschließenden Teile dem oder den nahmhaft gemachten Luftfahrtunternehmen des anderen vertragschlißenden Teiles das Recht einräumt , seine Handelsflughäfen an den in der beiliegenden Anlage angeführten Orten zu benützen a.zw. auf der gleichen und nicht unterschiedlichen Grundlage wie heimische oder ausländische Luftfahrtunternehmen , die internationalen Luftverkehr betreiben . b) jeder der vertragschließenden Teile für die Benützung öffentlicher Flughäfen und anderer unter seiner Aufsicht stehender Einrichtungen angemessene und mäßige Gebühren erheben oder erheben lassen kann. Jeder der vertragschließenden Teile erklärt sich aber damit einverstanden, daß diese Gebühren diejenigen nicht überseigen
./.

3250

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
dürfen , die von heimischen Luftfahrzeugen , die ähnlichen internationalen Luftverkehr betreiben , für die Benützung der betreffenden Flughäfen und Einrichtungen entrichtet werden. c) Brennstoff , Schmieröl und Ersatzteile , die in das Gebiet eines der vertragschließenden Teile von dem anderen vertragschließenden Teile oder dessen Staatsangehörigen eingebracht werden und ausschließlich für den Gebrauch von Luftfahrzeugen des betreffenden vertragschließenden Teiles bestimmt sind , hinsichtlich der zu erhebenden Zölle , Abfertigungsgebühren oder anderer inländischen Zölle oder Abgaben desjenigen vertragschließenden Teiles , in dessen Gebiet sie eingebracht sind , der gleichen Behandlung zu unterliegen haben , wie die heimischen Luftfahrtunternehmen und diejenigen des meistbegünstigten Staates .
d) Brennstoff , Schmieröl , Ersatzteile , normale Ausrüstung und an Bord von Zivilluftfahrzeugen verbleibende Bordvorräte der Luftfahrtunternehmen eines vertragschließenden Teiles , der befugt ist , die in der Anlage angeführten Luftwege und Luftverkehrsdienste zu betreiben , bei der Ankunft im Gebiete oder beim Verlassen des Gebietes des anderen vertragschließenden Teiles von Zoll , Abfertigungsgebühren oder anderen ähnlichen Gebühren oder Abgaben zu befreien sind , selbst wenn derartige Vorräte während des Fluges innerhalb des betreffenden Gebietes von dem Luftfahrzeug gebraucht oder verbraucht werden.
ARTIKEL IV.
Die von einem der vertragschließenden Teile ausgestellten oder anerkannten Lufttüchtigkeitsscheine , Befähigungszeugnisse und Zulassungsscheine sind von dem anderen vertragschließenden Teile für den Betrieb der in der Anlage angeführten Strecken und Dienste als gültig anzuerkennen. Jeder der vertragschließenden Teile behält sich aber das Recht vor , den seinen Staatsangehörigen von einem anderen Staat ausgestellten Befähigungszeugnissen und Zulassungsscheinen zum überfliegen seines eigenen Gebietes die Anerkennung zu versagen .
ARTIKEL V.
a) Die Gesetze und Vorschriften eines vertragschließenden Teiles , betreffend die Zulassung in sein Gebiet oder den Ausflug aus seinem Gebiet für Luftfahrzeuge in internationalen Luftverkehr , oder betreffend den Betrieb und die Navigation solcher Luftfahrzeuge innerhalb seines Gebietes sind auf die Luftfahr-
./.

61 STAT.] AUSTRIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-OCT. 8, 1947

3251

zeuge des anderen vertragschließenden Teiles anzuwenden und müssen von solchen Luftfahrzeugen beim Einflug , Ausflug und innerhalb des Gebietes des erstgenannten Teiles befolgt werden .
b) Die Gesetze und Vorschriften eines vertragschließenden Teiles , betreffend die Zulassung in oder den Ausflug aus seinem Gebiet von Fluggästen , Besatzung der Ladung von Luftfahrzeugen , wie zum Beispiel Vorschriften über Grenzübertritt , Abfertigung , Einwanderung , Passkontrolle , Zollabfertigung und Quarantäne müssen beim Einflug , Ausflug und innerhalb des Gebietes des erstgenannten Teiles von oder hinsichtlich derartiger Fluggäste ( n) , Besatzung oder Ladung eingehalten werden .
ARTIKEL VI .
Ungeachtet der Bestimmungen des Artikels dieses Abkommens behält sich jeder der vertragschließenden Teile das Recht von, die Ausübung der in der Beilage dieses Abkommens umschriebenen Rechte durch ein von dem anderen vertragschließenden Teile namhaft gemachtes Luftfahrtunternehmen zurückzuhalten oder zu widerrufen , falls er nicht davon überzeugt ist , daß ein beträchtlicher Teil des Eigentumsrechtes und die tatsächliche Aufsicht des betreffenden Luftfahrtunternehmens in den Händen von Staatsangehörigen des anderen vertragschließenden Teiles liegt oder , wenn das Luftfahrtunternehmen oder die Regierung , die dieses Luftfahrtunternehmen namhaft gemacht hat , die im Artikel V dieses Abkommens erwähnten Gesetze und Vorschriften nicht befolgt oder sonst seine Verpflichtungen gemäß diesem Abkommen nicht einhält oder die Bedingungen nicht erfüllt , unter denen die Rechte im Sinne dieses Abkommens und der Anlage gewährt werden.
ARTIKEL VII .
Dieses Abkommen und alle damit zusammenhängenden Verträge sind bei der Internationalen Zivilluftfahrtorganisation ( ICAO) eintragen zu lassen.
ARTIKEL VIII .
Im Falle einer der beiden vertragschließenden Teile es für wünschenswert erachtet , die in der beiliegenden Anlage angeführten Flugwege- oder Bedingungen abzuändern , kann er eine Beratung der zuständigen Behörden beider vertragschließenden
./.

3252

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Teile verlangen, die innerhalb einer Frist von sechzig Tagen vom Datum des Verlangens zu beginnen hat .. Falls diese Behörden über neue oder abgeänderte Bestimmungen hinsichtlich der Anlage zu einem beiderseitigen Einvernehmen gelangen , werden ihre diesbezüglichen Empfehlungen nach Bestätigung durch einen diplomatischen Notenwechsel in Kraft gesetzt werden.
ARTIKEL II.
Streitigkeiten, die sich zwischen den vertragschließenden Teilen über die Auslegung oder Anwendung dieses Abkommens oder seiner Anlage ergeben , sind soweit in diesem Abkommen oder seiner Anlage nichts anderes vorgesehen ist und soweit sie nicht durch Verständigung beigelegt werden können , zur Einholung eines Konsultativbescheides einem Schiedsgerichte , bestehend aus drei Schiedsrichtern , zu unterbreiten, von denen je einer von jedem vertragschließenden Teil und der dritte durch Vereinbarung der zwei Schiedsrichter zu bestimmen ist , wobei dieser dritte Schiedsrichter kein Staatsangehöriger der beiden vertragschließenden Teile sein darf. Jeder der vertragschließenden Teile macht einen Schiedsrichter innerhalb von zwei Monaten vom Datum der Einhändigung einer von dem einen Teile dem anderen Teile gerichteten diplomatischen Note namhaft , in der ein Schiedsspruch über eine Streitigkeit verlangt wird ; das Einverständnis über den dritten Schiedsrichter muß innerhalb eines Monats nach Ablauf dieser Frist von zwei Monaten erzielt werden. Wenn kein Einverständnis über den dritten Schiedsrichter innerhalb der angegebenen Frist erzielt werden kann , ist die unbesetzte Stelle durch Ernennung einer vom Ratspräsidenten der ICAO zu bestimmenden Persönlichkeit zu besetzen , die einer nach den Gepflogenheiten der ICAO geführten Schiedsrichterliste zu entnehmen ist . Die ausführenden Behörden der vertragschließenden Teile werden innerhalb ihrer Befugnisse ihr Möglichstes tun, um dem in einem solchen Konsultativbescheid abgegebenen Gutachten Wirkung zu verleihen. Die Kosten des Schiedsgerichtes werden von jeder Partei zur Hälfte getragen .
ARTIKEL I.
Dieses Abkommen, einschliesslich der in der Anlage enthaltenen Bestimmungen, tritt am Tage der Unterzeichnung in Kraft .
./.

61 STAT. ] AUSTRIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-OCT. 8, 1947

3253

ARTIKEL XI
Jeaer der beiden vertragschlissenden Teile kann jeuerzeit dem anderen seine Ausicnt bekanntgegen, dieses Aokomen zu kündigen. Diese Kündigung ist gleichzeitig der ICAO itzutellen. Wenn eine solche Kündigung erfolgt ist , läuft uleses Abkommen nach einem Jahr von dem Datum ao , un uem aer vertragschliessende Teil die Kündigung erhalten nat , sofern aie Kunalgung nicht mit gegenseitiger Zustimmung belaer vertragschlies-
senaer Telle zurückgezogen wird . Mangels einer von dem anderen Vertragsstaat erfolgten Bestätigung , die ein früheres Empfangsdatum festsetzt , ist die Kündigung als vierzehn Tage nach Eingang bei der ICAO erfolgt anzusehen .
ARTIKEL XII .
Das vorliegende Abkommen einschliesslich der in der Anlage enthaltenen Bestimmungen bleibt , vorbehaltlich der im obigen Artikel XI enthaltenen Bestimmungen über die Aufhebung des Abkommens , von dem Tage seines Inkrafttretens solange in Kraft , bis es von einem permanenten Luftverkehrsubkommen abgelöst wird , das zwischen den vertragschliessenden Teilen nach dem Inkrafttreten eines Vertrages zwischen den Alliierten MHchten und Österreich eventuell zum Abschluss gebracht wird .
Zur Urkunde dessen haben die Unterfertigten , die von ihren Regierungen dazu ordnungsgeräss bevollmächtigt sind , dieses Abkommen in doppelter Urschrift in deutscher und englischer Sprache unterzeichnet , die beide in gleicher Weise massgebend sind .
Wien, den 8. Oktober 1947 .

Für die österreichische Bundesregierung:


Für die Regierung der Vereinigten
Staaten von Amerika :
4 Erhardt Jole? s

95347° 49--PT. III- -62

3254

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
ANLAGE ZU DEM PROVISORISCHEN LUFTVERKEHRSABKOMMEN ZWISCHEN DER ÖSTERREICHISCHEN BUNDESREGIERUNG UND DER REGIERUNG
DER VEREINIGTEN STAATEN VON AMERIKA.
I. ABSCHNITT .
Die vertragschliessenden Teile vereinbaren : A. Dass die auf den in dieser Anlage bezeichneten Luftwegen betriebenen namhaft gemachten Luftfahrtunternehmen der beiden vertragschliessenden Teile angemessene Behandlung und Gleichstellung für den Betrieb der genannten Luftwege zu geniessen haben . B. Dass der Beförderungsraum, der von dn namhaft gemachten Luftfahrtunternehmen beider Länder zur Verfügung gestellt wird , in engem Einklang mit den Verkehrserfordernissen zu stehen hat . C. Dass die namhaft gemachten Luftfahrtunternehmen der ver - tragschliessenden Teile auf den in gemeinsamen Betrieben stehenden Abschnitten von den in der gegenwärtigen Anlage bezeichneten Hauptstrecken die beiderseitigen Interessen in einer Weise zu berücksichtigen haben , die eine nachteilige Einwirkung auf ihre beiderseitigen Dienste ausschliesst : D. Dass die von einem nach Massgabe dieses Abkommens und seiner Anlage namhaft gemachten Luftfahrtunternehmen betriebenen Luftverkehrsdienste als ihr Hauptziel die Bereitstellung von Beförderungsraum haben muss , der den Verkehrserfordernissen zwischen dem Staate , dem dieses Luftfahrtunternehmen angehört , und dem Bestimmungslande des Luftlinienverkehrs entspricht . E. Dass das Lade- und Entladerecht an Orten in dem Gebiete des anderen Landes für internationalen Luftverkehr auf dem Wege nach oder von dritten Ländern an einem Orte oder an Orten , die in dieser Anlage näher bezeichnet sind , gemäss den allgemeinen Grundsätzen einer von beiden Regierungen verbürgten , ordnungsgemässen Entwicklung auszuüben und der allgemeine Grundsatz anzuwenden ist , dass der Beförderungsraum im Verhältnis stehen muss :
1. Zu den Verkehrserfordernissen zwischen dem Ursprungslande einerseits und den Bestimmungsländern anderer-
1.

61 STAT. ] AUSTRIA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES--OCT. 8, 1947
seits , 2. Zu den Betriebserfordernissen von durchgehenden
Luftverkehrsdiensten und 3. Zu den Verkehrserfordernissen des von dem Luft-
fahrtunternehmen überflogenen Gebietes , wobei lokale oder regionale Flugdienste zu berücksichtigen sind .
F. Dass die zuständigen Luftfahrtbehörden der beiden vertragschliessenden Teile von Zeit zu Zeit oder auf Ersuchen eines Teiles miteinander Fühlung nehmen werden , um das Ausmass zu bestimmen , in welchem die von den vertragschliessenden Teilen namhaft gemachten Luftfahrtunternehmen die in den Absätzen A bis einschliesslich E dieses Abschnittes festgelegten Grundsätze einhalten . Falls diese Behörden sich auf weitere zur praktischen Durchführung dieser Grundsätze notwendigen Massnahmen einigen , werden die ausführenden Behörden jedes der vertragschliessenden Teile im Rahmen ihrer Befugnis se ihr möglichstes tun , um diese Massnahmen in die Tat umzusetzen .
II . ABSCHNITT .
A. Den im Sinne des vorliegenden Abkommens genehmigten Luftfahrtunternehmen der Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika werden Durchflugs- und nicht kommerzielle Zwischenlandungsrechte im österreichischen Gebiete , sowie das Recht der Mitnahme und Entladung von Fluggästen , Fracht und Post im internationalen Verkehr in Wien oder weiteren vereinbarten österreichischen Zollflughäfen auf dem folgenden Luftwege in beiden Richtungen gewährt :
Von den Vereinigten Staaten über dazwischenliegende Orte nach und über Österreich hinaus .
Auf der obigen interkontinentalen Strecke können das oder die für diesen Luftweg namhaft gemachten Luftfahrtunternehmen reine Durchflüge zwischen allen Orten auf diesem interkontinentalen Luftwege vornehmen , wobei Landungen an einem oder mehreren Orten auf diesem Luftwege übersprungen werden können .
B. Den im Sinne des vorliegenden Abkommens genehmigten Luftfahrtunternehmen der Republik Österreich werden Durchflugs- und nicht kommerzielle Zwischenlandungsrechte im Gebiste der Vereinigten Staaten , sowie das Recht der Mitnahme und Entladung von Fluggästen , Fracht und Post im internetionalen Verkehr an einem Orte in den Vereinigten Staaten auf einem zu einem späteren Zeitpunkt zwischen den vertragschliessenden Teilen zu vereinbarenden Luftwege gewährt .
./.

3255

3256

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Auf dem obigen interkontinentalen Luftwege können das oder die für diesen Luftweg namhaft gemachten Luftfahrtunternehmen reim Durchflüge zwischen allen Orten auf die sem interkontinentalen Luftwege vornehmen , wobei Landungen an einem oder mehreren Orten auf diesem Luftwege übersprungen werden können .

61 STAT.] ECUADOR- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-JAN. 22, 1945

3257

Agreement between the United States of America and Ecuador respecting a cooperative educational_program in Ecuador. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Quito January 22, 1945; entered into force January 22, 1945.

January 22, 1945 (T. I. A. S. 1660]

The American Ambassador to the Ecuadoran Ministerfor Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 18 EXCELLENCY :

Quito, January 22, 1945

I have the honor to refer to previous conversations between myself and Mr. Kenneth Holland , President of the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , the Minister of Public Education and other officials of the Government of Ecuador, concerning the possibility of a cooperative program of education in Ecuador.
I have the honor to inform your Excellency that pursuant to Resolution No. 28 of the First Conference of Ministers and Directors of Education of the American Republics , [' ] and pursuant to the expressed desire of the Government of the Republic of Ecuador, the Government of the United States is prepared to undertake a cooperative program of education with the Government of Ecuador, for the purpose of bringing about a better interchange of educational ideas and methods between the two countries.
I have the honor to state that my Government, acting through the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. , a corporation of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs , is prepared to make available for such a cooperative program of education the sum of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($ 100,000.00 U. S.) at an agreed minimum rate of exchange, on the understanding that the Government of Ecuador for its part will contribute the sum of Six Hundred Seventy Thousand Sucres (S /670.000,00) , being the equivalent of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($ 50,000.00 U.S. ) at the same rate of exchange, as well as such personnel, supplies and materials as it may see fit to provide within Ecuador.

Contributions.

It is proposed that the program be carried on for approximately

three years, in accordance with the following general plan. At the request of Your Excellency's Government and within the
limit of the funds set aside for the purpose, the Foundation will send to Ecuador such educational specialists as may be considered necessary

Educational specialists.

in order to collaborate with your Excellency's Government in the cooperative program, and they shall be acceptable to the Ecuadoran

Government. This group shall be under the direction of an official

1 [Not printed].

3258

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

who will be designated as the Special Representative of the InterAmerican Educational Foundation, Inc. , and will be the representative of the Foundation in Ecuador in connection with this program.

The specific projects and activities to be undertaken and the allo-

cation of program funds therefor, and the methods and procedures and administrative practices to be employed in conducting the pro-

gram, will be mutually agreed upon by the Minister of Education of

the Government of Ecuador and the Special Representative of the

Foundation . Such projects will include the sending of Ecuadoran specialists in education to the United States .

It is proposed that the program be carried out through an appro-

priate organization, section or procedures to be established within

the Ministry of Education itself with administrative autonomy and

that the said Special Representative shall also be named as the Direc-

tor of such organization or section and shall administer the program.

Salaries and expenses.

Of the funds made available by the United States Government,

Seventy Thousand Dollars ($ 70,000.00 U. S. ) will be set aside and

used for paying the salaries and other expenses of the educational

specialists furnished by the Foundation , and the balance, together with the funds contributed by the Government of Ecuador, would

be made available in Ecuador for the projects and activities mutually

Ownership of property .

agreed upon for the program. All property purchased with the funds made available in accord-
ance with this proposal will become the property of the Government

of Ecuador and shall be used for the cooperative program of educa-

tion.

Exemption of specialists from taxes, etc.

Inasmuch as the specialists to be sent to Ecuador by the Founda-

tion will be United States citizens and employees of the United States

Government and also non-residents of Ecuador, it is suggested that

they shall be exempt from all income taxes and social security taxes

with respect to income on which they are obliged to pay income or

social security taxes to the Government of the United States of

America, and from payment of customs and import duties and other

taxes on their personal effects and equipment and supplies for their

own use, and from investment and deposit requirements and other

foreign exchange controls on funds brought into Ecuador for their normal living expenses.

I should be glad if your Excellency would be so good as to confirm to me your approval of this general proposal, with the understanding that the details for the establishment and organization of the proposed cooperative program shall be further discussed and settled by written agreement between the Foundation and the Minister of Education .

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
R. M. SCOTTEN

His Excellency Señor Doctor CAMILO PONCE ENRÍQUEZ , Minister for Foreign Affairs, Quito.

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-JAN. 22, 1945

The Ecuadoran Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

REPÚBLICA DEL ECUADOR MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

28-DDP-5

QUITO, a 22 de Enero de 1945.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR : Tengo a honra responder a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia,
signada con el número 18 y de fecha 22 del mes en curso, en la que, con referencia a las conversaciones que ha mantenido con el señor Ministro de Educación Pública y con el señor Kenneth Holland , Presidente de la "Inter-American Educational Foundation Inc." y otros funcionarios del Gobierno del Ecuador, sobre la posibilidad de emprender un programa cooperativo de educación , me informa que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos está dispuesto a acceder al deseo del Gobierno ecuatoriano para realizar aquel proyecto que, indiscutiblemente, serviría para un intercambio más intenso de ideas y métodos de educación entre los dos países.
2. Me manifiesta Vuestra Excelencia que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, por intermedio de la "Inter-American Educational Foundation Inc." cooperaría a dicho programa educacional con la suma de $ 100.000 , a un tipo de cambio mínimo , siempre que, por su parte , el Gobierno del Ecuador destine al efecto una cantidad equivalente a $ 50.000, al mismo tipo de cambio , así como el personal y más elementos que crea necesarios proveer . 3. Expresa Vuestra Excelencia que el Gobierno de Estados Unidos, por intermedio de la Fundación, enviará los especialistas que fueren necesarios para colaborar con el personal ecuatoriano . El personal de especialistas deberá estar bajo la dirección de un funcionario norteamericano que será el representante especial de la Fundación . 4. Indica que, de acuerdo con las resoluciones adoptadas con el Señor Ministro de Educación , los proyectos y actividades a llevarse a cabo, así como los demás detalles referentes al desenvolvimiento del programa de cooperación educacional, tendrán que ser aportados, oportunamente, de común acuerdo entre los funcionarios ecuatorianos y los especialistas de Estados Unidos de Norte América. 5. En nombre del Gobierno del Ecuador expreso a Vuestra Excelencia la satisfacción conque se ha visto el empeño del Gobierno Norte americano por cooperar al esfuerzo educacional del país y agradezco a Vuestra Excelencia por las oportunas y eficientes gestiones llevadas a cabo para convertir en realidad aquel anhelo ecuatoriano . 6. El Ministerio de Educación, en momento adecuado , procederá a establecer el Organismo que, con autonomía administrativa, se encargue, dentro de los lineamientos del Convenio , del desarrollo científico y eficiente del programa acordado.
7. Por mi parte, al aprobar las bases generales sobre las que deberá establecerse el Convenio de cooperación educacional, debo manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia que, dentro de las posibilidades, no omitiré esfuerzo alguno para el buen éxito del programa y para que éste

3259

3260

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

ensayo de cooperación constituya nuevo motivo para el mejor conocimiento de nuestros dos países . 8. Con respecto a la posibilidad de que se conceda a funcionarios Norteamericanos ciertos privilegios y excenciones constantes en la nota a que respondo , creo que no es posible pronunciarse de momento , pues habrá que hacer un detenido estudio de la Legislación ecuatoriana , para ver de conformar la concesión de dichos privilegios con las disposiciones legales pertinentes.
Válgome de esta oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración ,
C. PONCE ENRÍQUEZ.
Al Excelentísimo Señor DON ROBERT MC . GREGOR SCOTTEN
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América.

Translation

REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS
28-DDP-5 Mr. AMBASSADOR :

QUITO, January 22, 1945.

I have the honor to reply to Your Excellency's courteous note number 18 of the 22d of the current month, in which, with reference to the conversations held with the Minister of Public Education and

Mr. Kenneth Holland , President of the " Inter-American Educational Foundation Inc. " and other officials of the Government of Ecuador

concerning the possibility of undertaking a cooperative program of education, you inform me that the United States Government is prepared to comply with the Ecuadoran Government's desire to carry out that project which assuredly would serve to stimulate the exchange of educational ideas and methods between the two countries.

2. Your Excellency informs me that the United States Government, acting through the "Inter-American Educational Foundation Inc." will cooperate in the said educational program by making available the sum of $ 100,000 at a minimum rate of exchange provided that the Government of Ecuador for its part allocates for that purpose an amount equivalent to $ 50,000 at the same rate of exchange as well as such personnel and other essentials as it may consider necessary to provide. 3. Your Excellency states that the United States Government acting through the Foundation, will send such specialists as may be necessary to collaborate with the Ecuadoran personnel. The specialized personnel is to be under the direction of a North American official who will be the special representative of the Foundation. 4. You indicate that, in accordance with the decisions made in agreement with the Minister of Education , the projects and activities to be undertaken, as well as the other details related to the development of the cooperative educational program, must be duly carried out by mutual agreement between the Ecuadoran officials and the North American specialists.

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-JAN. 22, 1945
5. In the name of the Ecuadoran Government, I wish to express to Your Excellency the satisfaction with which the intention of the North American Government to cooperate in this country's educational endeavors is regarded , and I thank Your Excellency for the timely and effective steps taken to bring to fruition that aspiration on the part of Ecuador. 6. The Ministry of Education will , in due time, proceed to establish the Organization with administrative autonomy which, within the framework of the Agreement, will take charge of the Scientific and effective development of the program agreed upon. 7. For my part, in giving my approval to the general basis on which the Cooperative Educational Agreement is to be effected , I must inform Your Excellency that I will not fail to make every possible effort tending toward the success of the program, and to the end that this test of cooperation may become a new factor for a better understanding between our two countries.
8. With respect to the possibility that certain privileges and exemptions specified in the note to which I am replying may be granted to North American officials , I do not believe it possible to make a definite statement at this time; for a careful study of Ecuadoran legislation will have to be made in order to determine how to reconcile the granting of such privileges with the pertinent legal provisions.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
C. PONCE ENRÍQUEZ. His Excellency
MR. ROBERT MCGREGOR SCOTTEN Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary ofthe United States of America.
Contract Between the President of the Inter- American Educational Foundation, Inc. , and the Ecuadoran Minister of Public Education
The REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (hereinafter called the " Republic ") ; and the INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC., a corporation of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs and an agency of the Government of the United States of America (hereinafter called the " Foundation" ) , have decided to enter into the following contract to undertake a cooperative educational program to promote Inter-American understanding by bringing about a better interchange of educators , educational ideas and methods between Ecuador and the United States, pursuant to Resolution 28 adopted by the First Conference of Ministers and Directors of Education of the American Republics held in Panama in September and October 1943.

3261

3262
Field staff. Servicio. Director. Projects.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
1. The said cooperative educational program shall include :
a. Furnishing by the Foundation of a small Field Staff of educational specialists for service in Ecuador in carrying out the cooperative educational program ;
b. Grants to permit Ecuadoran educators to go to the United States for specialized training, to lecture, to teach and to interchange ideas and experience with United States educators ;
c. Exploration and survey in Ecuador of local needs, and resources for carrying out educational projects at the primary and secondary school levels and in teacher education ;
d. Development , adaptation , and exchange of suitable teaching materials for teachers at the primary, secondary and teacher education levels ;
Local projects needed to implement the program in Ecuador.
The cooperative program of education shall be limited to relatively few projects, each of which is of special interest to the Government of Ecuador, in order that definite results may be obtained and that such results will be indicative of the cooperation existing between the Government of Ecuador and the Government of the United States in the important field of public education.
The Ministry of Education considers the solution of the following problems as being particularly important:
a. The training of school administrators (school directors , school inspectors , provincial directors of education, etc. )
b. The orientation of technical and vocational schools , both urban and rural, at the secondary level .
C. Orientation of schools of teacher education. d. Orientation of preschool education . 2. The Field Staff shall be under the direction of an official who shall have the title of " Special Representative, Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. ", and who shall be the representative of the Foundation (a corporation having juridic personality) in connection with the program to be undertaken in accordance with this agreement. The Special Representative and other members of the Field Staff shall be acceptable to the Minister of Public Education (hereinafter called the " Minister") .
3. There shall be created in the Ministry of Public Education a special technical service which shall have the name of "Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación" (hereinafter called the "Servicio") , which shall act as an intermediary between the Government of Ecuador and the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , and which shall carry out the cooperative program . The Special Representative of the Foundation shall be named as Director of the Servicio.
4. The program shall consist of individual projects. The kind of work and the specific projects to be undertaken in the execution of this agreement and the allocation of funds therefor shall be agreed upon in writing by the Minister of Public Education and the Special

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR--COOPERATIVE EDUCATION--JAN. 22, 1945

3263

Representative of the Foundation, and shall be carried out by the Director of the Servicio in conformity with policies prescribed jointly

by the Minister and the Special Representative of the Foundation. The Ecuadoran educators to be sent to the United States and the

terms of their scholarships or grants shall be mutually agreed upon

in writing by the Minister and the Special Representative.
5. The Foundation shall determine and pay the salary and other Payment of salaries and expenses of Field
expenses payable directly to members of the Field Staff in an amount Staff.

not to exceed Seventy Thousand Dollars ($70,000) U. S. currency, which it will retain in the United States , and shall in addition deposit in the Banco Central del Ecuador in Quito (or in any other bank which may be mutually agreed upon by the Minister and the Special Representative of the Foundation) to the account of the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación , the sum of Thirty Thou-

Deposits.

sand Dollars ($30,000) U. S. currency, the total contribution of the United States Government to this program being therefore One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($ 100,000) .

The Republic shall deposit in the same bank and to the account of the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación the sum of Six Hundred Seventy Thousand Sucres (S/.670.000) , being the equivalent of Fifty Thousand Dollars, at the rate of exchange of 13.4 sucres per dollar. Said contribution shall be in addition to the Government's regular budget for education .

The payments shall be made by the parties on the dates and in the

amounts specified :

United States of America

Ecuador

March 20, 1945 January 20, 1946 January 20, 1947

$10, 000. 00 U. S. C. $10, 000. 00 U. S. C. $10, 000. 00 U. S. C.

Total to be deposited

$30, 000. 00 U. S. C.

Salaries and travel to be paid to person-

nel from the United States

$70, 000. 00 U. S. C.

S/. 220, 000. 00 S/. 220, 000. 00 S/. 230, 000. 00 S/. 670, 000. 00

Total

$100, 000. 00 U. S. C.

The funds deposited by either party for any particular year are not to be drawn against until the funds for the same year are deposited

by the other party. Funds paid over by either party and not matched by the other party within thirty (30) days, shall be returned to the contributor .

6.

Inasmuch

as the

program funds

will

be

used

entirely for the

Exemption offunds from taxes, etc.

benefit of Ecuador, the funds introduced into Ecuador by the Foun-

dation for the purpose of the cooperative program shall be exempt

from taxes, service charges, investment or deposit requirements , and other currency controls, and shall be converted into sucres at a rate of exchange of not less than 13.4 sucres per dollar. Similarly where

Conversion of currency .

it is necessary to convert sucres into dollars for the financing of

scholarships or grants or other expenditures in the United States,

the sucres shall be converted into dollars at the rate of exchange of

not more than 13.5 sucres per dollar.

3264

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

fuWndistfhrhoomladccionugnt.of 7. In view of the fact that many purchases of materials and supplies and other disbursements relating to the execution of the Program, must necessarily be made in the United States of America, the Minister and the Special Representative of the Foundation may agree to withhold from the payments to be made by the Foundation into the said Servicio bank account, as provided in clause 5 hereof, an amount deemed to be necessary to pay for such purchases and disbursements in the United States of America. Said amount shall be considered
as if deposited under the terms of this agreement. Any funds so withheld by the Foundation for such purposes and not expended or obligated therefor, shall be deposited in the said Servicio bank account at any time upon the mutual agreement of the Minister and the Special Representative of the Foundation . General policies and 8. All contracts necessary to carry out the terms of the projects procedures. mutually agreed to as herein provided shall be made in the name of the Servicio and shall be signed by the Minister and the Director of the Servicio. Personnel to be paid out of Program funds deposited in Ecuador shall be selected by the Director of the Servicio, subject to the approval of the Minister. The general policies and procedures for the execution of the Program and for the disbursement and accounting of funds, for the purchase, use, inventory, control and disposition of property, and any other administrative matters, shall be determined or established by mutual agreement between the Minister and the Special Representative of the Foundation . No disbursement from the said Servicio bank account may be made without the signed authorization of the Director of the Servicio or his delegate and of the Minister or his delegate . Checks for an amount of more than Three Thousand Sucres (S/.3,000 ) also should bear both signatures . The books and records of the Servicio relating to the said cooperative educational program shall be open at all times for inspection by representatives of the Republic and of the Foundation, and the Director of the Servicio shall render financial reports to the Republic and to the Foundation at such intervals as may be agreed upon between the Minister and the Special Representative of the Foundation .

anAcded. itional assist

9. The Foundation shall use its best efforts to obtain such assistance and cooperation of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs and other agencies, both public and private, in the United States, as may be appropriate for the execution of the said cooperative educational program . The Republic, in addition to its cash contribution as provided herein, shall (a) appoint specialists, in agreement with the Director of the Servicio , to collaborate with the Field Staff of the Foundation ; (b) make available office space, furnishings and such other facilities, materials, equipment and supplies as it may conveniently provide for the said program ; and (c) lend the general assistance thereto of the other Departments of the Republic.

fuAnvdasi. lability

of 10. The funds payable by the Foundation under this agreement or paid by the parties hereto into the said Servicio bank account shall continue to be available for the said cooperative educational program

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- JAN. 22, 1945

3265

during the existence of this agreement, without regard to annual periods or fiscal years .
In the event that upon the expiration of each twelve-month period of this agreement, and again six months before its final expiration, the Foundation deems that the funds which it has set aside for the

Surplus funds.

payment of salaries and other expenses directly payable to members of the Field Staff, as provided in Clause 5 hereof, will be more than is needed for the purpose, the Foundation will thereupon advise the

Ante, p. 3263.

Republic of the surplus which it can accordingly make available for projects and such additional sum shall be paid into the Servicio bank account or be otherwise disposed of pursuant to this agreement.
The Minister and the Special Representative of the Foundation

shall determine by mutual agreement the disposition of any unobli-
gated funds and of any personal property remaining in the control of
the Servicio upon the termination of this agreement.
Rights and privi11. All rights and privileges which are enjoyed by governmental leges. and official divisions or agencies of the Republic shall accrue to the

Servicio. Such rights and privileges shall include, for example , free postal, telegraph, and telephone service, special government rates on

transportation companies, and also freedom and immunity from excise, stamp, property, income and all other taxes, as well as from

consular charges and customs duties upon imports for the use of the

Servicio in the cooperative educational program. The Foundation shall enjoy the same rights and exemptions with respect to its acts and property relating to the cooperative program. 12. All materials, equipment, and supplies purchased with program meOnwtn,eertsch.ip ofequipfunds shall become and remain the property of the Republic and shall be devoted to the program .

13.

Any right,

power,

or duty

conferred by this agreement upon

Delegation ofpower, etc.

either the Minister, the Special Representative of the Foundation,

or the Director of the Servicio , may be delegated by the recipient

thereof to representatives in writing, provided that such representa-

tives are satisfactory to the other parties. Regardless of the naming

of said representatives, the Minister and the Special Representative of the Foundation shall have the right to refer any matter directly

to one another for discussion and decision.

14. This agreement may be amended from time to time if deemed Amendments.

advisable by the parties hereto , such amendments to be in writing

and signed by the representatives of the Republic and the Foundation. 15. The Executive Power of the Republic will take the necessary

Legislation, etc.

steps to obtain the legislation , decrees , orders or resolutions necessary

to carry out the terms of this agreement.

16.

This agreement shall be in force for a period of three years from

Duration of agreement.

the date hereof, and may be extended by mutual agreement for additional periods.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives, in English

3266

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
and in Spanish, in the City of Quito, on the 22nd day of January, 1945 .
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR By ALFREDO VERA
Ministro de Educación Publica
INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC . By KENNETH HOLLAND
President
La REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR (de aquí en adelante llamada "República" ) y la Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. (Fundación Educacional Interamericana) , corporación de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Interamericanos y dependencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América (en adelante llamada "Fundación " ) , han decidido celebrar el siguiente contrato para llevar a cabo un programa educacional cooperativo para promover la comprensión interamericana por medio de un mejor intercambio , entre Ecuador y Estados Unidos , de educadores y de ideas y métodos educacionales , de acuerdo con la Resolución No. 28 adoptada por la Primera Conferencia de Ministros y Directores de Educación de las Repúblicas Americanas, efectuada en Panamá en los meses de septiembre y octubre de 1943 .
El tal programa educacional cooperativo debe incluir:
a . Suministro por la Fundación de un pequeño cuerpo de especialistas en educación para trabajar en el Ecuador en la realización del programa educacional cooperativo ;
b. Subvenciones para que educadores ecuatorianos puedan viajar a los Estados Unidos para adquirir entrenamiento especializado , para dar conferencias , enseñar e intercambiar ideas y experiencias con los educadores estadounidenses ;
c. La exploración y estudio de las necesidades locales en el Ecuador y de los recursos con que cuenta para llevar a cabo proyectos educacionales en el campo de enseñanza primaria y secundaria y de perfeccionamiento del profesorado ;
d . Desarrollo , adaptación e intercambio de materiales de enseñanza apropiados para los maestros en la enseñanza primaria, secundaria y del profesorado ;
e. Proyectos locales necesarios para la aplicación del programa en el Ecuador. El programa cooperativo educacional deberá ser limitado a relativamente pocos proyectos , cada uno de los cuales será de interés especial para el Gobierno del Ecuador, a fin de poder lograr resultados definitivos y de que tales resultados demuestren la cooperación existente entre el Gobierno del Ecuador y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos en el importante campo de la educación pública. El Ministerio de Educación considera especialmente importante la solución de los siguientes problemas:

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION--JAN. 22, 1945
a . La preparación de administradores escolares (directores de escuelas , inspectores escolares , directores provinciales de educación, etc. ) ;
b. Orientación de las escuelas técnico-profesionales de tipo secundario , urbanos y rurales , incluyendo las secciones de orientación vocacional ;
c . Orientación de las escuelas de experimentación pedagógica; d. Tecnificación de la educación pre-escolar .
2. El cuerpo de especialistas (Field Staff) estará bajo la dirección de un funcionario que llevará el título de "Special Representative, Inter-American Educacional Foundation, Inc. " (Representante Especial) , y quien será el representante de la Fundación (corporación con personería jurídica) en relación con el programa a llevarse a cabo de conformidad con este acuerdo . El Representante Especial y los demás miembros del Cuerpo de Especialistas deberán ser aceptados por el Ministro de Educación Pública (en adelante llamado "Ministro").
3. Se establecerá en el Ministerio de Educación Pública un servicio especial técnico que será denominado "Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación " (de aquí en adelante llamado "Servicio " ) , que actuará como intermediario entre el Gobierno del Ecuador y la Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. y que llevará a cabo el programa cooperativo . El Representante Especial de la Fundación será nombrado Director del Servicio.
4. El programa consistirá de proyectos individuales. Las clases de actividades, y los proyectos específicos a efectuarse en la ejecución de este acuerdo y la asignación de los fondos para los mismos serán acordados por escrito por el Ministro de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial de la Fundación , y serán ejecutados por el Director del Servicio en conformidad con las normas y procedimientos establecidos conjuntamente por el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación . Los Educadores ecuatorianos a enviarse a Estados Unidos así como las condiciones de sus becas o subvenciones de entrenamiento , serán mutuamente acordados por escrito entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación . 5. La Fundación determinará y pagará los sueldos y otros gastos pagaderos directamente a los miembros del Cuerpo de Especialistas, cuyo monto no excederá de Setenta Mil Dólares ($ 70.000,00 U.S. ) , cantidad que retendrá en los Estados Unidos y, además , depositará en el Banco Central del Ecuador en Quito (o en cualquier otro banco que sea mutuamente convenido por el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación ) a la cuenta del Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación, la suma de Treinta Mil Dólares ($ 30.000,00 U.S. ) , siendo por lo tanto la contribución total del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos para este programa , la cantidad de Cien Mil Dólares ($ 100.000,00 U.S. ) .
La República del Ecuador depositará en el mismo banco y a la cuenta del Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación la suma de Seiscientos Setenta Mil Sucres (S/.670.000,00 ) siendo ésta el

3267

3268

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT,

equivalente de Cincuenta Mil Dólares, al tipo de cambio de 13.4 sucres por dólar. La mencionada contribución será en adición al

presupuesto normal del Gobierno para la educación.

Los pagos serán efectuados por las partes en las fechas y cuotas

estipuladas a continuación :

EE.UU. de América

Ecuador

Marzo 20 de 1945 Enero 20 de 1946 Enero 20 de 1947

$10.000,00 U.S. $10.000,00 U.S. $10.000,00 U.S.

S/.220.000,00 S/.220.000,00 S/.230.000,00

Total a depositarse

$30.000,00 U.S.

Sueldo y transporte a pagarse al personal esta-

dounidense

$70.000,00 U.S.

S/.670.000,00

Total

$100.000,00 U.S.

Los fondos depositados por cualquiera de las partes contratantes para cualquier año estipulado no serán girados hasta que los fondos para el mismo año no sean depositados por la otra parte . En caso de que una parte deposite su aporte y la otra no haga el depósito correspondiente dentro de los 30 días siguientes, aquel aporte será devuelto al contribuyente. 6. Por cuanto los fondos destinados al programa serán usados enteramente en beneficio del Ecuador, los fondos introducidos en el Ecuador por la Fundación para fines del programa cooperativo deberán ser exentos de impuestos , recargos por servicio , requerimientos de inversión o depósito , y otros controles de cambio, y serán convertidos en sucres a un tipo de cambio de no menos de 13.4 sucres por dólar. Así mismo cuando sea necesario convertir sucres a dólares para financiar las becas y subvenciones de entrenamiento y otros gastos en los Estados Unidos , los sucres serán convertidos en dólares a un tipo de cambio de no más de 13.5 sucres por dólar. 7. En vista de que muchas compras de materiales y equipos y otros desembolsos relacionados con la ejecución del Programa necesariamente tendrán que hacerse en los Estados Unidos de América, el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación podrán acordar el retener de los depósitos que la Fundación deberá hacer en la cuenta bancaria del Servicio, tal como se estipula en el artículo 5 de este contrato, la cantidad que consideren necesaria para efectuar dichas compras y desembolsos en los Estados Unidos de América. Esta cantidad será considerada como si se hubiera depositado bajo las disposiciones de este acuerdo. Cualesquiera fondos así retenidos por la Fundación para tales fines y no gastados o comprometidos para esto, serán depositados en la mencionada cuenta bancaria del Servicio
en cualquier momento cuando el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación así lo convengan. 8. Todos los contratos necesarios para llevar a cabo los proyectos mutuamente acordados, de conformidad con este acuerdo , serán celebrados a nombre del Servicio y serán firmados por el Ministro y el Director del Servicio . El personal que será remunerado con fondos del Programa depositados en el Ecuador será seleccionado por el

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-JAN. 22, 1945
Director del Servicio, sujeto a la aprobación del Ministro. Las normas generales y procedimientos para la ejecución del Programa y para el desembolso y contabilidad de los fondos , para la compra, uso, inventario , control y disposición de bienes y cualesquiera otros asuntos administrativos , serán determinados o establecidos por mutuo acuerdo entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación . No se hará ningún desembolso de la susodicha cuenta bancaria del Servicio sin la autorización firmada del Director del Servicio o de su delegado y del Ministro o de su delegado . Los cheques que pasen de Tres Mil Sucres (S/.3,000,00 ) deberán también llevar ambas firmas. Los libros y records del Servicio relacionados con el programa cooperativo de educación estarán en todo tiempo disponibles para inspección por representantes de la República y de la Fundación ; y el Director del Servicio rendirá informes financieros a la República y a la Fundación en los intervalos que sean acordados entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación.
9. La Fundación hará lo posible para conseguir de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Interamericanos y de otras entidades , tanto públicas como privadas, en los Estados Unidos, la ayuda y cooperación que sean convenientes para la ejecución del programa cooperativo educacional . La República, además de su contribución en efectivo aquí estipulada, (a ) nombrará, de acuerdo con el Director del Servicio , especialistas para colaborar con el Cuerpo de Especialistas de la Fundación ; (b) suministrará locales para oficinas , así como muebles y cualesquiera otras facilidades, materiales, equipos y suministros que pueda convenientemente aportar para tal programa y (c) en general , prestará al programa la ayuda de las demás dependencias de la República. 10. Los fondos pagaderos por la Fundación según este acuerdo, o depositados por las partes contratantes en la cuenta bancaria del Servicio, seguirán disponibles para dicho programa cooperativo de educación durante la vigencia de este acuerdo, sin tomar en consideración períodos anuales o años fiscales . En el caso de que a la expiración de cada período de 12 meses de este acuerdo , y también seis meses antes de su expiración final, la Fundación crea que los fondos segregados para el pago de sueldos y otros gastos pagaderos directamente a los miembros del Cuerpo de Especialistas , de conformidad con el Artículo 5 de éste, sea más de lo necesario para ese fin, la Fundación entonces avisará a la República del sobrante que, por consiguiente, podrá transferir para invertirse en proyectos y esta cantidad adicional se depositará en la cuenta bancaria del Servicio o se dispondrá de otra manera, de conformidad con este acuerdo.
El Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación determinarán por mutuo acuerdo la disposición de cualesquiera fondos no comprometidos y de cualesquiera otros bienes que queden bajo el control del Servicio , al vencimiento de este acuerdo. 11. El Servicio disfrutará de todos los derechos y privilegios de que gozan dependencias y entidades gubernamentales y oficiales de la República. Tales derechos y privilegios incluirán, por ejemplo,
95347°-49-PT. III- -63

3269

3270 :

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.
franquicia postal, telegráfica y telefónica, tarifas gubernamentales especiales en compañías de transportes, y también exención e inmunidad de toda clase de impuestos, (timbres, sobre la renta, etc.) así como de derechos consulares e impuestos aduaneros sobre importaciones destinadas para el uso del Servicio en el programa cooperativo de educación . La Fundación gozará de los mismos derechos y exenciones con respecto a sus actos y bienes relacionados con el programa cooperativo. 12. Todo material, equipo y suministros comprados con fondos del programa, pasarán a ser propiedad de la República y serán dedicados al programa. 13. Cualquier derecho , facultad o deber conferido por este acuerdo al Ministro , al Representante Especial de la Fundación o al Director del Servicio , podrá ser delegado , por escrito, a representantes, siempre y cuando tales representantes sean aceptables a las otras partes . No obstante el nombramiento de tales representantes , el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación podrán tratar cualquier asunto directamente entre ellos y resolverlo. 14. Este acuerdo puede ser reformado posteriormente si las partes lo creyeren necesario, y tales reformas deberán ser efectuadas por escrito y firmadas por los representantes de la República y de la Fundación .
15. El Poder Ejecutivo de la República dará los pasos necesarios para obtener los decretos, órdenes y resoluciones que sean necesarios para cumplir las estipulaciones de este acuerdo. 16. Este acuerdo estará en vigencia por un período de tres años desde esta fecha y podrá ser prorrogado de mutuo acuerdo por nuevos períodos .
EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes contratantes han celebrado este acuerdo, en inglés y en español, por medio de sus representantes debidamente autorizados, en la ciudad de Quito , el día 22 del mes de enero de 1945 .
POR LA REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR ALFREDO VERA
Ministro de Educación Pública
POR LA INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION , INC. KENNETH HOLLAND
Presidente

61 STAT.] VENEZUELA-HEALTH AND SANITATION-JUNE 30, 1947

3271

Agreement between the United States of America and Venezuela respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Venezuela, extending the agreement of February 18, 1943, as amended, until June 30, 1948. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Caracas June 30, 1947; entered into force June 30, 1947 ; effective January 1 , 1947.

June 30, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1661]

The Venezuelan Minister of Foreign Relations to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
ESTADOS UNIDOS DE VENEZUELA MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES DIRECCION DE POLITICA INTERNACIONAL SECCION DE RELACIONES INTERAMERICANAS

No. 2953

CARACAS , 30 de junio de 1947.

SEÑOR ENCARGADO DE NEGOCIOS:

En relación con la atenta nota de esa Embajada, número 2591 , de

fecha 30 de enero del corriente año , y como resultado de las conversaciones celebradas posteriormente, tengo a honra hacer constar que

entre los Gobiernos de los Estados Unidos de Venezuela y de los Estados Unidos de América se ha convenido en prorrogar por segunda

vez, por un período adicional de 18 meses, a partir del 1º de enero de

1947, el Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento que lleva a

cabo la Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública, de conformidad con el Modus-Vivendi celebrado por cambio de notas con fecha 18 de febrero de 1943, el cual fué prorrogado por vez primera,

mediante igual procedimiento , el día 28 de junio de 1944, por un

período de 30 meses que venció el 31 de diciembre de 1946. La

prórroga a que se refiere la presente comunicación se efectuará con

sujeción a las siguientes estipulaciones :

Primera: Se considera que las obligaciones financieras del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos y del Gobierno de Venezuela, derivadas del Modus-Vivendi inicial, han sido cumplidas , por parte de dicho Instituto , con la contribución de $ 950.000 , (dólares americanos) suministrada en la forma prevista, y por parte del Gobierno de Venezuela, con la inversión de Bs.2,00 por cada dólar aportado por aquél. Igualmente, se reconoce que las obligaciones de la misma índole resultantes de la primera prórroga del Modus-Vivendi han quedado satisfechas , por parte del mencionado Instituto, con la contribución de $ 500.000 (moneda americana) en la forma prevista, y por parte del Gobierno de Venezuela con la inversión de una cantidad de bolívares equivalente a $ 500.000 (moneda americana) . Toda suma restante de esas contribuciones que no haya sido invertida al finalizar el período de la primera prórroga (junio de 1944 a diciembre de 1946 ) quedará disponible para el Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento a que se contrae esta comunicación.

3272

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Segunda: El Instituto continuará siendo representado en Venezuela por un grupo de su personal, conocido con el nombre de Misión del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos en Venezuela, y el Jefe de dicha Misión seguirá actuando como Director de la Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública por el período de esta prórroga.
Tercera: El Programa Cooperativo de Sanidad y Saneamiento será financiado por las Partes Contratantes durante el período de prórroga indicado en este acuerdo , en la forma siguiente:

a) El Instituto contribuirá con una suma no mayor de $ 166.000 (dólares americanos ) , de la cual $ 25.000 serán depositados a la cuenta de la Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública en la forma siguiente:

En enero de 1947 ... En julio de 1947 .

$ 12.500.00 "12. 500. 00

Total .

... $ 25. 000. 00

El remanente de los $ 166.000.00 o sean $ 141.000.00 será aportado de acuerdo con los términos del aparte c) de esta cláusula .
b) El Instituto puede retener de los depósitos indicados en el aparte a) de la presente cláusula la cantidad presupuestada que el Ministerio de Sanidad y Asistencia Social y el Jefe de la Misión crean necesaria para la compra de materiales y equipos en los Estados Unidos de América y cualquier otro desembolso relacionado con la ejecución de este Programa. Todo fondo así retenido por el Instituto deberá considerarse como depositado bajo los términos comprendidos en el aparte a) . Si dichas sumas no fuesen gastadas o comprometidas para tales propósitos , serán depositadas a la orden de la Oficina en cualquier momento, de mutuo acuerdo entre el Ministerio y el Jefe de la Misión.

c) Además de la suma que será depositada a la cuenta de la Oficina según el aparte a) , el Instituto hará por separado la asignación de los fondos necesarios para pagar los sueldos , gastos de manutención, viajes y gastos de viajes y otros gastos administrativos de los empleados de la Misión u otros empleados del Instituto en los Estados Unidos de Venezuela durante el período de esta prórroga. De esta suma presupuestada de $ 141.000.00 se tomará la cantidad necesaria a los fines anteriormente mencionados . Dichos fondos serán usados

por el Jefe de la Misión en los Estados Unidos de Venezuela, separadamente de los fondos que se depositen por el Instituto a cuenta de la Oficina .

d) El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de Venezuela depositará a la cuenta de la Oficina el equivalente en bolívares de $ 250.000.00 (dólares americanos) al cambio de Bs.3.33 por cada dólar, en la forma siguiente :

Durante el mes de enero de 1947.... Durante el mes de julio de 1947 ..

$ 68. 468. 46 (Bs. 228.000. ) $181. 531. 54 (Bs. 604. 500.)

Total .....

$250. 000. 00 (Bs. 832. 500.)

61 STAT. ] VENEZUELA-HEALTH AND SANITATION--JUNE 30, 1947
e) Por Convenio escrito , celebrado entre el Ministerio y el Jefe de la Misión, puede ser modificada de acuerdo con las necesidades del programa la forma de hacer los depósitos previstos en los apartes a) y d).
f) Además de las contribuciones indicadas en los apartes a) y d), la Oficina puede recibir contribuciones de otro origen y gastarlas en la misma forma que los fondos anteriormente citados y para los usos y objetivos del Programa de Salud y Saneamiento.
g) Toda suma o propiedad adquirida por la Oficina , que no haya sido gastada, utilizada o asignada a la terminación del período indicado en esta prórroga, quedará como propiedad del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de Venezuela y continuará usándose para los fines establecidos por el Programa Cooperativo . No obstante, para asegurar la realización del objetivo de dicho Programa, el Ministerio y el Jefe de la Misión determinarán de mutuo acuerdo el uso preciso y disposición que se dará al dinero y propiedades no gastadas y no asignadas a la terminación de este Convenio .
h) Por mutuo acuerdo entre el Ministerio y el Jefe de la Misión, los fondos de la Oficina pueden ser usados para reembolsar o sufragar los sueldos, manutención , viajes , gastos de viajes u otros gastos de aquellos miembros adicionales de la Misión u otros empleados del Instituto que las Partes Contratantes crean necesario emplear. Estos fondos pueden ser erogados o concedidos para tales fines por la Oficina al Instituto o a cualquier otra organización, pero en cada caso el Ministerio y el Jefe de la Misión celebrarán un convenio de proyecto en el cual especifiquen las finalidades y todas las condiciones para conceder estas erogaciones .
Cuarta: El Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento continuará desarrollándose por medio de Proyectos individuales cuyo objeto consistirá principalmente en la construcción e instalación de acueductos en las comunidades rurales de los Estados Unidos de Venezuela y en cualquier otro propósito que afecte la salud y saneamiento del pueblo venezolano . Cada Proyecto estará estipulado en un Convenio de Proyecto que será firmado de mutuo acuerdo por el Ministro de Sanidad y Asistencia Social y el Jefe de la Misión en los Estados Unidos de Venezuela . El Convenio de Proyecto determinará la clase de trabajo que se llevará a efecto , la asignación de fondos , los responsables de la ejecución del proyecto y cualquier otro asunto que las Partes Contratantes crean necesario incluir.
Quinta: Todo lo relativo a los planes de acción concernientes a la realización del Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiemto, a los procedimientos que han de seguirse para el desarrollo de los mismos y a los asuntos de carácter administrativo que correspondan a la Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública, será determinado de mutuo acuerdo entre el Ministerio de Sanidad y Asistencia Social, el Director de la Oficina y el Jefe de la Misión en Venezuela .
Sexta: Los contratos que celebre la Oficina con el objeto de ejecutar los Convenios de Proyectos, así como todas las erogaciones de fondos

3273

3274

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
de la misma, deberán ser autorizados previamente por su Director. El personal subalterno de la Oficina será seleccionado de mutuo acuerdo entre el Ministerio de Sanidad y Asistencia Social y el Director de aquélla, y los nombramientos correspondientes se harán por Resolución del mencionado Departamento Ejecutivo.
Séptima: Los libros, documentos y cuentas de la Oficina estarán en cualquier momento a la disposición de los representantes autorizados del Gobierno de Venezuela y del Instituto, para su inspección y revisión, y el Director de la Oficina rendirá Informes a dicho Gobierno y al Instituto con la frecuencia que de mutuo acuerdo determinen el Ministerio de Sanidad y Asistencia Social y el Jefe de la Misión.
Octava: La Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública, como dependencia que es del Ministerio de Sanidad y Asistencia Social, gozará de los derechos y privilegios que la ley acuerde a dependencias oficiales semejantes, entre ellos franquicia postal y telegráfica y descuentos en compañías de transporte ; y en la medida en que gocen de exoneraciones aduaneras las susodichas dependencias , les serán concedidas a la Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública para la importación de efectos destinados al desarrollo del Programa Cooperativo , siendo entendido que el Ministerio puede revisar, como lo hace respecto de las demás dependencias, las listas de importación que se formulen.
Novena: El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de Venezuela reconoce al Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos como un organismo del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América. La representación del Instituto queda exenta del impuesto sobre la renta por las cantidades que en calidad de remuneración reciba del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos y sus importaciones destinadas al desarrollo del Programa de Salud y Saneamiento serán exoneradas de derechos aduaneros.
Décima: El Ministro de Sanidad y Asistencia Social, el Jefe de la Misión y el Director de la Oficina , en los casos en que sea posible podrán delegar las atribuciones que les asigne el presente Convenio de Prórroga en representantes debidamente autorizados por ellos .
Décima-primera: Las estipulaciones del Modus-Vivendi original y del Primer Convenio de Prórroga (junio de 1944 a diciembre de 1946) permanecerán en vigor en cuanto no hayan sido derogadas directa o indirectamente por lo establecido en el presente Convenio.
Esta nota y la contestación de Vuestra Señoría en los mismos términos , constituirán un acuerdo respecto de lo consignado en las cláusulas que anteceden.
Válgome de la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Señoría las seguridades de mi distinguida consideración.
CARLOS MORALES Al Honorable Señor
THOMAS J. MALEADY, Encargado de Negocios ad-interim de los Estados Unidos de América. Presente.

61 STAT. ] VENEZUELA-HEALTH AND SANITATION-JUNE 30, 1947

3275

Translation
UNITED STATES OF VENEZUELA MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL POLICY INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS SECTION

No. 2953 MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES :

CARACAS, June 30, 1947.

With reference to your Embassy's courteous note No. 2591 , [' ] dated January 30, 1947 , and as a result of the conversations held subsequently, I have the honor to confirm that it has been agreed between the Governments of the United States of Venezuela and

the United States of America to extend a second time, for an additional period of 18 months, beginning January 1 , 1947, the cooperative program of health and sanitation which is being carried out by the Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública in conformity with the Modus-Vivendi concluded by an exchange of notes, dated February 18, 1943 , which was first extended , through the same procedure, on June 28, 1944, for a period of 30 months which expired on December 31 , 1946. The extension to which the present communication refers shall be effected subject to the following provisions :

First : It is considered that the financial obligations of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the Government of Venezuela , derived from the initial Modus-Vivendi , have been fulfilled , on the part of the said Institute, by the contribution of $ 950,000 (American dollars) furnished in the manner specified , and on the part of the Government of Venezuela, by the investment of Bs. 2.00 for each dollar contributed by the former. Likewise, it is recognized that the obligations of the same nature resulting from the first extension of the Modus-Vivendi have been fulfilled , on the part of the said Institute, by the contribution of $ 500,000 (American currency) , in the manner specified, and on the part of the Government of Venezuela, by the investment of a sum in bolivars equivalent to $500,000 (American currency) . Any unexpended sum remaining from those contributions at the end of the

first period of extension (June, 1944 to December, 1946) shall be available for the cooperative program of health and sanitation agreed upon in this communication.

Second : The Institute shall continue to be represented in Venezuela by a group of its personnel, known by the name of Mission of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs in Venezuela, and the Chief of the said Mission shall continue to act as Director of the Oficina

Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública for the period of this extension.
Third: The cooperative program of health and sanitation shall be financed by the Contracting Parties during the period of extension indicated in this Agreement, in the following manner :
(a) The Institute shall contribute a sum not to exceed $ 166,000 (American dollars) of which $25,000 shall be deposited to the account
1 '[Not printed].

57 Stat. 1126. 58 Stat. 1446.

3276

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

of the Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública in the

following manner :

In January 1947 ....

$12, 500.00

In July 1947..

12, 500. 00

Total ....

$25,000.00

The remainder of the $ 166,000 , that is, $ 141,000 shall be contributed in accordance with the terms of paragraph (c) of this clause.

(b) The Institute may retain from the deposits indicated in paragraph (a) of the present clause the estimated sum which the Ministry of Health and Social Assistance and the Chief of the Mission may deem necessary for the purchase of material and equipment in the United States of America and for any other expenditure connected with the execution of this program. Any funds so retained by the Institute shall be considered as deposited under the terms contained in paragraph (a) . If the said sums are not spent or allotted for such purposes, they shall be deposited to the order of the Oficina at any time, by mutual agreement between the Ministry and the Chief of the Mission .

(c ) In addition to the sum which shall be deposited to the account of the Oficina in accordance with paragraph (a) , the Institute shall

make , separately, the allocation of the necessary funds to pay the salaries , maintenance, transportation and traveling expenses, and other administrative expenses of the employees of the Mission or other employees of the Institute in the United States of Venezuela during the period of this extension . From this estimated sum of $ 141,000.00 the sum necessary for the above-mentioned purposes shall be taken. The said funds shall be used by the Chief of the Mission in the United States of Venezuela separately from the funds which are deposited by the Institute to the account of the Oficina .
(d) The Government of the United States of Venezuela shall deposit

to the account of the Oficina the equivalent in bolivars of $250,000 (American dollars) at the exchange rate of Bs. 3.33 for each dollar, in the following manner:

During the month of January, 1947 ..... During the month of July, 1947.

$68, 468. 46 (Bs. 228,000) $ 181 , 531. 54 (Bs. 604,500)

Total .....

$250,000. 00 (Bs. 832,500)

(e) The manner of making the deposits which are specified in paragraphs (a) and (d ) may be modified , according to the requirements of the program, by a written agreement concluded between the Ministry and the Chief of the Mission .
(f) In addition to the contributions indicated in paragraphs (a) and (d) , the Oficina may receive contributions of any other origin and spend them in the same manner as the funds mentioned above and for the purposes and objectives of the Program of Health and Sanitation.
(g) Any sum or property acquired by the Oficina, which has not been spent, utilized or allotted at the expiration of the period indicated in this extension, shall remain the property of the Government

61 STAT. ] VENEZUELA- HEALTH AND SANITATION-JUNE 30, 1947
of the United States of Venezuela and shall continue to be used for the purposes established by the Cooperative Program. Nevertheless, to ensure the attainment of the objective of the said Program , the Ministry and the Chief of the Mission shall determine by mutual agreement the exact use and disposal which shall be made of the money and properties not used and not allotted at the termination of this Agreement.
(h) By mutual agreement between the Ministry and the Chief of the Mission, the funds of the Oficina may be used to reimburse for or pay the salaries, maintenance , traveling expenses or other expenses of such additional members of the Mission or other employees of the Institute as the Contracting Parties may deem it necessary to employ. These funds may be appropriated or granted for such purposes by the Oficina to the Institute or to any other organization, but in each case the Ministry and the Chief of the Mission shall conclude a project agreement specifying the purposes and all the conditions for granting such appropriations.
Fourth: The Cooperative Program of Health and Sanitation shall continue to be carried out through individual Projects which shall have as their principal objective the construction and installation of waterworks in the rural communities of the United States of Venezuela and any other enterprise which affects the health and sanitation of the Venezuelan people. Each Project shall be provided for in a Project Agreement which shall be signed by mutual accord by the Minister of Health and Social Assistance and the Chief of the Mission in the United States of Venezuela. The Project Agreement shall specify the kind of work which will be carried out , the allotment of funds , the persons responsible for the execution of the project and any other matter which the Contracting Parties may deem necessary to include.
Fifth: All matters relating to the plans of action for putting into effect the Cooperative Program of Health and Sanitation, to the procedures which are to be followed for carrying them out, and to matters of an administrative nature which concern the Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública shall be decided by mutual agreement between the Ministry of Health and Social Assistance , the Director of the Oficina , and the Chief of the Mission in Venezuela.
Sixth: Such contracts as the Oficina may conclude for the purpose of carrying out the Project Agreements, as well as all distributions of its funds, shall be previously authorized by its Director. The staff of the Oficina shall be selected by mutual agreement between the Ministry of Health and Social Assistance and the Director of the former, and the appropriate appointments shall be made by a Resolution of the said Executive Department.
Seventh: The books, documents and accounts of the Oficina shall at all times be at the disposal of the authorized representatives of the Government of Venezuela and the Institute for their inspection and auditing, and the Director of the Oficina shall make Reports to the said Government and to the Institute with such frequency as the

3277

3278
57 Stat. 1126. 58 Stat. 1446.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Ministry of Health and Social Assistance and the Chief of the Mission may determine by mutual agreement.
Eighth: The Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública, as an agency of the Ministry of Health and Social Assistance , shall enjoy such rights and privileges as are granted by law to similar official agencies , including exemption from postal and telegraph fees and discounts in transportation companies ; and to the extent that the aforesaid agencies enjoy customs exemptions, such exemptions shall be granted to the Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública for the importation of articles intended for the carrying out of the Cooperative Program, it being understood that the Ministry may examine, as it does with respect to the other agencies, such lists of imports as may be prepared.
Ninth: The Government of the United States of Venezuela recognizes the Institute of Inter-American Affairs as an agency of the Government of the United States of America . The representatives of the Institute shall be exempt from income tax on the sums which they receive as remuneration from the United States Government and their imports for use in the carrying out of the Program of Health and Sanitation shall be exempt from customs duties.
Tenth: The Minister of Health and Social Assistance, the Chief of the Mission, and the Director of the Oficina, may, whenever possible, delegate the functions assigned to them under the present Agreement of Extension to representatives duly authorized by them .
Eleventh: The provisions of the original Modus Vivendi and of the First Agreement of Extension (June 1944 to December 1946 ) shall remain in force unless invalidated directly or indirectly by the terms of the present Agreement.
This note and your reply in the same terms shall constitute an agreement respecting the provisions of the preceding clauses.
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to you the assurances of my distinguished consideration.
CARLOS MORALES
The Honorable THOMAS J. MALEADY, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim ofthe United States of America. City .

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Venezuelan Minister of Foreign Relations

No. 2727

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Caracas, June 30, 1947.

EXCELLENCY:
Extension of pro- With reference to this Embassy's note No. 2591 of January 30, gram .
1947 and subsequent conversations between officers of this Embassy

61 STAT. ] VENEZUELA-HEALTH AND SANITATION-JUNE 30, 1947

3279

and of the Ministry of Foreign Relations, and with particular reference to your Excellency's note No. 2953 of June 30, 1947 , I have the

Ante, p. 3275.

honor, in accordance with the instructions received from my Government, to confirm that it has been agreed by the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United

States of Venezuela , to extend for an additional period of eighteen

months beginning January 1 , 1947 , the cooperative program of Health

and Sanitation which has been carried on through the Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública in accordance with the modus vivendi entered into by an exchange of notes February 18, 1943 which was extended by a similar procedure on June 28 , 1944 for a period of

57 Stat. 1126. 58 Stat. 1446.

thirty months , which expired December 31 , 1946. The extension of

the Agreement, which is agreed upon in the present exchange of notes ,

will be carried out in accordance with the following stipulations :
Financial obligaFirst : The financial obligations of the Institute and the Govern- tions

ment of Venezuela under the first Modus Vivendi are considered to

have been fulfilled by the contribution of $ 950,000 (USC) by the Institute as provided for, and by the Government of Venezuela by the expenditure of Bs . 2.00 for each dollar contributed by the Institute . In the same manner, the financial obligations of the Institute

and the Government of Venezuela under the First Extension Agreement are considered to have been fulfilled by the contribution of $500,000 (USC) by the Institute ; and by the equivalent in bolívares of $ 500,000 (USC) contributed by the Government of Venezuela.

Any of these funds remaining unexpended at the expiration of the First Extension Agreement (June 1944 to December 1946 ) shall continue to be available for the purposes of the Cooperative Program of Health and Sanitation provided for in this Agreement.
Second: The Institute shall continue to be represented in Venezuela by a group of its officials to be known as the "Field Party of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs in Venezuela" . The Chief of the

Field Party.

Field Party shall continue to serve as Director of the Oficina Coope-

rativa Interamericana de Salud Pública during the period of this

extension of the agreement. Third: The Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program shall be
financed by the parties hereto during the period covered by this agree-

Financing of program .

ment as follows:

a) The Institute shall contribute an amount not to exceed $ 166,000

(USC) out of which $ 25,000 (USC) shall be deposited to the account of the Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública in the

following manner:

In January, 1947 - $12,500. In July ---- 1947 - 12, 500.

Contribution by Institute.

Total - $25,000.
The balance of the $ 166,000 , that is, $ 141,000 . shall be contributed
in accordance with Paragraph c) of this Clause. Funds withheld for
b) The Institute may withhold from the deposits called for in purchases in U. 8.
Paragraph a) the estimated amounts deemed necessary by the Minister and the Chief of Field Party in Venezuela to pay for the purchase in the United States of America of materials, supplies and

3280

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

equipment, and other disbursements relating to the execution of this

Program. Any funds so withheld by the Institute shall be considered

as deposited in accordance with Paragraph a) but if said sums are

not expended or obligated for such purposes, they shall be deposited

to the order of the Oficina at any time by mutual agreement between

Allocation of funds to pay salaries, etc.

the Minister and the Chief of Field Party. c) Besides the sum to be deposited to the account of the Oficina
as mentioned in Paragraph a) , the Institute shall make a separate

allocation of necessary funds to pay the salaries, living expenses,

travel and transportation costs and other administrative expenses of

the members of the Institute Field Party and other Institute employ-

ees in Venezuela during the period covered by the Extension Agree-

ment . The funds necessary for the above mentioned purposes will be

taken out of the budget of $ 141,000 . Said funds shall be used by the

Chief of Field Party in Venezuela separate and apart from the funds

to be deposited to the account of the Oficina by the Institute. Venezuelan deposit.
d) The Government of the United States of Venezuela shall deposit
to the account of the Oficina the equivalent in Venezuelan currency

of $250,000 . at the conversion rate of 3.33 bolívares per U. S. Dollar in the following manner:

During January 1947 During July 1947

$ 68, 468. 46 (Bs . 228, 000. 00) 181, 531. 54 (Bs. 604, 500. 00)

Total - $250,000.00 (Bs. 832, 500. 00)

Amendment of deposit schedule.

e) By written agreement between the Minister and the Chief of

Party, the schedule for making deposits as provided under paragraphs

a) and d) hereof, may be amended as required by the needs of the

Program .

Receipt of contributions from other

f) Besides the contributions mentioned in paragraphs a) and d) ,

sources .

the Oficina may receive contributions from other sources and expend

these funds in the same manner as previously mentioned for the uses

and objectives of the Cooperative Program of Health and Sanitation.

Unexpended funds, etc.

g) All funds or property acquired by the Oficina which may be

unexpended , unused or unassigned at the termination of the period

covered by this Extension , shall remain the property of the Government of Venezuela and be used in furtherance of the purposes of the

Cooperative Program. However, to attain the objectives of the Coop-

erative Program, the Minister and the Chief of Party will mutually

decide what to do with the unexpended , unused and unassigned funds

or property at the expiration of this Agreement.

Use of funds for salaries and other ex- h) By mutual agreement between the Minister and the Chief of

penses.

Party, funds of the Oficina may be used to reimburse or defray the

salaries, living expenses, travel and transportation costs and other

expenses of such additional members of the Institute Field Party and

other Institute employees in Venezuela as the parties see fit. Such

funds may be contributed or granted for such purposes by the Oficina

to the Institute or to any other organization, but in every case the

Minister and the Chief of Party will enter into a written Project

Agreement setting forth the scope and other necessary terms of such contributions or grants.

61 STAT. ] VENEZUELA-HEALTH AND SANITATION- JUNE 30, 1947

3281

Fourth: The Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program shall continue to consist of individual Projects , the principal objectives of which shall be the construction and installation of water supply systems in rural communities in Venezuela and other purposes affecting the health and sanitation of the public of Venezuela . Each Project shall

Project Agreements.

be embodied in a Project Agreement which shall be mutually agreed upon and signed by the Minister of Health and Social Assistance and

the Chief of Party in Venezuela . The Project Agreement shall define
the kind of work to be done, the allocation of funds therefor, the parties responsible for the execution of the Project, and such other
matters as the parties deem necessary to include. Determination of
Fifth : Plans to carry out the Cooperative Health and Sanitation plans,etc.
Program and procedures to be followed for the development of said

plans and administrative matters pertaining to the Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública , shall be determined by mutual agreement between the Ministry of Health and Social Assistance and

the Chief of Party in Venezuela. Sixth: Contracts executed by the Oficina for carrying out Project
Agreements , as well as all disbursements of the Oficina funds, shall

Contracts, personnel, etc.

be previously authorized by its Director . The selection of personnel for the Oficina shall be made by mutual agreement between the Director of the Oficina and the Ministry of Health and Social Assistance and appointments shall be made by Ministerial resolution.
Seventh: Authorized representatives of the Government of Venezuela and the Institute shall have access , at any time, to the books,

Inspection of books, etc.; reports.

documents and accounts of the Oficina for their inspection and auditing, and the Director of the Oficina shall render reports to the Government of Venezuela and to the Institute at such intervals as may be

agreed upon between the Chief of Party and the Ministry of Health and Social Assistance.
Eighth: The Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública,

Rights and privileges

as a dependency of the Ministry of Health and Social Assistance,

shall enjoy the rights and privileges granted by law to similar official

departments, among them, postage and telegraphic franchises , and

discounts allowed by transportation companies ; and exoneration of

custom duties shall be granted to the Oficina Cooperativa Interame-

ricana de Salud Pública to the extent of those enjoyed by other Depart-

ments, on any materials imported to be used in the development of

the Cooperative Program, and the Ministry shall examine the impor-

tation schedules as it does in the case of other departments .

Ninth: The Government of the United States of Venezuela recog-

Tax, etc., exemption.

nizes the Institute of Inter-American Affairs as an entity of the

United States Government. The representatives of the Institute shall be exempt from Income Tax on those amounts received from the United States Government as remuneration ; and its importations

to be used for the development of the Health and Sanitation Program

shall be exonerated from custom duties.

Tenth: The Minister of Health and Social Assistance, the Chief of

Delegation of powers .

Party and the Director of the Oficina, whenever possible, may dele-

gate the powers granted in this Extension Agreement, to duly author-

ized representatives.

3282
57 Stat. 1126. 58 Stat. 1446.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
Eleventh: The provisions of the Original Modus Vivendi and the first Extension Agreement (June 1944 to December 1946) will remain in force with the exception of any provisions that may have been directly or indirectly cancelled by this Agreement.
Your Excellency's note which sets forth the foregoing stipulations and this reply constitute an agreement with respect to the extension of the Cooperative Program of Health and Sanitation.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
THOMAS J. MALEADY Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
His Excellency Dr. CARLOS MORALES , Encargado ofthe Ministry of Foreign Relations, Caracas.

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-MILITARY ASSISTANCE--MAR. 21, 1947

3283

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines respecting military assistance to the Philippines. Signed at Manila March 21 , 1947; entered into force March 21, 1947; effective from July 4, 1946.

March 21, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1662]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES ON MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO THE PHILIPPINES

Considering the desire of the Government of the Republic of the

Philippines to obtain assistance in the training and development of its

armed forces and the procurement of equipment and supplies therefor

during the period immediately following the independence of the

Philippines, considering the Agreement between the United States of

America and the Republic of the Philippines concerning military bases,

signed March 14, 1947, and in view of the mutual interest of the two

61 Stat . , Pt . 4, p. 4019.

Governments in matters of common defense, the President of the

United States of America has authorized the rendering of military

assistance to the Republic of the Philippines towards establishing and maintaining national security and towards forming a basis for par-

ticipation by that Government in such defensive military operations as the future may require, and to attain these ends the Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines

have agreed as follows:

TITLE I

PURPOSE AND DURATION

ARTICLE 1. Subject to mutual agreements , the Government of the United States of America will furnish military assistance to the Government of the Republic of the Philippines in the training and development of armed forces and in the performance of other services essential to the fulfillment of those obligations which may devolve upon the Republic of the Philippines under its international agreements including commitments assumed under the United Nations and to the maintenance of the peace and security of the Philippines, as provided in Title II, Article 6, hereof.
ARTICLE 2.- This Agreement shall continue for a period of five years from July 4, 1946 unless previously terminated or extended as hereinafter provided .
ARTICLE 3. - If the Government of the Republic of the Philippines should desire that this Agreement be extended beyond the stipulated period , it shall make a written proposal to that effect at least one year before the expiration of this Agreement.

Duration.

3284

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ARTICLE 4.-This Agreement may be terminated before the expira-

tion of the period of five years prescribed in Article 2 , or before the

expiration of an extension authorized in Article 3, by either Govern-

ment, subject to three months ' written notice to the other Govern-

U. S. title to designated arms, etc.

ment . ARTICLE 5.-It is agreed on the part of the Government of the
Republic of the Philippines that title to all arms , vessels , aircraft,

equipment and supplies , expendable items excepted , that are furnished

under this Agreement on a non-reimbursable basis shall remain in the United States of America .

TITLE II

GENERAL

"Militaryassistance." ARTICLE 6. For the purposes of this Agreement the military

assistance authorized in Article 1 hereof is defined as the furnishing

of arms , ammunition, equipment and supplies ; certain aircraft and

naval vessels , and instruction and training assistance by the Army

U. S. Military Advisory Group.

and Navy of the United States and shall include the following : (a) Establishing in the Philippines of a United States Military
Advisory Group composed of an Army group , a Navy group and an

Air group to assist and advise the Republic of the Philippines on

Training equipment, etc.

military and naval matters ; (b) Furnishing from United States sources equipment and technical
supplies for training, operations and certain maintenance of Philippine

armed forces of such strength and composition as mutually agreed

upon ;

(c) Facilitating the procurement by the Government of the Republic

of the Philippines of a military reserve of United States equipment and

supplies, in such amounts as may be subsequently agreed upon ;

(d) Making available selected facilities of United States Army and

Navy training establishments to provide training for key personnel of

the Philippine armed forces, under the conditions hereinafter described .

TITLE III

Personnel. Functions. Rank, pay, etc.

MILITARY ADVISORY GROUP
ARTICLE 7. - The Military Advisory Group shall consist of such number of United States military personnel as may be agreed upon by the Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines.
ARTICLE 8. - The functions of the Military Advisory Group shall be to provide such advice and assistance to the Republic of the Philippines as has been authorized by the Congress of the United States of America and as is necessary to accomplish the purposes set forth in Article 1 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 9. -Each member of the Military Advisory Group shall continue as a member of the branch of the armed forces of the United States to which he belongs and serve with that group in the rank, grade or rating he holds in the armed forces of the United States and

61 STAT.] PHILIPPINES-MILITARY ASSISTANCE-MAR. 21 , 1947

3285

shall wear the uniform thereof, as provided in current regulations. Officers and enlisted men so detailed are authorized to accept from the Government of the Republic of the Philippines offices and such pay and emoluments thereunto appertaining as may be offered by that Government and approved by the appropriate authorities of the United States, such compensation to be accepted by the United States Government for remittance to the individual if in the opinion of the appropriate authorities of the United States such course appears desirable .

ARTICLE 10.- Members of the Military Advisory Group shall serve under the direction of the authorities of the United States of America .
ARTICLE 11. -All members of the Group shall be on active duty and

Pay and allowances.

shall be paid regularly authorized pay and allowances by the Government of the United States of America, plus a special allowance to compensate for increased costs of living. This special allowance shall

Special allowance.

be based upon a scale agreed upon by the Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines and shall be revised periodically. The Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall reimburse the Government of the United States of America

for the special allowances provided for in this Article. The special allowance shall be applicable for the entire period each member of

the group resides in the Philippines on duty with the Group , except

as specified elsewhere in this Agreement . ARTICLE 12.-The Government of the Republic of the Philippines
agrees to extend to the Military Advisory Group the same exemptions

Exemptions and privileges.

and privileges granted by Articles V, XII and XVIII of the Agreement

Between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines Concerning Military Bases, signed March 14 , 1947.
ARTICLE 13.-Except as may be otherwise subsequently agreed by

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , ppT.r4a0v2e2l, 4e0x2p4e,n4s0e2s7..

the two Governments , the expense of the cost of transportation of

each member of the Military Advisory Group, his dependents , house-

hold effects , and belongings to and from the Philippines shall be borne

by the Government of the United States of America to the extent authorized by law. Members of the Group shall be entitled to com-

pensation for expenses incurred in travel in the Republic of the Philip-

pines on official business of the Group and such expenses shall be reimbursed to the Government of the United States of America by the Government of the Republic of the Philippines except for expenses

of travel by the transportation facilities of the Group. ARTICLE 14. - The Government of the Republic of the Philippines
shall provide , and defray the cost of, suitable living quarters for personnel of the Military Advisory Group and their families and suit-

Living and office quarters.

able buildings and office space for use in the conduct of the official

business of the Military Advisory Group . All living and office

quarters shall conform to the standards prescribed by the United

States military services for similar quarters.

Official supplies and Official supplies and equipment.

equipment of American manufacture required by the Group shall be

furnished by the Government of the United States of America which

shall be reimbursed for the cost thereof by the Government of the 95347 ° 49-- PT. III- -64

3286

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT,

Republic of the Philippines . Official supplies and equipment of

Cost of services.

other than American manufacture shall be provided without cost by the Government of the Republic of the Philippines. The cost of

all services required by the Group , including compensation of locally

employed interpreters , clerks , laborers , and other personnel, except

personal servants , shall be borne by the Government of the Republic

of the Philippines.

Communications

involving matters of ARTICLE 15.-All communications between the Military Advisory

policy.

Group and the Republic of the Philippines involving matters of

policy shall be through the Ambassador of the United States of

America to the Philippines or the Chargé d'Affaires .

ARTICLE 16 (a ) .- The provisions of Articles XIII and XXI of the

pp6.140S25t,a40t28. Pt . 4, Agreement of March 14 , 1947 between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines Concerning Military Bases are

applicable to the Military Advisory Group , it being agreed that the

Headquarters of the Military Advisory Group will be considered a

temporary installation under the provisions of Article XXI of the

Diplomatic nity.

immu-

Agreement aforementioned . (b) The Chief of the Military Advisory Group , and not to exceed
six (6) other senior members of the group to be designated by him,

will be accorded diplomatic immunity.

TITLE IV

LOGISTICAL ASSISTANCE

Supplies, etc.

services,

ARTICLE 17.-The decision as to what supplies , services, facilities , equipment and naval vessels are necessary for military assistance shall be made by agreement between the appropriate authorities of the United States and the Republic of the Philippines.

ARTICLE 18.- Certain initial equipment, supplies and maintenance

items shall be furnished gratuitously by the United States in accord-

ance with detailed arrangements to be mutually agreed upon . Addi-

tional equipment and supplies other than those surplus to the needs of

the United States required in the furtherance of military assistance

shall be furnished by the United States subject to reimbursement by

the Republic of the Philippines on terms to be mutually agreed

upon . All items of arms , munitions, equipment and supplies originat-

ing from sources other than those surplus to the needs of the United

Nonrelinquishment by Philippines of arms, etc.

States shall be furnished only when the requisite funds have been specifically appropriated by the Congress of the United States.
ARTICLE 19. --The Government of the Republic of the Philippines agrees that it will not relinquish physical possession or pass the title

to any and all arms , munitions , equipment , supplies , naval vessels and

Procurement of military equipment, etc.

aircraft furnished under this Agreement without the specific consent of the Government of the United States.
ARTICLE 20. -Military equipment, supplies and naval vessels necessary in connection with the carrying out of the full program of

61 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES MILITARY ASSISTANCE-MAR. 21, 1947

3287

military assistance to the Republic of the Philippines shall be provided from United States and Philippine sources in so far as practicable and the Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall procure arms, ammunition , military equipment and naval vessels from governments or agencies other than the United States of America only on the basis of mutual agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of the Philippines. The Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall procure United States military equipment, supplies and naval vessels only as mutually agreed upon.
TITLE V
TRAINING ASSISTANCE

ARTICLE 21.-As part of the program of military assistance the Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall be permitted to send selected students to designated technical and service schools of the ground , naval and air services of the United States. Such students shall be subject to the same regulations as are United States students and may be returned to the Philippines , without substitution , for violation of such regulations . Numbers of students and detailed arrangements shall be mutually agreed upon and shall be kept at a minimum for essential requirements . All Philippine requests for military training of Filipino personnel shall be made to the Government of the United States through the Military Advisory Group.

TITLE VI

SECURITY

ARTICLE

22.- Disclosures

and

exchanges

of

classified

military

Equipment and in formation .

equipment and information of any security classification to or between

the Government of the United States of America and the Government

of the Republic of the Philippines will be with the mutual under-

standing that the equipment and information will be safeguarded in accordance with the requirements of the military security classification established thereon by the originating Government and that no redisclosure by the recipient Government of such equipment and information to third governments or unauthorized personnel will be made without specific approval of the originating Government.
ARTICLE 23. So long as this Agreement, or any extension thereof, is in effect the Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall not

Personnel.

engage or accept the services of any personnel of any Government other than the United States of America for duties of any nature connected with the Philippine armed forces , except by mutual agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of the Philippines.

3288

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
TITLE VII
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Undersigned , duly authorized thereto , have signed this Agreement in duplicate, in the City of Manila, this twenty-first day of March, 1947.
For the Government of the United States of America;

PAUL V. MCNUTT Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipoten-
tiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines
For the Government of the Republic of the Philippines:
Jnanne. Poxas. MANUEL ROXAS
President of the Philippines

61 STAT. ] GUATEMALA- UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES-AUG. 29, 1947

3289

Agreement between the United States of America and Guatemala respecting United States armed forces in Guatemala. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Guatemala August 29, 1947; entered into force August 29, 1947.

August 29, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1663]

The American Ambassador to the Guatemalan Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs

No. 213

GUATEMALA, August 29, 1947.

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have taken place between representatives of the Government of the United States

of America and representatives of the Government of Guatemala regarding paragraph 7 of the Resolution on the Principles Governing the General Regulation and Reduction of Armaments , [' ] adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 14 , 1946 .
It is the understanding of the Government of the United States of

America that , in order to eliminate any question regarding conformity with paragraph 7 of the above-mentioned Resolution, the two Governments agree as follows:

(1 ) The members of the armed forces of the United States of America now stationed in the territory of Guatemala have been and are so stationed with the full and freely given consent of the Government of Guatemala.
(2) The Government of Guatemala consents that those armed forces continue to be so stationed until such time as the Government of Guatemala withdraws its consent thereto or until the treaties of peace with the Axis powers are signed .
(3) The number of men, members of those armed forces, who are now so stationed is less than one hundred and they are not combat troops. The presence of those men is already covered by previous arrangements between the two Governments.

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that this note, together with your note in reply, will be considered by the Government of the United States of America as placing on record the understanding of the two Governments in regard to this matter.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
EDWIN J. KYLE His Excellency
Licenciado ARTURO HERBRUGER ASTURIAS, Under Secretaryfor Foreign Affairs, In Charge ofthe Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Guatemala .

1¹ [United Nations. Resolutions adopted by the General Assembly during the Second Part ofits First Session from 23 October to 15 December 1946, pp . 66 and 67. Lake Success, 1947.]

3290

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

The Guatemalan Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES REPUBLICA DE GUATEMALA SECCION DIPLOMATICA

032

GUATEMALA, 29 de agosto de 1947.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR:

Tengo la honra de referirme a la nota de Vuestra Excelencia, Número 213 , de esta fecha, alusiva a las conversaciones celebradas entre los representantes del Gobierno de Guatemala y del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América , con respecto al párrafo 7 de la Resolución de Principios que rigen el Reglamento General y la Reducción de Armamentos, adoptada por la Asamblea General de las Naciones Unidas el 14 de diciembre de 1946.

En esa virtud, en nombre de mi Gobierno, tengo el honor de confirmar tal entendido del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América y de que, para eliminar cualquier cuestión relativa a la conformidad con el párrafo 7 de la Resolución arriba mencionada, los dos Gobiernos convienen en lo que sigue:

(1) Los miembros de las fuerzas armadas de los Estados Unidos de América que se encuentran actualmente acantonadas en territorio de Guatemala, han sido y están estacionadas con el libre y completo consentimiento del Gobierno de Guatemala.
(2) El Gobierno de Guatemala consiente en que dichas fuerzas armadas continúen acantonadas en el país hasta el momento en que el Gobierno de Guatemala suspenda su consentimiento al efecto , o bien hasta que se firmen los tratados de Paz.
(3) El número de individuos , miembros de dichas fuerzas armadas, que se encuentran actualmente estacionadas es de menos de cien y no son tropa de combate. La presencia de esos hombres está ya amparada por arreglos previos entre los dos Gobiernos.

Tengo la honra de informar a Vuestra Excelencia que esta nota, juntamente con la Vuestra que contesto , se considerarán como ratificación del entendido de los dos Gobiernos en relación con el asunto de que se trata.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para renovar al señor Embajador , las seguridades de mi más alta consideración .
ARTURO HERBRUGER . Subsecretario
Encargado del Despacho Excelentísimo señor EDWIN J. KYLE,
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Ciudad.-

61 STAT. ] GUATEMALA--UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES--AUG. 29, 1947

3291

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA DIPLOMATIC SECTION
032

GUATEMALA, August 29, 1947.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's note, Number 213, of this date, relative to the conversations which took place between the representatives of the Government of Guatemala and the Govern-

ment of the United States of America, with respect to paragraph 7 of

the Resolution on Principles governing General Regulation and Reduction of Armaments, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 14, 1946.

By virtue thereof, in the name of my Government, I have the honor to confirm the understanding on the part of the Government of the United States of America and to state that, in order to eliminate any question as to conformity with paragraph 7 of the above-mentioned

Resolution, the two Governments agree upon the following :

(1 ) The members of the armed forces of the United States of America which are quartered at the present time in Guatemalan territory, have been and are stationed with the free and complete consent of the Government of Guatemala .
(2) The Government of Guatemala consents to the said armed forces continuing to be quartered in the country until such time as the Government of Guatemala withdraws its consent with respect thereto, or until the Peace treaties are signed.
(3) The number of persons, members of the said armed forces, who are stationed at the present time is less than one hundred and they are not combat troops. The presence of those men is already provided for by previous arrangements between the two Governments.

Ante, p. 3289.

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that this note, together with your note to which I am replying, shall be considered as ratification of the understanding of the two Governments with respect to the matter under consideration.
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to you , Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my highest consideration.
ARTURO HERBRUGER. Under Secretary
in charge of the Ministry
His Excellency EDWIN J. KYLE,
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, City .

3292

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

August 14, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1664]

Memorandum of understanding between the United States of America, France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and Italy respecting the liquidation of German property in Italy. Signed at Washington August 14, 1947; entered into force August 14, 1947.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

Between the Governments of France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America on the one hand, and the Government of Italy on the other hand, regarding German assets in Italy.

With reference to Article 77, paragraph 5, of the Treaty of Peace

p.611403S.tat . , Pt . 2 , with Italy, the Government of Italy on the one hand and the Governments of France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern

Post, p. 3294.

Ireland , and the United States of America on the other hand have entered into the following understanding, including the Annexes

attached hereto and made a part of this Memorandum of Understand-

ing, with respect to German assets of whatsoever nature in Italy:

1. The Government of Italy will take appropriate measures to as-

Assets to be liquidated .

certain what German assets in Italy are not presently under administration .
2. The Government of Italy will take all necessary measures to

effect the prompt sale or liquidation of all assets in Italy belonging directly or indirectly to (a) German individuals in Germany or corpora-

tions or other organizations organized under the laws of Germany;

(b) the German state and German municipalities and state, federal ,

municipal, or other governmental authorities ; (c ) German Nazi organi-

Exceptions.

zations ; and (d ) German individuals already repatriated or to be repatriated to Germany. Exceptions to these categories should be

made in the case of (a) assets of individuals deprived of life or sub-

stantially deprived of liberty pursuant to any law, decree, or regulation discriminating against political, racial , or religious groups ; (b)

assets belonging to religious bodies or private charitable institutions and used exclusively for religious or charitable purposes ; (c) assets of a

corporation or any other organization organized under the laws of

Germany to the extent that they are not beneficially German-owned ;

(d) assets released under an intercustodial agreement with another

"Germany."

government; and (e) assets coming within the jurisdiction of Italy as a result of resumption of trade with Germany. The term "Germany" shall be defined as the Germany within the boundaries of that country

as of December 31 , 1937. Action with respect to German-owned

trademarks and patents shall be held in abeyance pending separate representations .

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-GERMAN PROPERTY IN ITALY--AUG . 14, 1947

3293

3. The Government of Italy will dispose of German assets only to Disposition ofassets.

non-German nationals and with maximum safeguards to insure against

their eventual return to German ownership or control. 4. The Government of Italy will credit the proceeds of liquidation
of the assets to a special account to be held for such disposition as may

Special account.

subsequently be determined in accordance with Article 77, paragraph 5 ,

61 Stat . , Pt . 2 ,

of the Treaty of Peace with Italy.

p. 1403.

Committee to insure 5. The Government of Italy will execute the foregoing in collabora- collaboration.

tion with the Governments of France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America . To insure such collaboration , there will be established a Committee com-

posed of one representative of each of the four Governments, which will meet at or near the seat of the Government of Italy. Chairmanship of this Committee will be rotated among the members in an order determined by the Committee. This Committee will operate

by majority vote , establish its own rules of procedure, and take all action necessary to carry out the following functions :

Functions .

A. To instruct the Agency of the Government of Italy charged with administering the program for control and liquidation of German assets in Italy as to policies and procedures to be followed in such program ; such instruction to include, but not by way of limitation :

(1) Direction in the techniques and procedures for obtaining a census of all German assets in Italy;
(2) Direction that investigations be made in particular cases by the Agency with a view to uncovering hidden or cloaked German assets in Italy. In conjunction therewith the Committee shall place at the disposal of the Agency all available information and documentary evidence likely to facilitate the accomplishment of its task ;

B. To review in advance of consummation all sales of German assets to insure that the proposed sales are in accord with the national interests of the four Governments, taking into account the objectives of precluding the return of German external assets to German ownership or control and of favoring freedom of trade.
6. The Committee may determine that the expenses, or any part of them, incurred by it, except the expenses of the respective representatives on the Committee, shall be a charge on the proceeds of such assets.
7. The Agency will keep the Committee fully informed of the Agency's activities. It will furnish to the Committee all information requested concerning the census and status of German assets, and in particular it will seek the instructions of the Committee before making any decisions materially affecting the status of German assets under its administration .
8. The Agency will formulate the terms and conditions of sale or other disposition of German property, subject to review by the Committee.

Expenses. Information . Terms ofsale, etc.

3294 Entry into force. Valid languages.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
9. This Memorandum of Understanding shall enter into force upon the day it is signed .
Done at Washington in quadruplicate in the English, French and Italian languages , each of which shall have equal validity , this 14th day of August, 1947.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF FRANCE : FRANCIS LACOSTE

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND :
J. H. MAGOWAN

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : ROBERT A LOVETT

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF ITALY : LOMBARDO

"Asset." Disputes .

ANNEX 1
For the purposes of this understanding the term "asset" as used herein refers , but not by way of limitation, to any real property or interest therein, enterprise (commercial, industrial, financial, or scientific) , security or interest therein, corporate and contractual licenses and arrangements, insurance policies and reinsurance contracts, bank accounts and deposits, including trusteeship accounts, safe deposit boxes, vaults, checks , drafts, credits , gold and other precious metals, options and any other types of arrangements and undertakings , written or unwritten .
ANNEX 2
Any dispute concerning the interpretation or execution of this understanding, which is not settled by direct diplomatic negotiations , shall be referred to a body composed of one representative each of the Governments of France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and the United States of America. Any such dispute not resolved by them within a period of two months shall, unless the parties to the dispute mutually agree upon another means of settlement , be referred at the request of either party to the dispute to a Commission composed of one representative of each party and a third member selected by mutual agreement of the two parties from nationals of a third country. Should the two parties fail to agree within a period of one month upon the appointment of the third member, the Secretary-General of the United Nations may be requested by either party to make the appointment . The decision of the majority of the members of the Commission shall be the decision of the Commission, and shall be accepted by the parties as definitive and binding.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN PROPERTY IN ITALY-AUG. 14, 1947

3295

MEMORANDUM D'ACCORD
Entre les Gouvernements de la République française, du RoyaumeUni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord, et des Etats-Unis d'Amérique du Nord d'une part , et le Gouvernement italien d'autre part, à l'égard des avoirs allemands en Italie.
Se référant à l'article 77, paragraphe 5 , du Traité de Paix avec l'Italie , le Gouvernement italien d'une part et les Gouvernements de la République française, du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord, et des Etats-Unis d'Amérique du Nord d'autre part ont conclu l'arrangement suivant, dont les Annexes ci-jointes font partie intégrante, à l'égard des avoirs allemands de quelque nature qu'ils soient se trouvant en Italie :
1. Le Gouvernement italien prendra toutes mesures appropriés pour déterminer quels sont les avoirs allemands en Italie qui ne font actuellement l'objet d'aucune mesure administrative.
2. Le Gouvernement italien prendra toutes mesures nécessaires pour effectuer sans délai la vente ou la liquidation de tous avoirs en Italie appartenant directement ou indirectement (a) à des ressortissants allemands en Allemagne ou à des sociétés ou à d'autres organisations constituées sous le régime des lois allemandes ; (b ) à l'Etat allemand, et à des municipalités allemandes, ainsi qu'à des autorités nationales, fédérales , municipales ou à d'autres autorités publiques allemandes ; (c) à des organisations nazies allemandes ; et (d ) à des ressortissants allemands qui ont déjà été ou qui seront rapatriés en Allemagne . Exception doit être faite à ces catégories en ce qui concerne (a) les avoirs de personnes ayant perdu la vie ou une grande partie de leur liberté par suite de l'application de toute loi , de tout décret ou de tout règlement établissant des discriminations contre certains groupes en raison de leurs opinions politiques, de leur race ou de leur religion ; (b ) les avoirs appartenent à des institutions religieuses ou à des institutions philanthropiques privées et servant exclusivement à des fins religieuses ou philanthropiques ; (c ) les avoirs de toutes société ou de toute autre organisation constituée sous le régime des lois allemandes dans la mesure où le bénéfice de ces avoirs ne revient pas à des personnes de nationalité allemande ; (d ) les avoirs cédés aux termes d'un accord entre séquestres avec un autre gouvernement; et (e) les avoirs tombant sous la juridiction de l'Italie par suite de la reprise du commerce avec l'Allemagne. Le terme "Allemagne sera défini comme signifiant l'Allemagne telle qu'elle était délimitée par ses frontières au 31 décembre 1937. Toute action relative aux marques de fabrique et aux brevets appartenant à des Allemands restera en suspens jusqu'à ce que des propositions spéciales soient faites à leur sujet .
3. Le Gouvernement italien ne cédera des avoirs allemands qu'à des personnes de nationalité non-allemande et avec le maximum de

3296

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
garanties pour empêcher que ces biens redeviennent éventuellement propriété allemande ou retombent sous contrôle allemand .
4. Le Gouvernement italien versera le produit de la liquidation des avoirs à un compte spécial où il sera conservé en vue de telle disposition qui sera ultérieurement arrêtée conformément à l'article 77, paragraphe 5 , du Traité de Paix avec l'Italie.
5. Le Gouvernement italien exécutera les clauses ci-dessus en collaboration avec les Gouvernements de la République française, du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord , et des Etats-Unis d'Amérique du Nord. Afin d'assurer cette collaboration, un Comité, composé d'un représentant de chacun des quatre Gouvernements, sera constitué. Il se réunira au siège du Gouvernement italien ou à proximité. La présidence dudit Comité sera assurée à tour de rôle par chacun des membres dans l'ordre déterminé par le Comité. Le Comité prendra ses décisions à la majorité établira son propre Règlement, et prendra toutes les mesures nécessaires à l'accomplissement des fonctions suivantes:
A. Donner à l'Agence du Gouvernement italien chargé de l'administration du programme de contrôle et de liquidation des avoirs allemands en Italie des directives relatives à l'exécution dudit programme ; ces directives devant comprendre, sans que cette énumération doive être considérée comme limitative:
(1 ) des instructions sur les moyens techniques et la procédure à appliquer pour obtenir le recensement de tous les avoirs allemands en Italie ;
(2 ) des instructions chargeant l'Agence d'effectuer, dans certains cas, des enquêtes tendant à découvrir des avoirs allemands cachés ou dissimulés en Italie . A cet effet le Comité fournira à l'Agence tous renseignements et documents probatoires dont il dispose et qui sont de nature à faciliter l'accomplissement de sa tâche ; B. Examiner avant leur réalisation toutes ventes d'avoirs allemands afin de vérifier que ces ventes sont conformes aux intérêts nationaux des quatre Gouvernements , en vue , d'une part , d'empêcher que les avoirs allemands à l'étranger redeviennent propriété allemande ou retombent sous contrôle allemand et, d'autre part, de favoriser la liberté du commerce.
6. Le Comité pourra décider que tout ou partie des dépenses encourues par lui, à l'exception des dépenses de chacun des représentants au Comité, seront imputées sur le produit de la vente de ces avoirs .
7. L'Agence tiendra le Comité pleinement informé de son activité. Il fournira au Comité tous le renseignements qui lui seront demandés en ce qui concerne le recensement et le statut des avoirs allemands , et en particulier il sollicitera les instructions du Comité avant de prendre quelque décision que ce soit affectant matériellement le statut des avoirs allemands relevant de son administration.
8. L'Agence arrêtera les termes et conditions de la vente ou d'autre disposition des avoirs allemands, sous réserve de revision par le Comité.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - GERMAN PROPERTY IN ITALY--AUG . 14, 1947
9. Ce mémorandum d'Accord entrera en vigueur le jour de sa signature.
Fait à Washington en quatre exemplaires en langue anglaise , française et italienne , dont chacune fera également foi, ce 14 jour du mois de août 1947.
POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE FRANÇAISE : FRANCIS LACOSTE
POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DU ROYAUME-UNI DE GRANDE-BRETAGNE ET D'IRLANDE DU NORD :
J. H. MAGOWAN
POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE DU NORD :
ROBERT A LOVETT
POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT ITALIEN : LOMBARDO
ANNEXE 1
Il est entendu que le terme "avoirs" tel qu'il est ici employé s'applique, mais d'une manière non restrictive, à tous biens immobiliers ou participations à ces biens, entreprises (commerciales , industrielles, financières ou scientifiques) , valeurs mobilières ou participation à ces valeurs, pouvoirs ou mandats et arrangements statutaires et contractuels , polices d'assurance et contrats de réassurance, comptes en banque et dépôts, y compris comptes d'administrateurs , coffres-forts , chambres fortes, chèques, traites, soldes créditeurs , or et autres métaux précieux , options et toutes autres formes d'arrangements et engagements , écrits ou non écrits.
ANNEXE 2
Tout différend relatif à l'interprétation ou à l'exécution du présent arrangement , qui n'aura pas été réglé par voie de négociations diplomatiques directes, sera soumis à un conseil composé d'un représentant de chacun des gouvernements de la République française, du RoyaumeUni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord, et des EtatsUnis d'Amérique du Nord . Tout différend de cette nature que ces représentants n'auraient pu régler dans un délai de deux mois sera, à moins que les parties au différend ne conviennent d'un autre mode de règlement , soumis à la requête de l'une ou l'autre des parties au différend à une commission composée d'un représentant de chaque partie et d'un tiers membre choisi d'un commun accord entre les deux parties parmi les ressortissants d'un pays tiers . A défaut d'accord dans un délai d'un mois entre les deux parties sur la désignation du tiers membre, l'une ou l'autre partie pourra demander au Secrétaire Général des Nations Unies de procéder à cette désignation. La décision de la majorité des membres de la commission sera considérée comme décision de la commission et acceptée par les parties comme définitive et obligatoire.

3297

3298

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

MEMORANDUM D'INTESA
tra i Governi di Francia, del Regno Unito di Gran Bretagna e Nord Irlanda e degli Stati Uniti D'America da una parte e il Governo d'Italia dall'altra parte, in merito ai beni tedeschi in Italia.
Con riferimento all'articolo 77 , paragrafo 5 del Trattato di Pace con l'Italia, il Governo d'Italia da una parte e i Governi di Francia, del Regno Unito di Gran Bretagna e Nord Irlanda e degli Stati Uniti d'America dall'altra parte, hanno concordato la seguente intesa, inclusi gli annessi allegati che sono considerati parte integrante di questo memorandum d'intesa, in merito ai beni tedeschi di qualsiasi natura in Italia:
1. Il Governo italiano prendera' le misure del caso per accertare quali beni tedeschi in Italia non si trovano al momento presente sotto alcuna amministrazione .
2. Il Governo italiano prendera ' le necessarie misure per effettuare la sollecita vendita o liquidazione di tutti quei beni in Italia, che direttamente o indirettamente appartengono a:
(a) Persone tedesche in Germania o Societa' o altre organizzazioni formatesi sotto le leggi tedesche ;
(b) Lo Stato e municipalita ' tedesche e le autorita' tedesche statali, municipali , federali o di altra natura ;
(c) Organizzazioni tedesche naziste ; e (d) Persone tedesche gia ' rimpatriate o da essere rimpatriate in Germania. Eccezioni a queste categorie dovrebbero essere fatte nei casi di:
(a) beni di individui privati di vita o sostanzialmente privati di liberta' conformemente a qualunque legge , decreto o regolamento discriminante contro gruppi politici, razziali o religiosi ;
(b) beni appartenenti a istituzioni religiose o istituti privati di carita' ed usati esclusivamente per scopi religiosi o di carita' ;
(c) beni di una Societa' oppure qualunque altra organizzazione formatasi sotto le leggi della Germania, in quanto esse non siano di beneficio a tedeschi malgrado la proprieta' tedesca ;
(d) beni rilasciati in base ad un accordo di amministrazione sequestrataria con un altro Governo; e
(e) beni che siano sotto la giurisdizione dell'Italia come risultato di ripresa di affari commerciali con la Germania . Per termine "Germania " si intende la Germania quale delimitata dai confini di tale Paese al 31 dicembre 1937. Misure relative a marchi di fabbrica e patenti di proprieta ' tedesca saranno dilazionate in attesa di passi separati.

61 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-GERMAN PROPERTY IN ITALY--AUG. 14, 1947
3. Il Governo italiano effettuera' cessione di beni tedeschi solo a cittadini non-tedeschi e prendendo le massime precauzioni per evitare il loro eventuale ritorno in proprieta' o controllo tedesco .
4. Il Governo italiano accreditera' gli introiti derivanti dalla liquidazione dei beni ad uno speciale conto da essere istituito per i provvedimenti che possono essere successivamente determinati in conformita all'articolo #77 , paragrafo 5 del Trattato di Pace con l'Italia.
5. Il Governo italiano eseguira ' quanto predetto in collaborazione coi Governi di Francia, del Regno Unito della Gran Bretagna e Nord Irlanda e degli Stati Uniti d'America . Per assicurare tale collaborazione, sara' istituito un Comitato composto di un rappresentante di ognuno dei quattro Governi che si riunira' nella o vicino alla sede del Governo italiano . La presidenza di tale Comitato sara' alternata tra i membri del Comitato stesso in un ordine da esso determinato . Tale Comitato operera ' in base al sistema di maggioranza dei voti , stabilira' le sue regole di procedura e prendera ' tutte le misure necessarie per l'assolvimento delle seguenti funzioni :
(a ) Dare direttive all'Ente del Governo italiano incaricato di amministrare il programma per il controllo e la liquidazione dei beni tedeschi in Italia secondo le direttive e le procedure da seguire in tale programma ; tali istruzioni includeranno, ma non si limiteranno a:
(1 ) Direttive per la tecnica e le procedure da seguire per ottenere un censimento di tutte le attivita' tedesche in Italia ;
(2) Direttive a che indagini vengono svolte in casi speciali, dall'Ente, con lo scopo di scoprire beni tedeschi nascosti o mascherati in Italia . In relazione a quanto precede il Comitato porra' a disposizione dell'Ente tutte le informazioni disponibili e tutte le prove documentarie allo scopo di facilitare tale compito ;
(b) Esaminare anticipatamente alla loro effettuazione tutte le vendite di beni tedeschi per accertare che le vendite proposte siano in armonia con gli interessi nazionali dei quattro Governi, tenendo conto dello scopo di escludere il ritorno dei beni tedeschi all'estero a proprieta' o controllo tedeschi e di favorire la liberta' di commercio .
6. Il Comitato puo ' determinare che le spese, o qualunque parte di esse, da esso incontrate, ad eccezione delle spese dei rispettivi rappresentanti del Comitato , saranno a carico degli introiti derivanti da tali beni.
7. L'Ente terra ' il Comitato pienamente informato delle attivita' dell'Ente stesso . Esso fornira' al Comitato tutte le informazioni richieste concernenti il censimento e lo "status" delle attivita' tedesche ed in particolare esso cerchera' di ottenere le istruzioni del Comitato prima di prendere alcuna decisione sostanzialmente afferente allo "status" dei beni tedeschi sotto la sua amministrazione .
8. L'Ente formulera' i termini e le condizioni di vendita o altra destinazione dei beni tedeschi , subordinatamente a revisione da parte del Comitato.

3299

3300

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

9. Questo memorandum d'intesa entrera' in vigore nello stesso giorno della sua firma.
Il presente documento viene redatto in Washington in quadruplicato, in lingua inglese, francese e italiana , ciascuna delle quali avra' uguale validita' alla data del 14 agosto 1947 .

PER IL GOVERNO DI FRANCIA : FRANCIS LACOSTE

PER IL GOVERNO ITALIANO: LOMBARDO

PER IL GOVERNO DEL REGNO UNITO DI GRAN BRETAGNA E NORD IRLANDA :
J. H. MAGOWAN

PER IL GOVERNO DEGLI STATI UNITI D'AMERICA : ROBERT A LOVETT

ANNESSO # 1
Ai fini di questo accordo , il termine " beni" come usato, si riferisce, ma non si limita, a qualsiasi proprieta' immobiliare o interesse in essa, impresa (commerciale, industriale, finanziaria o scientifica ) , titoli o interessi in essa , licenze e accordi societari o contrattuali , polizze di assicurazione e contratti di riassicurazione, conti e depositi bancari, includenti conti fiduciari, cassette- depositi e camere di sicurezza, assegni bancari , tratte, crediti , oro ed altri metalli preziosi , opzioni e qualunque altro tipo di accordi ed impegni scritti o non scritti.
ANNESSO #2
Qualunque controversia relativa all'interpretazione o alla esecuzione di questo accordo , che non sia stata regolata per via di negoziati diplomatici diretti , sara' sottoposta ad un organismo composto di un rappresentante di ognuno dei Governi di Francia, del Regno Unito di Gran Bretagna e Nord Irlanda, e degli Stati Uniti d'America. Qualsiasi controversia di tale natura che essi non avessero ancora regolata entro un termine di due mesi , sara, salvo che le parti in contrasto non si accordino su un altro modo di regolamento , sottoposta , a richiesta dell'una o dell'altra delle parti in disputa, a una commissione composta di un rappresentante di ciascuna delle parti e di un terzo membro scelto di comune accordo fra le due parti , tra i sudditi di un terzo Paese. In difetto di accordo, entro un mese, fra le due parti per la designazione di tale terzo membro , l'una o l'altra parte potra' domandare al Segretario Generale delle Nazioni Unite di procedere a tale designazione. La decisione presa dalla maggioranza dei membri della commissione sara' considerata come decisione della commissione stessa ed accettata dalle parti come definitiva e obbligatoria.

61 STAT. ] U. N.-TRUSTEESHIP FOR PACIFIC ISLANDS- JULY 18, 1947

3301

Agreement approved by the Security Council of the United Nations
April 2, 1947, respecting trusteeship for the former Japanese mandated islands. Approved by the President of the United States of America July 18, 1947, pursuant to authority granted by a joint resolution of the Congress of the United States of America July 18, 1947; entered into force July 18, 1947.

July 18, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1665]

TRUSTEESHIP AGREEMENT FOR THE FORMER JAPANESE MANDATED ISLANDS
APPROVED AT THE ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY-FOURTH MEETING OF THE SECURITY COUNCIL

PREAMBLE
WHEREAS Article 75 of the Charter of the United Nations provides for the establishment of an international trusteeship system for the administration and supervision of such territories as may be placed thereunder by subsequent agreements ; and
WHEREAS under Article 77 of the said Charter the trusteeship system may be applied to territories now held under mandate ; and
WHEREAS ON 17 December 1920 the Council of the League of Nations confirmed a mandate for the former German islands north of the equator to Japan, to be administered in accordance with Article 22 of the Covenant of the League of Nations ; [ ¹ ] and
WHEREAS Japan, as a result of the Second World War, has ceased to exercise any authority in these islands ; Now, THEREFORE, the Security Council of the United Nations, having satisfied itself that the relevant articles of the Charter have been complied with, hereby resolves to approve the following terms of trusteeship for the Pacific Islands formerly under mandate to Japan.

59 Stat. 1048. 59 Stat. 1049.

ARTICLE 1
The Territory of the Pacific Islands, consisting of the islands formerly held by Japan under mandate in accordance with Article 22 of the Covenant of the League of Nations, is hereby designated as a strategic area and placed under the trusteeship system established in the Charter of the United Nations. The Territory of the Pacific Islands is hereinafter referred to as the trust territory.

Trust territory.

ARTICLE 2

The United States of America is designated as the administering authority of the trust territory.

1 [Treaties, Conventions, International Acts, Protocols, and Agreements Between the United States of America and Other Powers, 1910-1923, Vol. III , p. 3342, compiled by C. F. Redmond, Washington, D. C. ]
95347° 49- PT. III- -65

3302

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

ARTICLE 3

Powers of administering authority.

The administering authority shall have full powers of administra-

tion, legislation, and jurisdiction over the territory subject to the

provisions of this agreement, and may apply to the trust territory,

subject to any modifications which the administering authority may consider desirable, such of the laws of the United States as it may

deem appropriate to local conditions and requirements.

ARTICLE 4

59 Stat. 1050. 59 Stat. 1048.

The administering authority, in discharging the obligations of trusteeship in the trust territory, shall act in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, and the provisions of this agreement,
and shall, as specified in Article 83 (2 ) of the Charter, apply the objectives of the international trusteeship system, as set forth in Article 76 of the Charter, to the people of the trust territory.

ARTICLE 5

Maintenance of

peace and security.

In discharging its obligations under Article 76 (a) and Article 84,

59 Stat. 1049, 1050.

of the Charter, the administering authority shall ensure that the trust

territory shall play its part, in accordance with the Charter of the

United Nations, in the maintenance of international peace and secur-

ity. To this end the administering authority shall be entitled :

1. to establish naval, military and air bases and to erect fortifications in the trust territory ;

2. to station and employ armed forces in the territory ; and
3. to make use of volunteer forces, facilities and assistance from the trust territory in carrying out the obligations towards the Security Council undertaken in this regard by the administering authority, as well as for the local defense and the maintenance of law and order within the trust territory.

ARTICLE 6

59 Stat. 1049.

In discharging its obligations under Article 76 (b) of the Charter,

the administering authority shall :

Development of political institutions.

1. foster the development of such political institutions as are suited to the trust territory and shall promote the development of the inhabitants of the trust territory toward self-government or inde-

pendence, as may be appropriate to the particular circumstances of the trust territory and its peoples and the freely expressed wishes of the peoples concerned ; and to this end shall give to the inhabitants of the trust territory a progressively increasing share in the administrative services in the territory ; shall develop their partici-

Economic advancement .

pation in government ; shall give due recognition to the customs of the inhabitants in providing a system of law for the territory ; and shall take other appropriate measures toward these ends ;
2. promote the economic advancement and self- sufficiency of the inhabitants, and to this end shall regulate the use of natural

61 STAT. ] U. N.--TRUSTEESHIP FOR PACIFIC ISLANDS-JULY 18, 1947

3303

resources ; encourage the development of fisheries , agriculture, and industries ; protect the inhabitants against the loss of their lands and resources ; and improve the means of transportation and communication ;

3. promote the social advancement of the inhabitants, and to this end shall protect the rights and fundamental freedoms of all ele-

Social advancement.

ments of the population without discrimination ; protect the health of the inhabitants ; control the traffic in arms and ammunition ,

opium and other dangerous drugs, and alcohol and other spirituous beverages ; and institute such other regulations as may be necessary

to protect the inhabitants against social abuses ; and Educational ad-
4. promote the educational advancement of the inhabitants, and to vancement. this end shall take steps toward the establishment of a general system
of elementary education ; facilitate the vocational and cultural ad-

vancement of the population ; and shall encourage qualified students to pursue higher education, including training on the professional level.

ARTICLE 7

Guarantee of desigIn discharging its obligations under Article 76 ( c) , of the Charter, nated freedoms.
59 Stat. 1049. the administering authority shall guarantee to the inhabitants of the
trust territory freedom of conscience, and, subject only to the require-

ments of public order and security, freedom of speech , of the press , and of assembly ; freedom of worship , and of religious teaching ; and freedom of migration and movement.

ARTICLE 8

1. In discharging its obligations under Article 76 ( d ) of the Charter, as defined by Article 83 ( 2 ) of the Charter, the administering authority, subject to the requirements of security, and the obligation to promote the advancement of the inhabitants, shall accord to nationals of each Member of the United Nations and to companies and associa-

Treatment to be accorded designated natio5n9aSlst,aett.c1.049, 1050.

tions organized in conformity with the laws of such Member, treatment in the trust territory no less favourable than that accorded therein to nationals, companies and associations of any other United Nation except the administering authority.

2. The administering authority shall ensure equal treatment to the Members of the United Nations and their nationals in the
administration of justice.
Traffic rights of air3. Nothing in this Article shall be so construed as to accord traffic craft.

rights to aircraft flying into and out of the trust territory. Such rights shall be subject to agreement between the administering authority and the state whose nationality such aircraft possesses .

4. The administering authority may negotiate and conclude commercial and other treaties and agreements with Members of the United Nations and other states, designed to attain for the inhabit-

Negotiation of treaties, etc.

ants of the trust territory treatment by the Members of the United Nations and other states no less favourable than that granted by them

3304

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

to the nationals of other states. The Security Council may recommend, or invite other organs of the United Nations to consider and recommend, what rights the inhabitants of the trust territory should acquire in consideration of the rights obtained by Members of the United Nations in the trust territory.

ARTICLE 9
Federation with other U. S. territories. The administering authority shall be entitled to constitute the trust
territory into a customs, fiscal, or administrative union or federation
with other territories under United States jurisdiction and to establish common services between such territories and the trust territory where such measures are not inconsistent with the basic objectives of the International Trusteeship System and with the terms of this agreement.

ARTICLE 10

International cooperation.

The administering authority, acting under the provisions of Article

3 of this agreement, may accept membership in any regional advisory

commission, regional authority, or technical organization, or other

voluntary association of states, may co -operate with specialized inter-

national bodies, public or private, and may engage in other forms of international co-operation.

ARTICLE 11

Citizenship.

1. The administering authority shall take the necessary steps to provide the status of citizenship of the trust territory for the inhabitants of the trust territory.

Diplomatic protection.

2. The administering authority shall afford diplomatic and consular

protection to inhabitants of the trust territory when outside the ter-

ritorial limits of the trust territory or of the territory of the admin-

istering authority.

ARTICLE 12

Legislation.

The administering authority shall enact such legislation as may be necessary to place the provisions of this agreement in effect in the trust territory.

ARTICLE 13

59 Stat. 1050, 1051.

The provisions of Articles 87 and 88 of the Charter shall be applicable to the trust territory, provided that the administering authority may determine the extent of their applicability to any areas which may from time to time be specified by it as closed for security reasons.

ARTICLE 14

Application of international conven-

The administering authority undertakes to apply in the trust terri-

tions.

tory the provisions of any international conventions and recommenda-

tions which may be appropriate to the particular circumstances of the

trust territory and which would be conducive to the achievement of

the basic objectives of Article 6 of this agreement.

61 STAT.] U. N.-TRUSTEESHIP FOR PACIFIC ISLANDS--JULY 18, 1947

3305

ARTICLE 15

The terms of the present agreement shall not be altered, amended

Non-alteration of terms.

or terminated without the consent of the administering authority.

ARTICLE 16
The present agreement shall come into force when approved by the Security Council of the United Nations and by the Government of the United States after due constitutional process. [1]

Entry into force.

Certified corrected true copy For the Security Council Affairs Department
Brotite / D. Protitch Director in charge of Security Council Affairs Department
1 [Approved by the Security Council of the United Nations, Apr. 2, 1947 ; and by the Government of the United States of America, July 18, 1947. ]

3306

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

October 6, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1666]

Agreement between the United States of America and Iran respecting a military mission to Iran. Signed at Tehran October 6, 1947; entered into force October 6, 1947.

         

    :                      
    

   .             -    
  -    

    

Extension of serv ices of Mission.
Termination prior to specified time.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN .
In conformity with the request of the Government of Iran to the Government of the United States of America , the President of the United States of America has authorized the appointment of officers and enlisted men of the United States Army to constitute a military mission to Iran udder the conditions specified below:
TITLE I - PURPOSE AND DURATION
Article 1. The purpose of this Mission is to cooperate with the Ministry of War of Iran and with the personnel of the Iranian Army with a view to enhancing the efficiency of the Iranian Army.
Article 2. This agreement shall be effective from the date of signing of the agreement by the accredited representatives of the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Iran and shall continue in force until March 20, 1949, unless sooner terminated or extended as hereinafter provided .
Article 3. If the Government of Iran should desire that the services of the Mission be extended beyond the stipulated period , it shall make a written proposal to that effect prior to September 21 , 1948. The Government of the United States of America agrees to act upon such proposal prior to December 21, 1948.
Article 4. This agreement may be terminated prior to Karch 20, 1949, in the following manner:

-1-

) 

  :

·







 





( 

)

·
 

  

( ) 

)

  





( 

·

    

(

 

 
.

   

       

      

 -                  

             



  .    

     

 

   



61 STAT.]

IRAN-MILITARY MISSION-OCT. 6, 1947

. (

A) By either government subject to three months notice in writing to the other government;
B ) By either government at any time , upon written notice , if that government considers it necessary due to domestic disturbances or foreign hostilities;
C) By the Government of the United States of America at any time upon written notice that the present statutory authority under which this arrangement is concluded has terminated and that Congress has provided no other authority for the continuation of the Mission ;
D) By the recall of the entire personnel of the Mission by the Government of the United States of America in the public interest of the United States of America, without necessity of compliance with provision (A) of the article.
- termT inationh of thise agree mient, however, shall not effect or modify the several obligations of the Government of Iran to the members of the Mission or to their families as set out in Title IV hereof.
TITLE II - COMPOSITION AND PERSONNEL
Article 5. Initially the Mission
shall consist of such numbers of personnel of the United States Army as may be agreed upon by the Minister of War of Iran through his authorized representative in Washington and by - War Det partment h of the Unie ted Sta tes of America The individuals to be assigned shall be those agreed upon by the Minister of War of Iran or his authorized representative and by the War Department of the United States of

· ·

  .                                           
       
  -            .                    
       
                  
      
                                 
--      
   .              
      
    .  -       

3307 Post, p. 3310.

3308

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

  -    

 -     

    .         

                

 .      

      

      

 .

     .                              
      

America or ita authorized representative
TITLE III · DUTIES, RANK, AND PRECEDENCE 
Article 6. Members of the Mission shall be assigned to the Department of the Ministry of War designated the Advisory Department . The Advisory Department shall be organized under a table of organization prepared with the agreement of the Chief of Mission and approved by the Minister of War of Iran. Members of the Mission shall be assigned to position vacancies shown on this table and their assignment shall be
published in Iranian Army General Orders.

,

Chief of Mission.

Article 7. The senior officer of



the Mission shall be appointed Chief of

the Mission . Other members of the

Mission shall be assigned duties by the
Chief of Mission as indicated by the table of organization and approved by the

Minister of War of Iran, or such other duties as may be agreed upon between the Minister of War of Iran and the Chief of the Mission.

Article 8. The duties of the Mission



shall be to advise and assist the Ministry

of war of Iran and its several departments as well as subordinate sections of the

General Staff with respect to plans,

,

problems concoming organization admini strative principles and training methods. These duties involve the principles of

work of the General Start and all departm ments of the Ministry of War in Tehran

and their field agencies except tactical

and strategical plans or operations against a foreign enemy, which are not related to

the duties of the Mission.



Command or staff

Article 9. Members of the Mission

responsibility.

will assume neither command nor staff

responsibility in the Iranian Army.

They may, however, make such official

inspections and investigations as may

-3-

             
 -    

      

 .     

                

      .      

     .                    
 -     

61 STAT.]

IRAN- MILITARY MISSION-OCT. 6, 1947

3309

be necessary and are approved by the Minister of War of Iran and directed by the Chief of the Mission.

Article 10. Each member of the



Mission shall serve in the Mission with

the rank he holds in the United States

Army but shall have precedence over all

Iranian Army officers of the same rank. Each member of the Mission shall be

entitled to all benefits and privileges

which the regulations of the Iranian

Army provide for officers of corres-

ponding rank of the Iranian Army. Members of the Mission shall wear

the United States Army uniform with

a shoulder sleeve insignia indicating

service with the Iranian Army.

Article 11. Members of the Mission

in case of violation of the laws and

regulations of the Iranian Government,

may be separated from the service of the



Iranian Army and in such case will have only the right to draw travel expenses

back to America.

Article 12. In the normal exe-

'cution of their duties as defined in

Article 8 and 9, the Chief of the





Mission, and other members when so

directed by him, are authorized to

visit and inspect any part of the Iranian military establishment, and

officers in authority shall facilitate such inspections and make available

plans, records, reports, and correspondence as required. Members of the

Mission will not concern themselves

with secret matters except when it is essential to their duties and then only

with the approval of the Ministry of War. Each member of the Mission has
the obligation not to divulge or in any way to disclose to any foreign government or any person whatsoever any secret or confidential matter of
which he may have become cognizant

--

                           .                              .                                                (
 -     
        .                
 -     
                             .                      .                 
 -     

Rank, etc.
Uniform . Violation of laws, etc. Inspection, etc.
Secret matters.

3310

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

  .                                                            
 -     
    .                                                                       .                 .                     
 -     
  -   
                   .    

in his capacity as a member of the

Mission. This obligation shall con-

tinue in force after the termination

of the services of the member or the

mission and after the expiration or

·

cancellation of this agreement.

Tax exemption.

TITLE IV · COMPENSATION AND

PERQUISITIES

Article 13. iMembers of the Mission shall receive from the

Government of Iran such fixed annual

compensation and emoluments, pay-

able in American currency or dollar

draft or check, allowances as may be



agreed upon between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Iran for each mem--

ber. Such compensation and emolu-

ments shall be paid in twelve (12)

equal monthly installments, each due and payable on the last day of the month. The compensation and emoluments shall not be subject to any tax, now
or hereafter in effect , of the Government of Iran or of any of its po litical or administrative subdivisions . Should there, however,

at present or while this agreement is in effect, be any taxes that might affect such compensation and emoluments, such taxes shall be borne by the Ministry of War of Iran, in order to comply with the provisions of this Article that the compensation

agreed upon shall be net .

Ante, p. 3307.

Article 14. The compensation and emoluments indicated in the pre-
ceding article shall commence for each member of the Mission upon arrival in Iran and, except as otherwise expressly provided in this agreement, shall continue, following the termination of duty with the Mission, or following the termination of the Mission under Article 4 of this agree-
ment, likewise for the return trip to the United States of America and thereafter for the period of any accumulated leave which may be due

-5-


 

61 STAT. ]

IRAN-MILITARY MISSION-OCT. 6, 1947

3311

the member.
Article 15. The additional compensation and emoluments due for the period of the return trip and accumulated leave shall be paid to each member of the Mission before his departure from Iran and such compensation and emoluments shall be computed for travel by the shortest route usually travelled to the port of entry in the United States of America, regardless of the route and method of travel used by the member of the Mission .
Article 16. During the period of the present national emergency in the United States of America, expense of transportation of each member of the Mission and his household effects,
baggage and automobile from and to .the United States of America shall be paid by the Government of the United States of America. If the period of this agreement extends beyond the date on which the national emergency in the United States of America is terminated, notification of the termination of the national emergency having been communicated to the Government of Iran in writing by the Government of the United States of America, expenses (except in case a member is replaced with less than two years service in the Mission for the convenience of the Government of the United States of America) for transportation of each member of the Mission and his household
effects, baggage and automobile shall be paid by the Government of Iran. First-class accommodations for travel will be furnished the members of the Mission via the shortest usually traveled route between the port of embarkation in the United States of America and their official residance in Iran, both for the outward and return journey.
Article 17. At any time during the
.6

       
     .                                                       )           (                                 .                                        
 -        
      .                                               
 -      





Transportation ex-

penses.

Travel accommodations.


3312

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 Stat.

     .                          .                           .                                                             (  )               (   (                   
 -       
  .              
 -                   ()
                                                     

"Family."

period of this agreement, as may be elected by each member, the family of each member of the Mission shall
be furnished by the Government of Iran with first-class accommodations for
travel , via the shortest usually traveled route between the port of embarkation in the United States of America and the official residence of
the member in Iran, both for the outward and for the return journey.
Throughout this agreement the term "Family" is limited to mean wife and dependent children.

Travel on official business .

Article 18. Compensation for transportation and travel expenses on official business of the Government of
Iran shall be provided by the Government of Iran in accordance with the travel
regulations of the Iranian Army.

Vehicles, aircraft, etc.

Article 19. In addition to the United States Government transportation available to the Mission, the Government of Iran shall place other means of transportation (vehicle and aircraft)
at the disposal of the Mission, when deemed necessary for the performance of official duties and will provide one third of the gasoline and oils required for the United States Govern-
ment vehicles at the disposal of the Mission, as determined by the Chief of the Mission. The number and type of United States Government vehicles
shall be determined by the War Department of the United States of America and
authority is granted for the entry and exit from Iran, in accordance with the existing law, of one United States Army aircraft with crew as considered necessary by the Chief of the Mission, in the performance of official duties, provided that the Chief of the Mission previously informs the Iranian authorities concerned of the matter accord-
ing to existing rules and regulations of Iran. All the United States Government vehicles placed at the disposal of the Mission for operation within Iran will be subject to the laws of Iran,

-7-

·  
-Y-

61 STAT. ]

IRAN-MILITARY MISSION-OCT. 6, 1947

3313

Article 20. The Government of Iran shall provide for members of the Mission suitable office space and facilities such as office equipment, stenographic and clerical help, civilian interpreters and orderlies, as indicated on the table of organisation of the Advisory Department, and shall give necessary assistance for the smooth operation and improvement of the work of the Mission .
Article 21. If any member of the Mission, or any of his family, should die in Iran, the Government of Iran shall have the body transported to such place in the United States of America as the surviving members of the family may decide, but the cost to the Government of Iran shall not exceed the cost of transporting the remains from the place of decease to New York City. Should the deceased be a member of
the Mission , his services with the Mission shall be considered to have terminated fifteen (15) days after his death. Return transportation to New York City for the family of the deceased member and for their baggage, household effects, and automobile shall be provided as prescribed in Article 17. All allowances due the deceased member, including salary for fifteen (15) days subsequent to his death, and reimbursement for expenses and transportation due the deceased member for travel performed on official business of the Government of Iran, shall be paid to the widow of the deceased member or to any other person who may have been designated in writing by the deceased while serving under the terms of this agreement; but such widow or other person shall not be compensated for accrued leave due and not taken by the deceased . All compensations due the widow, or other person designated by the deceased, under the provisions of this article, shall be paid within fifteen (15) days of the decease of said member,
8.

         .                    .                                                                    .                                                       .                                           
 -       
  .                                         
 -      



 ·  
X-

Office space, etc.
Transportation of remains in case of .death
.dCoempcenesmaaetmsiboeenrddue

3314

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

 .                          .                  .                                 .              .                           
      
  -   
                     .                          .                .    .                                                   
 -      

Hospitalization. Annual leave.

Article 22. If a member of the Mission becomes ill or suffers
injury, he shall, at the discretion of the Chief of the Mission , be placed in such hospital as the Chief of the Mission deems suitable, after consultation with the Ministry of War of Iran, and all expenses incurred as the result of such illness or injury while the patient is a member of the Mission and remains in Iran shall be paid by the Goverment of Iran . If the hospitalized member is a commissioned officer, he shall pay his cost of subsistence. Families will enjoy the same privileges agreed upon in this article for members of the Mission, except that a member of the Mission shall in all cases pay the cost of subsistence incident to hospitalization of a member of his family. Any member of the Mission unable to perform his duties with the Mission by reason of long continued physical disability shall be replaced.
TITLE V STIPULATIONS AND CONDITIONS
Article 23. Each member of the Mission shall be entitled to
one months annual leave with pay, or to a proportional part thereof with pay for any fractional part of the year. Unused portions of said leave shall be cumulative from
year to year during service as a member of the Mission. This leave may be spent in Iran, in the United States of America, or in other countries, but the expense of travel and transportation not otherwise provided for in this agreement shall be borne by the member of the Mission taking such leave. All travel time on leave shall count as leave. The Government of Iran agrees to grant the leave herein specified according to the written application approved by the Chief of Mission with due consideration for the convenience of the Government of Iran.
-9-


· 

61 STAT.]

IRAN-MILITARY MISSION- OCT. 6, 1947

3315

 Article 24. So long as this agree-
ment, or any extension thereof, is in effect, the Government of Iran shall
not engage the services of any personnel of any other foreign government for

duties of any nature connected with the
Iranian Army, except by mutual agree- L ment between the Government of the United States of America and the Govern- 03

ment of Iran .

A10



Article shall grant

e2x5.emptTiheonGofvreormnmceunsttoomfduItriaens U

or other imports on articles imported

itnhteoirIprearnsobnyamlemubseerosrotfhethuesMeisosfitonheifror families, provided that their request
for free entry has received the approval of the Ambassador of the United Statesostia of America or the Charge d'Affairs, ad interim, and from all export duties on articles purchased in Iran for their personal use or the use of their m

families grant free

The and

uGnorveesrtnmreincttedofpaIsrasnageshoalfl

mail to and from members of the Mission tor

ftrraonmsapnordttaotitohneoUfnistucehd mSatialteisswhfeunrnished 1

Bixby the Government of the United States of America. The Chief of the Mission is responsible that no contraband is oft
do sent or received by members of the Mission or their families.

, .

IN HITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned

Mahmoud Djam, Minister of Warof Iran, and (191

George V. Allen

Ambassador

Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the

United States of America, have signed this agreement in duplicate in the English and Persian languages, at Tehran, this sixth day of October one thousand nine hundred and forty seven.

eljasup Jes .1. Allen

Ambassador ofthe







UnitedStates of Comerica .

J.

orig sh

-OTO

Along shaft ob noia Jhods oni iaurt al ob noltric

  .  

                . 
         

 .              

  .             

                         

              .        

                 

      

                     
        

  .                               
 -        



Services of Personnel of other foreign governments , restriction.
Exemption from customs duties.
Passage of mail.

3316

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

April 4, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1667]

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting the restoration of certain industrial property rights affected by World
War II. Signed at Washington April 4, 1947; entered into force November 10, 1947.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE ACCORD ENTRE LES ETATS-

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND FRANCE CON-

UNIS D'AMERIQUE ET LA FRANCE CONCERNANT LA

CERNING THE RESTORA- RESTAURATION DE CER-

TION OF CERTAIN INDUS- TAINS DROITS DE PRO-

TRIAL PROPERTY RIGHTS PRIETE INDUSTRIELLE AT-

AFFECTED BY WORLD WAR TEINTS PAR LA DEUXIEME

II

GUERRE MONDIALE

The Government of the United Le Gouvernement des Etats-

States of America and the Govern- Unis d'Amérique et le Gouverne-

ment of the French Republic,

ment de la République Française,

Being desirous of remedying the Soucieux de remédier aux at-

effects on industrial property teintes subies par les droits de

rights of their nationals resulting propriété industrielle de leurs resfrom World War II by concluding sortissants, du fait de la deuxième an agreement for extending the guerre mondiale, ont décidé de rights of priority in patent matters réaliser un accord ayant pour objet and the times for taking action de prolonger, d'une part , les droits with respect to patents and patent de priorité en matière de brevet, applications , and related matters, d'autre part, les délais nécessaires
pour remplir les formalités concernant les brevets et demandes

Have agreed as follows:

de brevets ; enfin, de régler un certain nombre de questions connexes,
Ils ont en conséquence convenu ce qui suit:

ARTICLE I

ARTICLE I

Periods of priority. The periods of priority pro- Les délais de priorité prévus vided by Article 4 of the Conven- par l'Article 4 de la Convention

tion of Union of Paris for the d'Union de Paris pour la Protec-

53 Stat. 1772.

Protection of Industrial Property, tion de la Propriété industrielle , last revised at London on June revisée en dernier lieu à Londres 2 , 1934, and by the laws of the le 2 juin 1934 , et par les lois qui s'y respective countries in accordance rapportent dans chacun des deux therewith, for the filing of applica- pays , pour le dépôt des demandes tions for patents or designs and de brevets d'invention , ou de models, which had not expired on dessins et modèles, non expirés le September 8, 1939 , and those 8 septembre 1939 , ainsi que ceux

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY- APR. 4, 1947

3317

which have arisen since that date, qui ont pris naissance depuis are extended by each of the coun- cette date, sont prolongés par

tries, in favor of the nationals of chacun des deux pays , en faveur

the other country, until August 7, des nationaux de l'autre pays,

1947 .

jusqu'au 7 août, 1947 .

Documents required for support Les documents exigés à l'appui

of a claim of priority may be filed d'une revendication de priorité

before the expiration of six months pourront être déposés jusqu'à l'ex-

from the date of filing of the piration d'un délai de six mois, à

application .

dater de la demande .

Patents already issued without Les brevets déjà délivrés sans

a claim for priority shall benefit revendication du droit de priorité,

from the provisions of the first bénéficieront des dispositions du

paragraph of this Article on the premier paragraphe du présent condition that the request for Article, à la condition que la

priority and the required docu- demande et les documents ne

ments be filed by August 7, 1947. soient pas déposés après le 7 août 1947 .

ARTICLE II

ARTICLE II

Applications for patents or de-

Les

droits

résultant

des

de-

Applications for patents, etc.

signs and models in one of the mandes de brevets ou de dessins

countries by nationals of the other et modèles , formulées par les

country, considered as abandoned ressortissants de l'un des deux

or forfeited since September 8, pays, dans l'autre pays , et con1939, are restored, and the time sidérées comme abandonnées ou

for the payment of any fee , or the déchues depuis le 8 septembre taking of any action or the accom- 1939, sont restaurés. Les délais plishment of any formality pre- pour le paiement de toute taxe, scribed by the laws of each coun- l'accomplissement de tout acte try with respect to applications for et de toute formalité prescrits patents or designs and models par les lois de chacun des deux

which had not expired on Septem- pays, pour les demandes de brevets ber 8, 1939 , or which arose after d'invention ou de dessins et mo-

that date, is extended to August 7 , dèles qui n'étaient pas expirés le 8

1947 , without additional tax.

septembre 1939 , ou qui ont pris

naissance après cette date , sont,

dans ce cas, prolongés jusqu'au 7 août 1947, sans aucune surtaxe.

ARTICLE III

ARTICLE III

Patents or designs and models

Les brevets d'invention,

ou les

Right of third par ties."

obtained pursuant to the present dessins et modèles obtenus en

Agreement shall not affect the vertu du présent Accord , ne pour-

right of third parties , or their ront en aucun cas, affecter le droit

agents or successors in business, des tiers ou de leurs ayants -droit

who, before August 8 , 1946 , or be- à continuer leur exploitation si

fore the date of the restoration of ceux-ci ont de bonne foi entrepris

an application under Article II , l'exploitation d'une invention , des-

have in good faith begun the work- sin ou modèle, avant le 8 août

ing of an invention, design, or 1946 , ou avant la date de restaura95347°-49- PT. III- -66

3318

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

model , to continue such working, tion des demandes formulées en

or the right of those bona fide in application de l'Article II . Ces

possession of patents and applica- brevets d'invention, dessins ou

tions for patents , designs , or modèles, ne pourront d'autre part

models , or their agents or licensees affecter les droits acquis avant le

before August 8, 1946 , to use the 8 août 1946 , par les détenteurs de

inventions covered by such patents bonne foi de brevets d'invention ,

or applications for patents or de demandes de brevets , de dessins

designs and models.

et modèles ou par leurs ayants-

droit, d'exploiter les inventions

protégées par de tels brevets , demandes de brevets ou de dessins et modèles .

Duration ofpatents.

ARTICLE IV The duration of patents ob-

ARTICLE IV La durée de validité des brevets

tained pursuant to the present d'invention délivrés en applicaAgreement by nationals of each tion du présent Accord aux resof the two countries shall not sortissants de chacun des deux

Annual taxes.

exceed twenty years from the pays ne pourra excéder vingt

day of the first application filed . années, à compter du jour du dépôt

The dates on which annual taxes de la première demande . Les

are due under the laws of France dates normales d'échéance des

shall remain unchanged .

annuités prévues par les lois

françaises resteront inchangées .

Nothing in the present Agree- Pour l'application des disposi-

ment shall be construed to extend tions spéciales autorisées par les

the time for filing requests for lois françaises relatives à la pro-

extensions of the duration of longation exceptionnelle de la

patents authorized by the French durée du brevet d'invention , du

law concerning exceptional ex- fait de la guerre, le présent Accord

tension of the duration of patents ne pourra être considéré comme

on account of the war.

prolongeant les délais impartis

aux intéressés pour formuler leurs

demandes .

ARTICLE V

ARTICLE V

Nationals of the United States Les ressortissants des Etats-

of America may pay up to August Unis d'Amérique pourront, jus-

7,? 1947:

qu'au 7 août 1947 , acquitter:

1. those annual taxes for pat- 10. accompagnées du montant

ents which could have been paid de la taxe supplémentaire de re-

on September 8, 1939 , accom- tard due au 8 septembre 1939 ,

panied by any additional delay les taxes d'annuité des brevets

fee due on that date, and

d'invention qui pouvaient encore

être valablement acquittées à la date ci-dessus ;

2. the annual taxes due since 20. sans taxe supplémentaire,

September 8, 1939, without any les annuités échues depuis le additional delay fees, and in such 8 septembre 1939. Dans ces deux

61 STAT. ] FRANCE- INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY-APR. 4, 1947

3319

cases the payments will be con- cas, les paiements seront con-

sidered as having been made in sidérés comme ayant été effectués

time .

en temps voulu .

ARTICLE VI The period between September

ARTICLE VI
Period not taken La période comprise entre le into account.

8, 1939 and the date of the coming 8 septembre 1939 et la date de

into force of the present Agree- mise en vigueur du présent Accord ment shall not be taken into n'entre pas en ligne de compte

account in the term provided for dans le délai prévu pour la mise

the working of a patent.

en exploitation d'un brevet.

ARTICLE VII

ARTICLE VII

In no case shall the present

En aucun cas le présent Accord

Validity of decisions.

Agreement invalidate a judicial ne pourra avoir pour effet d'invalidecision regarding the validity of der une décision judiciaire, con-

a patent rendered prior to the date cernant la validité d'un brevet,

of the coming into force of the intervenue antérieurement à la

present Agreement .

date de sa mise en application.

ARTICLE VIII

ARTICLE VIII

Trade-mark registrations in one

L'enregistrement

des

marques

Renewal of trademark registrations.

of the countries , of the nationals de fabrique et de commerce d'un

of the other country , which have ressortissant de l'un des deux pays , expired since September 8, 1939, dans l'autre pays, dont la validité

may be renewed before June 30 , serait venue à expiration après le 1948, and such renewals shall have 8 septembre 1939 , pourra être retroactive effect to the date of renouvelé à condition que ce re-

the expiration of the normal term nouvellement soit effectué avant

of the expired registrations.

le 30 juin 1948. Un tel renou-

vellement aura effet rétroactif à

la date d'expiration de la durée normale du précédent enregistrement .

ARTICLE IX

ARTICLE IX

The rights granted by the Les droits concédés par le Reciprocal rights.

present Agreement to nationals présent Accord aux ressortissants of the United States of America des Etats-Unis d'Amérique seront

shall also be granted to French également acquis aux ressortis-

nationals residing in the United sants français résidant aux Etats-

States of America .

Unis d'Amérique.

Each Government shall deliver Chacun des Gouvernements, par anNcoet.ice of accept-

to the other Government a notice une note qu'il adressera à l'autre,

that it has accepted the present lui fera savoir qu'il a accepté le

Agreement in accordance with its présent Accord conformément à law and has taken all steps neces- sa législation et qu'il a pris les

sary to enable it to carry out all dispositions nécessaires pour l'exé-

its obligations under the present cution de toutes les obligations

Agreement .

prévues à cet Accord .

3320

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

Entry into force.

The present Agreement shall Cet Accord entrera en vigueur

come into force on the day the à la date de l'échange des notisaid notices are delivered by fications. Si ces notifications sont

each Government to the other. faites à des dates différentes, If the said notices are delivered l'Accord entrera en vigueur à

on different days, the Agreement la date de la dernière.

shall come into force on the day

of the delivery of the notice later [ ] in time.

Authentic languages. Done in duplicate, at Wash- Fait en double exemplaire, à

ington, in the English and French Washington , le 4 avril 1947 , en

languages, each equally authen- anglais et en français, les deux

tic, on April 4, 1947.

textes faisant également foi.

For the United States of America: Pour les Etats-Unis d'Amérique:
DEAN ACHESON

For the French Republic : Pour la République Française :
H. BONNET
¹ [ By note no. 254 dated July 21 , 1947, received in the Department of State July 22, 1947, the French Embassy in Washington notified the Department of State of the approval of this agreement by the French Parliament. By a memorandum dated Nov. 10, 1947, delivered on that date, the Department of State notified the French Embassy in Washington of the acceptance of this agreement by the Government of the United States of America.]

61 STAT. ] FRANCE-INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY-APR. 4, 1947

3321

ANNEX

ANNEXE

It is understood that the appli- Il est entendu que l'application

cation to nationals of France of aux ressortissants français des the provisions of Sections 1 , 3, 4, dispositions des Sections 1 , 3, 4, 10, and 15 of the law of the United 10, et 15 de la loi des Etats -Unis

States of America approved August 8, 1946 , Public Law 690 , 79th Congress, relating to patents

d'Amérique, promulguée le 8 août 1946 , dite loi publique 690 , 79ème Congrès , relative aux brevets d'in-

60 Stat. 940. 35 U. S. C. § 101 et
seg.

and designs, shall be considered vention et dessins , correspond aux

as complying with the require- dispositions du présent Accord. ments of the present Agreement .
It is further understood that the Il est entendu, d'autre part,

application to nationals of France que l'application aux ressortis-

of the law of the United States of sants français de la loi des Etats-

America approved July 17 , 1946 , Unis d'Amérique, promulguée le

Public Law 517 , 79th Congress , 17 juillet 1946 , dite loi publique

relating to extension of time for 517 , 79ème Congrès , relative à la

applying for renewal of trade- prolongation des délais pour le

mark registrations, shall be con- renouvellement de l'enregistre-

sidered as complying with the ment des marques de fabrique et

requirements of Article VIII of de commerce correspond aux dis-

the present Agreement.

positions de l'Article VIII du

présent Accord.

60 Stat. 568. 15 U.S. C. § 92 note
Ante, p. 3319.

D. A. H B.

3322

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

October 21 , 29, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1668]

Agreement between the United States of America and Ecuador respecting the exchange of official publications. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Quito October 21 and 29, 1947; entered into force October 29, 1947.

The American Ambassador to the Ecuadoran Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 370

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Quito, October 21, 1947.

EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have taken

place between representatives of the Government of the United States of America and representatives of the Government of Ecuador in regard to the exchange of official publications, and to inform Your Excellency that the Government of the United States of America agrees that there shall be an exchange of official publications between the two Governments in accordance with the following provisions :

1. Each of the two Governments shall furnish regularly a copy of each of its official publications which is indicated in a selected list prepared by the other Government and communicated through diplomatic channels subsequent to the conclusion of the present agreement. The list of publications selected by each Government may be revised from time to time and may be extended , without the necessity of subsequent negotiations, to include any other official publication of the other Government not specified in the list, or publications of new offices which the other Government may establish in the future.
2. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of the United States of America shall be the Smithsonian Institution. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of Ecuador shall be the Biblioteca Nacional.
3. The publications shall be received on behalf of the United States of America by the Library of Congress and on behalf of the Republic of Ecuador by the Biblioteca Nacional.
4. The present agreement does not obligate either of the two Governments to furnish blank forms , circulars which are not of a public character, or confidential publications.
5. Each of the two Governments shall bear all charges , including postal, rail and shipping costs , arising under the present agreement in connection with the transportation within its own country of the publications of both Governments and the shipment of its own

61 STAT. ] ECUADOR-EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS-OCT. 21, 29, 1947
publications to a port or other appropriate place reasonably convenient to the exchange office of the other Government.
6. The present agreement shall not be considered as a modification of any existing exchange agreement between a department or agency of one of the Governments and a department or agency of the other Government.
Upon the receipt of a note from Your Excellency indicating that the foregoing provisions are acceptable to the Government of Ecuador, the Government of the United States of America will consider that this note and your reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, the agreement to enter into force on the date of your note in reply.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
JOHN F. SIMMONS His Excellency
Doctor José VICENTE TRUJILLO, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Quito.

The Ecuadoran Ministerfor Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

REPÚBLICA DEL ECUADOR MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

DEPARTAMENTO DE ACTOS Y ORGANISMOS INTERNACIONALES.-

No. 244-DAO.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR:

Quito, a 29 Oct. 1947

Tengo a honra referirme a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia, signada con el número 370 , de fecha 21 de octubre en curso , y a las conversaciones sostenidas entre los representantes del Gobierno del Ecuador y los representantes del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, con relación al intercambio de publicaciones oficiales .

2. Al respecto, me permito informar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Gobierno ecuatoriano está de acuerdo con el establecimiento de un
intercambio de publicaciones oficiales, conforme a las siguientes estipulaciones :

I. Cada uno de los dos Gobiernos proporcionará regularmente al otro un ejemplar de cada una de sus publicaciones oficiales que se indicarán en una lista seleccionada y preparada por el otro Gobierno la que será remitida por conducto diplomático subsiguientemente a la conclusión del presente convenio . La lista de las publicaciones escogidas por cada Gobierno puede ser revisada de vez en cuando y puede ser ampliada sin la necesidad de negociaciones subsiguientes, con el fin de incluír cualquier otra publicación oficial del otro Gobierno que no esté especificada en la lista, o

3323

3324 Ante, p. 3322.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
publicaciones sobre nuevas oficinas que el otro Gobierno pueda establecer en el futuro.
II. La oficina de intercambio oficial para la remisión de publicaciones del Gobierno del Ecuador será la Biblioteca Nacional. La oficina de intercambio oficial para el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América será la " Smithsonian Institution " .
III. Las publicaciones serán recibidas en nombre de la República del Ecuador por la Biblioteca Nacional y en nombre de los Estados Unidos de América por la Biblioteca del Congreso .
IV. El presente convenio no obliga a ninguno de los dos Gobiernos a proporcionar publicaciones confidenciales, formularios y circulares que no sean de carácter público .
V. Cada uno de los dos Gobiernos sufragará todos los gastos , inclusive porte postal, fletes ferrocarrilero y marítimo , que pueden sobrevenir por el presente convenio, en relación con el transporte dentro de su propio país de las publicaciones de ambos Gobiernos y el despacho de sus propias publicaciones a un puerto o lugar adecuado, razonablemente conveniente, a la oficina de canje del otro Gobierno.
VI. El presente convenio no será considerado como una modificación de cualquier convenio de intercambio existente entre un departamento o agencia de uno de los Gobiernos y un departamento o agencia del otro Gobierno.
3. El Gobierno del Ecuador considera que la referida comunicación de Vuestra Excelencia y esta contestación constituyen un convenio entre los dos Gobiernos sobre este asunto , el cual entrará en vigencia desde la presente fecha.
Válgome de la oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Excelencia el testimonio de mi más alta y distinguida consideración ,
José V. TRUJILLO
Al Excelentísimo Señor Don JOHN F. SIMMONS, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América.
Translation REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS

DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL ACTS AND ORGANIZATIONS.-

No. 244-DAO.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

QUITO, October 29, 1947

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's courteous note num-

bered 370, dated October 21 , last, and to the conversations which took place between the representatives of the Government of Ecuador

and the representatives of the Government of the United States of

America in regard to the exchange of official publications.

61 STAT.] ECUADOR-EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS-OCT. 21 , 29, 1947
2. With respect thereto , I take the liberty of informing Your Excellency that the Ecuadoran Government is agreeable to the establishment of an exchange of official publications , in accordance with the following provisions :
I. Each of the two Governments shall furnish regularly to the other a copy of each of its official publications which are indicated in a selected list prepared by the other Government and communicated through diplomatic channels subsequent to the conclusion of the present agreement. The list of the publications selected by each Government may be revised from time to time and may be extended, without the necessity of subsequent negotiations , in order to include any other official publication of the other Government not specified in the list, or publications concerning new offices which the other Government may establish in the future.
II. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of Ecuador shall be the Biblioteca Nacional. The official exchange office for the Government of the United States of America shall be the Smithsonian Institution .
III. The publications shall be received on behalf of the Republic of Ecuador by the Biblioteca Nacional and on behalf of the United States of America by the Library of Congress.
IV. The present agreement does not obligate either of the two Governments to furnish confidential publications, blank forms, and circulars which are not of a public character.
V. Each of the two Governments shall bear all charges, including postal , rail and shipping costs, arising under the present agreement in connection with the transportation within its own country of the publications of both Governments and the shipment of its own publications to a port or other appropriate place reasonably convenient to the exchange office of the other Government.
VI. The present agreement shall not be considered as a modification of any existing exchange agreement between a department or agency of one of the Governments and a department or agency of the other Government.
3. The Government of Ecuador considers that the above-mentioned communication from Your Excellency and this reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, the agreement to enter into force from this date.
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
José V. TRUJILLO His Excellency
JOHN F. SIMMONS, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary ofthe United States of America.

3325

3326

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

DecJeanmubaerry42, 91,914694, 7and [T. I. A. S. 1669]

Agreement between the United States of America and Peru respecting a
cooperative food production program in Peru, further extending and modifying the agreement ofMay 19 and 20, 1943. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Lima December 4 , 1946, and January 29, 1947; entered into force January 29, 1947 ; effective January 1 , 1947.

The American Ambassador to the Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 278 EXCELLENCY :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Lima, December 4 , 1946

I have the honor to refer to this Embassy's note No. 812 of June

Ante, p. 3123.

11 , 1945 transmitting the English and Spanish texts of the Memorandum of Agreement signed on June 8, 1945 by William C. Brister

and by His Excellency Godofredo Labarthe , Minister of Agriculture,

57 Stat. 1405.

extending to December 31 , 1946 the revised Memorandum of Agreement dated May 19 , 1943 , which concerned the establishment of

an Inter-American Cooperative Food Production Service in Peru .

Extension of agree-

ment.

On December 4, 1946 there was signed in Lima by Colonel Arthur

R. Harris and His Excellency Luis Rose Ugarte, Minister of Agricul-

ture of Peru , a Memorandum of Agreement in English and Spanish,

copies of which are attached . By virtue of this instrument the Agreement under reference is further extended until June 30 , 1948 .

If Your Excellency agrees, this note together with your reply indicating the approval of the Government of Peru will be considered

as constituting an agreement between our two Governments on the

tioEnff. ective date ; dura- subject . It is understood that this Agreement shall be effective as of January 1 , 1947 and that it shall continue in force until June 30 , 1948 .

I avail myself of this occasion to extend to Your Excellency the

renewed assurance of my highest and most distinguished consideration . PRENTICE COOPER

His Excellency Dr. ENRIQUE GARCÍA SAYAN,

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lima.

61 STAT.]

PERU-FOOD PRODUCTION- Dec. 4, 1946 Jan. 29, 1947

3327

MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

WHEREAS the Cooperative Program of Food Production between the Republic of Peru , acting through the Minister of Agriculture

of the Republic, and the Government of the United States of America, acting through the Institute of Inter-American Affairs (hereinafter called the Institute) , covered by the Memorandum of Agreement of May 19, 1943 has contributed to the development of agriculture in Peru ; WHEREAS the Government of Peru and the Government of the United States of America wish to derive the maximum benefit

57 Stat. 1405.

from the work performed to date under the basic agreement ; WHEREAS the Government of Peru considers the Agreement to be indispensable

to the economy and welfare of the country in the light of the acute shortage of essential commodities ; WHEREAS the Republic of Peru believes that termination of the Agreement at this time might jeopardize the improvement of the basic economy of the country ; WHEREAS the Government of the United States of America recognizes the benefits of the program to the people of the Republic of Peru ; and WHEREAs the Government of the United States of America and that of the

Republic of Peru consistent with the declaration of Mexico have

expressed their adherence to the principle that economic cooperation

is essential to the common prosperity of the American nations ; and

whereas the Government of Peru has requested that the agreement

herein above mentioned be extended until June 30, 1948: The Republic of Peru, acting through the Minister of Agriculture
of the Republic of Peru , and the Government of the United States

Extension of food production program.

of America, acting through the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, a corporate instrumentality of that Government (hereinafter called

the Institute) hereby agree to extend as hereinafter set forth the Cooperative Program of Food Production provided for in the Memorandum of Agreement dated May 19 , 1943 entered into by the parties hereto as extended by the agreements of June 1 , 1944 and June 8, 1945 .

57 Stat. 1405. 58 Stat. 1484. Ante, p. 3123.

1. The cooperative program of food production shall continue to be carried out through the Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Produccion de Alimentos (hereinafter called the "SCIPA") , which was created by the Government of Peru in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement of May 19 , 1943 and continued by the Agreements of June 1 , 1944 and June 8 , 1945 referred to above.
2. The fields of activity which the programs of the SCIPA may embrace, as set forth in Article 3 of the Memorandum of Agreement, dated May 19 , 1943 , and as amended in the later Memoranda of Agreement mentioned herein, are hereby modified and restated as follows : The SCIPA will continue to develop programs to increase

SCIPA
Fields ofactivity. 57 Stat. 1406.

the production, processing and distribution of foodstuffs of vegetable

3328
Contributions. 57 Stat. 1407. 58 Stat. 1485. Ante, p. 3124.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
and animal origin of primary necessity, which programs may include, without being limited to , the following items :
(a) technical assistance in the fields of production , processing, storage and distribution of food products of animal and vegetable origin.
(b) the study of the economic problems of production, processing, and distribution of foodstuffs , and the preparation of reports and studies destined to provide information essential to planning adjustments in the production of crops to domestic consumption requirements .
(c) the development of new acreage, including agricultural colonization, and of plans for soil conservation ; soil surveys and the rehabilitation of existing irrigation facilities ; aid in new irrigation facilities and drainage.
(d) the supply of means, tools , equipment , insecticides , seeds, livestock, and other materials, and of professional and technical services to agriculturists .
(e) the development of a country wide agricultural extension service to improve production of food and to promote the agricultural industry generally.
(f) technical studies and related work in the fields of nutrition, diet, and home economics , and to promote improved nutritional and general home economics practices through an organized extension service.
(g) special assistance to inadequately financed operators of small farms, including the providing of equipment for hire at minimum prices, the making of "loans in kind" during periods of special emergency , etc.
(h) the making available to the Government of Peru and the Government of the United States of America of technical and scientific information and discoveries of interest to agriculturists in either country and the promoting of scientific studies in Peruvian agricultural economy as requested by and in cooperation with either government .
3. The provisions of Article 4 of the Memorandum of Agreement of May 19 , 1943 are considered to have been fulfilled by the contribution of US $ 162,976.77 (S/. 1,056,904.35) by the Institute and by the contribution of S/ . 1,056,904.35 (US $ 162,976.77) by the Republic of Peru. The provisions of Article 3 of the extended Memorandum of Agreement, signed June 1 , 1944, are considered to have been fulfilled as the result of contributions amounting to US $ 150,000 (S/. 972,750) by the Institute and S/. 1,945,500 (US $300,000) by the Republic of Peru . The provisions of Article 3 of the extended Memorandum of Agreement, dated June 8, 1945 , are considered to have been fulfilled as the result of contributions amounting to US $75,000.00 (S/. 486,375) by the Institute paid by November 1 , 1946 and of the amount of S/. 972,750.00 (US $ 150,000 ) contributed by the Republic of Peru by November 1 , 1946 .

61 STAT. ]

Dec. 4, 1946 PERU-FOOD PRODUCTION- Jan. 29, 1947

3329

Financing of pro4. The cooperative food production program shall be financed by gra

the parties during the extended period comprehended by this Agreement, as follows :

Deposits by InstiA. The Institute shall deposit to the account of the SCIPA tute.
the sum of Seventy-five Thousand ($ 75,000.00) Dollars (being the

equivalent of S/. 486,375 (Peruvian Soles) at the conversion rate of

S/. 6.485 per U. S. dollar) on the following dates and in the following

amounts :

Dollars

January 1 , 1947 February 1 , 1947 March 1, 1947 April 1 , 1947 May 1 , 1947 June 1 , 1947 July 1, 1947 August 1 , 1947 September 1 , 1947 October 1 , 1947 November 1 , 1947 December 1 , 1947 January 1 , 1948 February 1 , 1948 March 1 , 1948 April 1 , 1948 May 1, 1948 June 1, 1948

4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4,200.00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200.00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200.00 3, 600.00

US $75, 000. 00

B. In view of the fact that many purchases of materials, puFrcuhnadsseswiinthUh.eSl.d for

supplies and equipment and other disbursements relating to the execution of the program will be made in the United States of America, the Institute may withhold from the deposits called for by subsection A of Article 4 the estimated amounts deemed to be necessary to pay

for such purchase and disbursements. Any funds so withheld by the

Institute for such purposes shall be considered as if deposited under

the terms of subsection A hereof but, if they are not expended or obligated for such purposes, they shall be deposited to the order of

the SCIPA at any time upon the mutual agreement of the Minister

of Agriculture and the Chief of the Food Supply Mission of the Institute in Peru.
C. In addition to the contribution of the Institute mentioned in

Availability of funds for administra-

subsection A hereof, the Institute will make available during the tive expenses.

period of this extension for the cooperative program the funds neces-

sary to pay the salaries, living expenses, travel and transportation costs and other administrative expenses of the members of the Food

Supply Mission of the Institute in Peru . It is understood that this

sum will not exceed Two Hundred and Twenty-five Thousand

($225,000.00) Dollars. These funds will not be deposited to the

account of the SCIPA but will be administered by the Chief of the Food Supply Mission of the Institute in Peru for the purposes stated

and in the interest of the general cooperative program of food produc-

tion and agricultural development in Peru.

3330

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Peruvian deposits.

D. The Republic of Peru shall deposit to the account of the

SCIPA the equivalent in Peruvian currency of Four Hundred and

Fifty Thousand ($ 450,000 ) Dollars , namely, the sum of Two Million,

Nine Hundred and Eighteen Thousand , Two Hundred and Fifty (S/.

2,918,250) Soles at the conversion rate of S/. 6.485 per U. S. Dollar, on

the following dates and in the following amounts : Soles

Dollars

January 1 , 1947 February 1 , 1947 March 1 , 1947 April 1 , 1947 May 1, 1947 June 1 , 1947 July 1, 1947 August 1, 1947 September 1 , 1947 October 1 , 1947 November 1 , 1947 December 1 , 1947 January 1 , 1948 February 1 , 1948 March 1 , 1948 April 1 , 1948 May 1 , 1948 June 1 , 1948

162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125.00 162, 125. 00 162 , 125. 00 162, 125.00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125.00 162, 125.00 162, 125.00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125.00

25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25,000.00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00

Amendment of deposit schedules.

S/. 2,918, 250.00

US $450, 000. 00

E. The parties hereto , by written agreement of the Minister

of Agriculture and the Chief of the Food Supply Mission of the Insti-

tute, may amend the schedules for making the deposits provided for

in Article 4, subsection A and D, and agree to make the deposits as

required by the needs of the program .

Use of SCIPAfunds to defray salaries and

F. By mutual agreement between the Minister of Agriculture

peexrpsenosnenselo. fadditional and the Chief of the Food Supply Mission of the Institute in Peru

funds of the SCIPA may be used to reimburse or defray the salaries ,

living expenses, travel and transportation costs, and other expenses

of such additional personnel of the Food Supply Mission of the Insti-

tute in Peru as the parties mentioned may agree are necessary to

be employed, in addition to the employees referred to under subsec-

tion C above. Such funds may be contributed or granted for such purposes by the SCIPA to the Institute or to any other organization ,

but in every case the Minister of Agriculture and the Chief of the

Food Supply Mission of the Institute in Peru will enter into a written

project agreement setting forth the scope and the other necessary terms of such contributions or grants.

Income accruing to

SCIPA.

5. Article 7 of the Memorandum of Agreement signed June 8, 1945,

Ante, p. 3125.

is hereby amended to read: Any income accruing to the account of

SCIPA as the result of normal project operations , or through the liqui-

dation of projects , or from whatever source, will continue to be avail-

able to SCIPA for the promotion of those projects from which the

income has accrued or, by mutual agreement between the Minister of

Agriculture, the Chief of the Food Supply Mission of the Institute and

61 STAT. ]

PERU- FOOD PRODUCTION- Dec. 4 , 1946 Jan. 29, 1947

3331

the Director of SCIPA, may be apportioned to other projects of

SCIPA .

It is further agreed that any balance of the funds and prop-

Unexpended funds, etc.

erty of SCIPA, unexpended or unused and unobligated at the ter-

mination of this agreement, will be disposed of by agreement between

the Minister of Agriculture and the Chief of the Food Supply Mission

of the Institute, having in mind the proportional contributions of each of the parties .

6.

The funds contributed in accordance with this Memorandum of

Employment of funds contributed.

Agreement are to be employed only for maintaining or extending

projects of the nature contemplated by the original Memorandum of

Agreement, or as subsequently modified, or as further modified by Article 2 of this agreement , which projects shall be embodied in written

Ante, p. 3327.

project agreements and shall be signed by the Minister of Agriculture,

the Chief of the Food Supply Mission of the Institute in Peru and the Director of SCIPA.

7. Article 9 of the original Memorandum of Agreement of May 19,

Rights and privileges.

1943, is hereby amended to read : All rights and privileges which are 57 Stat. 1408.

enjoyed by official divisions of the Government of Peru and by the personnel and employees of the same, shall accrue to the SCIPA and

to all its personnel and employees while performing their official duties .

The members of the Food Supply Mission of the Institute will not

be obligated to pay to Peru any direct tax or contribution for purposes of Social Security or retirement on salaries or income when they are subject to such taxes or contributions in the United States of

America. The Government of Peru shall extend free entry or shall

pay the corresponding charges for materiel and equipment necessary for the professional use of personnel of the Mission . In like manner the Government of Peru shall either grant free entry or pay corre-

sponding duties on personal effects of Mission members according to

the limitations covering members of the Diplomatic Corps accredited

to the Government of Peru ; for the purposes of this agreement Mission members shall be considered as having the same free entry priv-

ileges as First Secretaries in the Diplomatic Service . Duties exceeding these limits shall be paid by the personnel concerned . The cus- Reimbursement of
customs duties. toms duties paid by the SCIPA for imports of equipment , supplies and material destined for the use of the food supply program will be

reimbursed to the SCIPA by the Minister of Finance , as shown by

respective Customs House documents and receipts . In the same manner, the customs duties paid by the Institute for imports of equipment, supplies and material destined for the use of the Food

Supply Mission of the Institute will be reimbursed to the Institute

by the Minister of Finance as shown by respective Customs House documents and receipts.

8. The Chief of the Food Supply Mission of the Institute in Peru shall continue as Director of SCIPA throughout the life of this agreement. In order that Peruvian personnel will be prepared to assume,

Director of SCIPA. vaTnrapienrisnognneolf. Peru-

at the termination of this agreement, or earlier where circumstances warrant, the responsibilities of the Food Mission personnel for the

3332

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

administrative and technical direction of the program, definite provi-

sion shall be made during the life of this agreement for the training

of competent Peruvian personnel for all positions of administrative

Force and effect of prior agreements. 148547.Stat. 1405; 58 Stat.
Ante, p. 3123.

responsibility in the SCIPA organization. 9. The Memoranda of Agreement of May 19, 1943 , June 1 , 1944 ,
and June 8 , 1945, shall remain in full force and effect for the purpose
of extending the cooperative food production program through June 30, 1948 , except as they are modified by or are inconsistent with the

present agreement, and the provisions contained therein will apply

during the life of this agreement . This Memorandum of Agreement

shall become effective upon an exchange of notes between the two Governments .

In witness whereof, the parties hereto have caused this agreement

to be executed by their duly authorized representatives , in duplicate,

in the English and Spanish languages, in Lima, Peru , this

day of

1946 .

Republic of Peru

By (LUIS ROSE U. ) Minister of Agriculture

The Institute of Inter-American Affairs By (ARTHUR R. HARRIS )

61 STAT.]

Dec. 4, 1946 PERU- FOOD PRODUCTION-
Jan. 29, 1947

3333

MEMORANDUM DE CONVENIO
POR CUANTO: 1° - el Programa Cooperativo de Producción de Alimentos entre la República del Perú, por intermedio del Ministro de Agricultura de la República,y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, por intermedio del Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos (que más adelante seguirá llamándose el Instituto) , estipulado en el Memorandum de Convenio de 19 de Mayo de 1943, ha contribuído al desarrollo de la agricultura en el Perú ; POR CUANTO: 2º.- el Gobierno del Perú y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos desean obtener el máximo beneficio de la labor realizada hasta la fecha de acuerdo con el convenio básico ; POR CUANTO : 3º - el Gobierno del Perú considera el contrato conveniente para la economía y bienestar del país , en vista de la escasez de algunos productos alimenticios ; POR CUANTO: 4° - la República del Perú es de parecer que la interrupción del convenio resultaría inconveniente para proseguir el desarrollo de este aspecto de la economía básica del país ; POR CUANTO: 5º - el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América reconoce los beneficios que el programa ha producido para el pueblo peruano ; POR CUANTO: 6° - los Gobiernos de los Estados Unidos de América y de la República del Perú, consecuentes con la declaración de México , han expresado su adhesión al principio de que la cooperación económica es esencial para la común prosperidad de las naciones americanas ; y POR CUANTO : 7° -- el Gobierno del Perú ha solicitado que el convenio arriba mencionado se prorrogue hasta el 30 de Junio de 1948 :
La República del Perú, por intermedio del Ministro de Agricultura de la República del Perú, y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos , por intermedio del Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos , agencia corporativa de dicho Gobierno (que más adelante seguirá llamándose el Instituto) convienen por el presente, en prorrogar conforme se establece más adelante, el programa cooperativo de producción de alimentos estipulado en el Memorandum de Convenio de fecha 19 de Mayo de 1943 , celebrado entre las dos partes contratantes , que fué prorrogado segun Memorándum de Convenio de fecha 1º de Junio de 1944, y nuevamente renovado por Memorándum de Convenio de fecha 8 de Junio de 1945 .
1. El programa cooperativo de producción de alimentos continuará llevándose a efecto por intermedio del Servicio Cooperativo InterAmericano de Producción de Alimentos (que más adelante seguirá llamándose el "SCIPA" ) , y que fué creado por el Gobierno del Perú de acuerdo con el Memorandum de Convenio de 19 de Mayo de 1943 y se continuó según Memorandums de Convenios de 1º de Junio de 1944 y 8 de Junio de 1945 arriba mencionados. 95347°-49- PT. III- -67

3334

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
2. Los campos de actividad que pueden abarcar los programas de SCIPA, estipulados en el Artículo 3 del Memorandum de Convenio de fecha 19 de Mayo de 1943 , enmendados en los posteriores Memorandums de Convenios ya indicados, por el presente se modifican y reafirman, como sigue: El SCIPA continuará desarrollando programas destinados a incrementar la producción , elaboración y distribución de artículos alimenticios de primera necesidad, de origen vegetal y animal, cuyos programas comprenderán, sin limitarse a ellas , las siguientes actividades :
(a) ayuda de orden técnico en los campos de producción, elaboración almacenaje y distribución de productos alimenticios de origen vegetal y animal.
(b) estudio de los problemas económicos de la producción, elaboración y distribución de artículos alimenticios , y formulación de informes y estudios destinados a proporcionar los datos esenciales a los planes de ajuste entre la producción de cultivos y las necesidades de consumo nacional.
(c) creación de nuevas áreas de cultivo , inclusive la colonización agrícola, y de planes para la conservación de los suelos, estudios agrológicos y la rehabilitación de facilidades ya existentes en materia de irrigación ; ayuda para proporcionar nuevas facilidades de irrigación y drenaje.
(d) suministro de medios, herramientas, equipo , insecticidas, semilla, ganado y otros elementos , y de servicios profesionales y técnicos a los agricultores.
(e) desarrollo de un servicio de extensión agrícola en todo el país, con el fin de mejorar la producción de alimentos y fomentar la industria agrícola en general.
(f) estudios técnicos y trabajo pertinente a los campos de nutrición, dietética, y economía doméstica , y fomento del empleo de mejores prácticas en materia de nutrición y economía doméstica mediante un servicio de extensión debidamente organizado .
(g) especial apoyo a los pequeños agricultores que no cuentan con fondos adecuados , lo cual comprenderá alquiler de equipo y maquinaria agrícola a los precios más bajos, préstamos en especie durante épocas de emergencia, etc.
(h) facilitar al Gobierno del Perú, y al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, información técnica y científica y los descubrimientos que sean de interés para los agricultores de ambos países, y fomentar los estudios científicos de la economía agropecuaria del Perú , a solicitud de cualquiera de los dos Gobiernos y en colaboración con cualquiera de ellos.
3. Las estipulaciones contenidas en el Artículo 4 del Memorandum de Convenio de 19 de Mayo de 1943 , se consideran cumplidas mediante la contribución de US$ 162,976.77 (S/. 1,056,904.35) hecha por el Instituto, y por la contribución de S/. 1,056,904.35

61 STAT. ]

PERU-FOOD PRODUCTION- Dec. 4, 1946 Jan. 29, 1947

(US$ 162,976.77) hecha por la República del Perú. Las estipulaciones contenidas en el Artículo 3 de la prórroga del Memorandum de Convenio, firmada con fecha 1º de Junio de 1944, se consideran cumplidas como resultado de las contribuciones ascendentes a US$ 150,000 (S/. 972,750 ) y S/ . 1,945,500 (US$ 300,000 ) , hechas por el Instituto y por la República del Perú , respectivamente. Las

estipulaciones contenidas en el Artículo 3 de la prórroga del Memorándum de Convenio de fecha 8 de Junio de 1945 , quedarán

cumplidas como resultado de las contribuciones de US$ 75,000 (S/. 486,375 ) , por el Instituto y pagadera a más tardar el 1 ° de Noviembre de 1946 , y de S/. 972,750 (US$ 150,000) por la República del Perú a más tardar el 1º de Noviembre de 1946.

4. El programa cooperativo de producción de alimentos será financiado

por las partes contratantes , durante el plazo de la prórroga comprendido en este Convenio, como sigue:

A. El Instituto depositará en la cuenta de SCIPA, la suma de Setenticinco Mil ($ 75,000 ) Dólares (que es el equivalente de

S/. 486,375 (Soles Oro ) al tipo de cambio de S/ . 6.485 por U. S. dólar),

en las siguientes fechas y por las cantidades anotadas: Dólares

Enero 1º de 1947 Febrero 1º de 1947 Marzo 1º de 1947 Abril 1º de 1947 Mayo 1º de 1947 Junio 1º de 1947 Julio 1º de 1947 Agosto 1º de 1947 Setiembre 1º de 1947 Octubre 1º de 1947 Noviembre 1º de 1947 Diciembre 1º de 1947 Enero 1º de 1948 Febrero 1º de 1948 Marzo 1º de 1948 Abril 1º de 1948 Mayo 1º de 1948 Junio 1º de 1948

4, 200.00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4,200.00 4, 200. 00 4,200.00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200.00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 3, 600.00

US$ 75,000. 00
B. En vista de que muchas de las adquisiciones de materiales, útiles y equipo y otros desembolsos en relación con la ejecución del programa, se efectuarán en los Estados Unidos de América, el Instituto podrá retener, de los depósitos estipulados en el inciso A del Artículo 4 , las sumas estimadas que se consideran necesarias para cubrir dichas compras y desembolsos . Cualesquier fondos así retenidos por el Instituto con tal objeto, se considerarán como depositados de acuerdo con los términos de este inciso A, pero si no fuesen gastados o afectados para tales fines, se depositarán a la orden de SCIPA en cualquier momento, estando de común

3335

3336

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

acuerdo el Ministro de Agricultura y el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia en el Perú .
C. Además de la contribución del Instituto , mencionada en el inciso A, el Instituto proporcionará durante la vigencia de esta prórroga del programa cooperativo, los fondos necesarios para cubrir los sueldos, gastos de mantenimiento, viajes y transporte, y otros gastos administrativos de los miembros que integran la Misión de Producción Alimenticia del Instituto en el Perú. Queda entendido que esta suma no excederá de Doscientos Veinticinco Mil ($ 225,000) Dólares . Estos fondos no será depositados en la cuenta de SCIPA, sino administrados por el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia en el Perú, para los fines indicados y en beneficio del programa cooperativo de producción de alimentos y del desenvolvimiento agrícola del Perú .

D. La República del Perú depositará en la cuenta de SCIPA el equivalente en moneda peruana, de Cuatrocientos Cincuenta Mil

($450,000 ) Dólares, o sea la suma de Dos Millones , Novecientos

Dieciocho Mil , Doscientos Cincuenta (S/. 2, 918 , 250 ) Soles , al tipo

de cambio de S/. 6.485 por U.S. Dólar en las siguientes fechas y

cantidades anotadas:

Soles

Dólares

Enero 1º de 1947 Febrero 1º de 1947 Marzo 1º de 1947 Abril 1º de 1947 Mayo 1º de 1947 Junio 1º de 1947 Julio 1º de 1947 Agosto 1º de 1947 Setiembre 1º de 1947 Octubre 1º de 1947 Noviembre 1º de 1947 Diciembre 1º de 1947 Enero 1º de 1948 Febrero 1º de 1948 Marzo 1º de 1948 Abril 1º de 1948 Mayo 1º de 1948 Junio 1º de 1948

162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125.00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125.00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125.00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00 162, 125. 00

25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000, 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000. 00 25, 000, 00 25, 000. 00

S/. 2, 918, 250. 00 $ 450, 000. 00
E. Las partes contratantes, mediante convenio por escrito entre el Ministro de Agricultura y el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia, podrán modificar las fechas de depósito fijadas en el Artículo 4 , incisos A y D, y acordar hacer los depósitos conforme a las necesidades del programa.
F. De común acuerdo entre el Ministro de Agricultura y el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia en el Perú, los fondos de SCIPA podrán emplearse para reembolsar o cubrir sueldos , gastos de mantenimiento , viajes y transporte, y otros gastos del personal adicional de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia en el Perú que las partes contratantes crean necesario emplear, además de los empleados a que se refiere el inciso C. arriba mencionado . Dichos

61 STAT.]

PERU-FOOD PRODUCTION- Dec. 4, 1946 Jan. 29, 1947

fondos podrán ser aportador o concedidos con tal objeto por SCIPA ya sea al Instituto o a cualquiera otra institución, pero en cada caso el Ministro de Agricultura y el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia en el Perú extenderán un convenio de proyecto por escrito , indicando el propósito y otras condiciones necesarias de los referidos aportes o donaciones.
5. El Artículo 7 del Memorandum de Convenio , firmado el 8 de Junio de 1945 , queda modificado por el presente, como sigue : Todos los ingresos que incrementen las cuentas de SCIPA, como resultado de las operaciones normales de los proyectos , o por medio de la liquidación de proyectos , o debido a otro origen, seguirán a disposición de SCIPA para el fomento de aquellos proyectos de los cuales provienen tales ingresos , o podrán ser asignados a otros proyectos de SCIPA por mutuo acuerdo entre el Ministro de Agricultura, el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia y el Director de SCIPA. Se conviene, además , que cualquier saldo de los fondos y bienes de SCIPA, que no hubiese sido gastado, utilizado y afectado a la expiración del presente convenio, será empleado de común acuerdo entre el Ministro de Agricultura y el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia del Instituto , teniendo presente las sumas proporcionales aportadas por cada parte contratante.
6. Los fondos aportados en virtud del presente Memorandum de Convenio habrán de emplearse únicamente para mantener o extender los proyectos de naturaleza tal como los contemplados en el Memorándum de Convenio original , o según modificación posterior por el Artículo 2 del presente convenio ; cuyos proyectos se formularán , por escrito , en la forma de convenios de proyectos, y serán firmados por el Ministro de Agricultura , el Jefe de la Mision de Producción Alimenticia en el Perú, y el Director de SCIPA.
7. El Artículo 9 del Memorándum de Convenio original, de 19 de Mayo de 1943, queda modificado por el presente, como sigue : Todos los derechos y prerrogativas de que gozan otras dependencias análogas del Gobierno del Perú, así como sus funcionarios y empleados públicos , se harán extensivos a SCIPA, y a todo su personal de empleados en el desempeño de sus funciones de carácter oficial. Los miembros que integran la Misión de Producción Alimenticia del Instituto no estarán obligados a pagar en el Perú ningún impuesto directo , seguro social ni cesantía, en el caso de que estén sujetos al pago de dichos impuestos en los Estados Unidos de América. El Gobierno del Perú permitirá la entrada libre o en su defecto pagará los derechos correspondientes sobre material y equipo necesario para el uso profesional del personal de la Misión. Igualmente, el Gobierno del Perú permitirá la entrada libre o abonará los derechos correspondientes sobre los efectos personales de los miembros de la Misión , de acuerdo con las condiciones limitativas a que están sujetos los miembros del Cuerpo Diplomático acreditado ante el Gobierno del Perú ; para los fines de este Convenio, los miembros de la Misión estarán considerados

3337

3338

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

como Primeros Secretarios del Servicio Diplomático en lo que se refiere a franquicias. Los derechos que excedan dichos límites serán abonados por el personal respectivo . Los derechos de Aduana pagados por SCIPA sobre importaciones de equipo , útiles y materiales para ser empleados en el programa de Producción de Alimentos, serán reembolsados a SCIPA por el Ministro de Hacienda, de acuerdo con los comprobantes y recibos respectivos de la Aduana. De igual manera, los derechos pagados por el Instituto sobre importaciones de equipo , útiles y materiales para ser empleados por la Misión de Producción Alimenticia serán reembolsados al Instituto por el Ministro de Hacienda, de acuerdo con los respectivos comprobantes y recibos de la Aduana.

8. El Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia del Instituto en el Perú continuará actuando como Director de SCIPA durante la vigencia del presente convenio. A fin de que el personal peruano pueda estar capacitado para asumir, al término de este acuerdo o antes si fuera el caso, la responsabilidad del personal americano por la dirección administrativa y técnica del programa, se dispondrá en forma definida durante la vigencia del presente convenio, la capacitación específica del personal peruano competente, para cada función administrativa de responsabilidad, dentro de la organización de SCIPA.

9. Los Memorandums de Convenios de 19 de Mayo de 1943, 1º de Junio de 1944 y 8 de Junio de 1945 quedan en plena vigencia y surtirán todos sus efectos para los fines de la renovación del programa cooperativo de Producción de Alimentos, hasta el 30 de Junio de 1948 , con excepción de las modificaciones contempladas en el presente convenio o que se opongan a él , y las disposiciones contenidas en dichos convenios se aplicarán durante el plazo de duración de este Convenio . Este Convenio entrará en vigencia en cuanto se produzca un cambio de notas entre los dos Gobiernos .

En fé de lo cual, las partes contratantes extienden este Convenio ,

en duplicado, por intermedio de sus representantes debidamente

autorizados, y en los idiomas inglés y castellano, en Lima, Perú, a

los

del mes

de 1946.

p. REPUBLICA DEL PERU
(LUIS ROSE U. ) Ministro de Agricultura

p. INSTITUTO DE ASUNTOS INTER-AMERICANOS
(ARTHUR R. HARRIS)

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

NUMERO: (H) -6-Y/1.

LIMA, 29 de Enero de 1947.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Tengo a honra dar respuesta a la estimable Nota de Vuestra

Excelencia, N° 278, de 4 de Diciembre último , con la que tiene a bien

61 STAT.]

Dec. 4, 1946 PERU-FOOD PRODUCTION- Jan. 29, 1947

comunicarme que en esa misma fecha, se firmó en Lima, por el Coronel Arthur R. Harris y el Señor Ministro de Agricultura, señor Luis Rose Ugarte, el memorandum de Convenio , cuyo texto es el siguiente:
MEMORANDUM DE CONVENIO

"POR CUANTO: 1 °-el Programa Cooperativo de Producción de Alimentos entre la República del Perú por intermedio del Ministro de Agricultura de la República, y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, por intermedio del Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos (que más adelante seguirá llamándose el Instituto) , estipulado en el Memorandum de Convenio de 19 de Mayo de 1943 , ha contribuído al desarrollo de la agricultura en el Perú ; POR CUANTO: 2º-el Gobierno del Perú y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos desean obtener el máximo beneficio de la labor realizada hasta la fecha de acuerdo con el Convenio básico ; POR CUANTO : 3°-el Gobierno del Perú considera el contrato conveniente para la economía y bienestar del país , en vista de la escasez de algunos productos alimenticios ; POR CUANTO: 4°-la República del Perú es de parecer que la interrupción del Convenio resultaría inconveniente para proseguir el desarrollo de este aspecto de la economía básica del país ; Por CUANTO : 5º-el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América reconoce los beneficios que el programa ha producido para el pueblo peruano ; POR CUANTO: 6°-los Gobiernos de los Estados Unidos de América y de la República del Perú , consecuentes con la declaración de México, han expresado su adhesión al principio de que la cooperación económica es esencial para la común prosperidad de las naciones americanas ; y POR CUANTO : 7°-el Gobierno del Perú ha solicitado que el convenio arriba mencionado se prorrogue hasta el 30 de Junio de 1948 :
"La República del Perú, por intermedio del Ministro de Agricultura de la República del Perú, y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos por intermedio del Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos , agencia
corporativa de dicho Gobierno (que más adelante seguirá llamándose el Instituto ) convienen por el presente, en prorrogar conforme se establece más adelante , el programa cooperativo de producción de alimentos estipulado en el Memorandum de Convenio de fecha 19 de Mayo de 1943, celebrado entre las dos partes contratantes , que fué prorrogado, según Memorandum de Convenio de fecha 1º de
Junio de 1944, y nuevamente renovado por Memorandum de Convenio de fecha 8 de Junio de 1945.
"1. El programa cooperativo de producción de alimentos continuará llevándose a efecto por intermedio del Servicio Cooperativo InterAmericano de Producción de Alimentos (que más adelante seguirá llamándose el "SCIPA" ) , y que fué creado por el Gobierno del Perú de acuerdo con el Memorandum de Convenio de 19 de Mayo de 1943 y se continuó según Memorandums de Convenios de 1º de Junio de 1944 y 8 de Junio de 1945 arriba mencionados .
"2. Los campos de actividad que pueden abarcar los programas de SCIPA, estipulados en el Artículo 3 del Memorandum de Convenio

3339

3340

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
de fecha 19 de Mayo de 1943 , enmendados en los posteriores Memorandums de Convenios ya indicados , por el presente se modifican y reafirman, como sigue: El SCIPA continuará desarrollando programas destinados a incrementar la producción, elaboración y distribución de artículos alimenticios de primera necesidad, de origen vegetal y animal, cuyos programas comprenderán , sin limitarse a ellas, las siguientes actividades :
"(a) ayuda de orden técnico en los campos de producción, elaboración, almacenaje y distribución de productos alimenticios de origen vegetal y animal.
"(b) estudio de los problemas económicos de la producción , elaboración y distribución de artículos alimenticios , y formulación de informes y estudios destinados a proporcionar los datos esenciales a los planes de ajuste entre la producción de cultivos y las necesidades de consumo nacional.
"(c) creación de nuevas áreas de cultivo , inclusive la colonización agrícola, y de planes para la conservación de los suelos , estudios agrológicos y la rehabilitación de facilidades ya existentes en materia de irrigación ; ayuda para proporcionar nuevas facilidades de irrigación y drenaje.
"(d) suministro de medios , herramientas, equipo , insecticidas, semilla, ganado y otros elementos , y de servicios profesionales y técnicos a los agricultores .
"(e) desarrollo de un servicio de extensión agrícola en todo el país, con el fin de mejorar la producción de alimentos y fomentar la industria agrícola en general.
"(f) estudios técnicos y trabajo pertinente a los campos de nutrición, dietética , y economía doméstica, y fomento del empleo de mejores prácticas en materia de nutrición y economía doméstica mediante un servicio de extensión debidamente organizado .
"(g) especial apoyo a los pequeños agricultores que no cuentan con fondos adecuados , lo cual comprenderá alquiler de equipo y maquinaria agrícola a los precios más bajos , préstamos en especie durante épocas de emergencia , etc.
"(h) facilitar al Gobierno del Perú y al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, información técnica y científica y los descubrimientos que sean de interés para los agricultores de ambos países , y fomentar los estudios científicos de la economía agropecuaria del Perú, a solicitud de cualquiera de los dos Gobiernos y en colaboración con cualquiera de ellos .
"3. Las estipulaciones contenidas en el Artículo 4 del Memorandum de Convenio de 19 de Mayo de 1943 , se consideran cumplidas mediante la contribución de US$ 162,976.77 (S/. 1,056,904.35 ) hecha por el Instituto, y por la contribución de S/ . 1,056,904.35 (US$ 162,976.77 ) hecha por la República del Perú . Las estipulaciones contenidas en el Artículo 3 de la prórroga del Memorandum de Convenio, firmada con fecha 1º de Junio de 1944, se consideran cumplidas como resultado de las contribuciones ascendentes a

61 STAT.]

Dec. 4, 1946 PERU-FOOD PRODUCTION- Jan. 29, 1947

US$ 150,000 (S/ 972,750) y S/. 1,945,500 (US$ 300,000) , hechas por el Instituto y por la República del Perú , respectivamente. Las estipulaciones contenidas en el Artículo 3 de la prórroga del Memorandum de Convenio de fecha 8 de Junio de 1945 , quedarán cumplidas como resultado de las contribuciones de US$ 75,000 (S/. 486,375) , por el Instituto y pagadera a más tardar el 1 ° de Noviembre de 1946 , y de S/ 972,750 (US$ 150,000 ) por la República del Perú a más tardar el 1° de Noviembre de 1946 .

"4. El programa cooperativo de producción de alimentos será financiado por las partes contratantes , durante el plazo de la prórroga comprendido en este Convenio, como sigue :

"A. El Instituto depositará en la cuenta de SCIPA la suma de

Setenticinco Mil ($ 75,000) Dólares (que es el equivalente de S/.

486,375 (Soles Oro ) al tipo de cambio de S/. 6.485 por U. S. dólar,
en las siguientes fechas y por las cantidades anotadas: Dólares

Enero 1º de 1947 Febrero 1º de 1947 Marzo 1º de 1947 Abril 1º de 1947 Mayo 1º de 1947 Junio 1º de 1947 Julio 1º de 1947 Agosto 1º de 1947 Setiembre 1º de 1947 Octubre 1º de 1947 Noviembre 1º de 1947 Diciembre 1º de 1947 Enero 1º de 1948 Febrero 1º de 1948 Marzo 1º de 1948 Abril 1º de 1948 Mayo 1º de 1948 Junio 1º de 1948

4, 200. oo 4, 200.00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. oo 4, 200.00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. oo 4, 200. 00 4, 200. 00 4, 200.00 4, 200. 00 4, 200. oo 4, 200. oo 3, 600. oo

US$ 75, 000. oo
"B. En vista de que muchas de las adquisiciones de materiales , útiles y equipo y otros desembolsos en relación con la ejecución del programa, se efectuarán en los Estados Unidos de América , el Instituto podrá retener, de los depósitos estipulados en el inciso A del Artículo 4, las sumas estimadas que se consideren necesarias para cubrir dichas compras y desembolsos . Cualesquier fondos así retenidos por el Instituto con tal objeto , se considerarán como depositados de acuerdo con los términos de este inciso A, pero si no fuesen gastados o afectados para tales fines , se depositarán a la orden de SCIPA en cualquier momento , estando de común acuerdo el Ministro de Agricultura y el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia en el Perú .
"C. Además de la contribución del Instituto, mencionada en el inciso A, el Instituto proporcionará durante la vigencia de esta prórroga del programa cooperativo , los fondos necesarios para cubrir los sueldos , gastos de mantenimiento, viajes y transporte, y

3341

3342

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

otros gastos administrativos de los miembros que integran la Misión de Producción Alimenticia del Instituto en el Perú. Queda entendido que esta suma no excederá de Doscientos Veinticinco Mil ($ 225,000) Dólares . Estos fondos no serán depositados en la cuenta de SCIPA sino administrados por el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia en el Perú, para los fines indicados y en beneficio del programa cooperativo de producción de alimentos y del desenvolvimiento agrícola del Perú.

"D. La República del Perú depositará en la cuenta de SCIPA el equivalente en moneda peruana, de Cuatrocientos Cincuenta Mil ($ 450,000) Dólares, o sea la suma de Dos Millones, Novecientos

Dieciocho Mil , Doscientos Cincuenta (S/. 2,918,250) Soles , al tipo de

cambio de S/. 6.485 por U. S. Dólar en las siguientes fechas y can-

tidades anotadas:

Soles

Dólares

Enero 1º de 1947 Febrero 1º de 1947 Marzo 1º de 1947 Abril 1º de 1947 Mayo 1º de 1947 Junio 1º de 1947 Julio 1º de 1947 Agosto 1º de 1947 Setiembre 1º de 1947 Octubre 1º de 1947 Noviembre 1º de 1947 Diciembre 1º de 1947 Enero 1º de 1948 Febrero 1º de 1948 Marzo 1º de 1948 Abril 1º de 1948 Mayo 1º de 1948 Junio 1º de 1948

162, 125. oo 162, 125. oo 162, 125. oo 162, 125. oo 162, 125. oo 162, 125. oo 162, 125. oo 162, 125. oo 162, 125. oo 162, 125. oo 162, 125. oo 162, 125. 00 162, 125. oo 162, 125. 00 162, 125. oo 162, 125.00 162, 125. oo 162, 125. oo

25, 000. oo 25, 000. oo 25,000. oo 25, 000, 00 25, 000. oo 25,000. oo 25, 000. 00 25, 000, 00 25,000. oo 25, 000. 00 25,000. oo 25, 000. oo 25, 000. oo 25, 000. 00 25, 000. oo 25, 000. oo 25, 000. oo 25,.000. oo

S/. 2,918, 250. 00 $ 450, 000. oo
"E. Las partes contratantes, mediante convenio por escrito entre el Ministro de Agricultura y el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia, podrán modificar las fechas de depósito fijadas en el Artículo 4, incisos A y D, y acordar hacer los depósitos conforme a las necesidades del programa.
"F. De común acuerdo entre el Ministro de Agricultura y el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia en el Perú, los fondos de SCIPA podrán emplearse para reembolsar o cubrir sueldos , gastos de mantenimiento, viajes y transporte, y otros gastos del personal adicional de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia en el Perú que las partes contratantes crean necesario emplear, además de los empleados a que se refiere el inciso C. arriba mencionado . Dichos fondos podrán ser aportados o concedidos con tal objeto por SCIPA ya sea al Instituto o a cualquiera otra institución , pero en cada caso el Ministro de Agricultura y el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia en el Perú extenderán un convenio de proyecto por escrito , indicando el propósito y otras condiciones necesarias de los referidos aportes o donaciones.

61 STAT. ]

Dec. 4, 1946 PERU-FOOD PRODUCTION- Jan. 29, 1947

"5. El Artículo 7 del Memorandum de Convenio, firmado el 8 de Junio de 1945, queda modificado por el presente, como sigue: Todos los ingresos que incrementen las cuentas de SCIPA, como resultado de las operaciones normales de los proyectos , o por medio de la liquidación de proyectos , o debido a otro origen, seguirán a disposición de SCIPA para el fomento de aquellos proyectos de los cuales provienen tales ingresos , o podrán ser asignados a otros proyectos de SCIPA por mutuo acuerdo entre el Ministro de Agricultura, el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia y el Director de SCIPA. Se conviene, además, que cualquier saldo de los fondos y bienes de SCIPA, que no hubiese sido gastado , utilizado y afectado a la expiración del presente convenio, será empleado de común acuerdo entre el Ministro de Agricultura y el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia del Instituto, teniendo presente las sumas proporcionales aportadas por cada parte contratante.
"6. Los fondos aportados en virtud del presente Memorandum de Convenio habrán de emplearse únicamente para mantener o extender los proyectos de naturaleza tal como los contemplados en el Memorandum de Convenio original, o según modificación posterior por el Artículo 2 del presente Convenio ; cuyos proyectos se formularán, por escrito, en la forma de convenios de proyectos, y serán firmados por el Ministro de Agricultura, el Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia en el Perú, y el Director de SCIPA.
"7. El Artículo 9 del Memorandum de Convenio original, de 19 de Mayo de 1943, queda modificado por el presente, como sigue: Todos los derechos y prerrogativas de que gozan otras dependencias análogas del Gobierno del Perú, así como sus funcionarios y empleados públicos , se harán extensivos a SCIPA, y a todo su personal de empleados en el desempeño de sus funciones de carácter oficial . Los miembros que integran la Misión de Producción Alimenticia del Instituto no estarán obligados a pagar en el Perú ningún impuesto directo , seguro social ni cesantía, en el caso de que estén sujetos al pago de dichos impuestos en los Estados Unidos de América. El Gobierno del Perú permitirá la entrada libre o en su defecto pagará los derechos correspondientes sobre material y equipo necesario para el uso profesional del personal de la Misión . Igualmente, el Gobierno del Perú permitirá la entrada libre o abonará los derechos correspondientes sobre los efectos personales de los miembros de la Misión , de acuerdo con las condiciones limitativas a que están sujetos los miembros del Cuerpo Diplomático acreditado ante el Gobierno del Perú ; para los fines de este Convenio, los miembros de la Misión estarán considerados como Primeros Secretarios del Servicio Diplomático en lo que se refiere a franquicias. Los derechos que excedan dichos límites serán abonados por el personal respectivo . Los derechos de Aduana pagados por SCIPA sobre importaciones de equipo , útiles y materiales para ser empleados en el programa de Producción de Alimentos, serán reembolsados a SCIPA por el Ministro de

3343

3344

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 Stat.

Hacienda, de acuerdo con los comprobantes y recibos respectivos de la Aduana . De igual manera , los derechos pagados por el Instituto sobre importaciones de equipo , útiles y materiales para ser empleados por la Misión de Producción Alimenticia serán reembolsados al Instituto por el Ministro de Hacienda, de acuerdo con los respectivos comprobantes y recibos de la Aduana.
"8. El Jefe de la Misión de Producción Alimenticia del Instituto en el Perú continuará actuando como Director de SCIPA durante la vigencia del presente convenio. A fin de que el personal peruano pueda estar capacitado para asumir, al término de este acuerdo o antes si fuera el caso, la responsabilidad del personal americano por la dirección administrativa y técnica del programa, se dispondrá en forma definida durante la vigencia del presente convenio, la capacitación específica del personal peruano competente, para cada función administrativa de responsabilidad , dentro de la organización de SCIPA.
"9. Los memorandums de Convenios de 19 de Mayo de 1943, 1° de Junio de 1944 y 8 de Junio de 1945 quedan en plena vigencia y surtirán todos sus efectos para los fines de la renovación del programa cooperativo de Producción de Alimentos hasta el 30 de Junio de 1948 , con excepción de las modificaciones contempladas en el presente Convenio o que se opongan a él, y las disposiciones contenidas en dichos convenios se aplicarán durante el plazo de duración de este Convenio . Este Convenio entrará en vigencia en cuanto se produzca un cambio de notas entre los dos Gobiernos.
En fé de lo cual, las partes contratantes extienden este Convenio, en duplicado , por intermedio de sus representantes debidamente autorizados y en los idiomas inglés y castellano, en Lima , Perú, a los cuatro días del mes de Diciembre de 1946 .

p. REPUBLICA DEL PERU
LUIS ROSE U. Ministro de Agricultura

p. INSTITUTO DE ASUNTOS INTER-AMERICANOS ARTHUR R. HARRIS
Presidente

En respuesta, debo manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia, que por Resolución Suprema N° 1219 , expedida por el Ministerio de Agricultura el 30 de Diciembre ppdo . , se aprobó el memorandum de Convenio trascrito en esta Nota.
En consecuencia, esta Nota, junto con la de Vuestra Excelencia, perfeccionan el acuerdo precitado entre los Gobiernos del Perú y de los Estados Unidos de Norte América, que vencerá el 30 de Junio de 1948 .
Aprovecho esta oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia, los sentimientos de mi más alta y distinguida consideración .
E. GARCÍA SAYAN
Al Excelentísimo señor PRENTICE COOPER, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de America. Ciudad.-

61 STAT.]

Dec. 4, 1946 PERU- FOOD PRODUCTION-
Jan. 29, 1947

3345

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS AND WORSHIP

Number: (H) -6-Y/1.

LIMA, January 29, 1947.

MR . AMBASSADOR:

I have the honor to reply to Your Excellency's courteous note No.

278 of December 4 last , in which you are good enough to inform me that on that date the Memorandum of Agreement, the text of which

is transcribed hereinafter, was signed at Lima by Colonel Arthur R. Harris and Mr. Luis Rose Ugarte, Minister of Agriculture:

Ante, p. 3326.

[For the English language text of the Memorandum of Agreement, see pp. 3327-3332 .]

In reply, I must inform Your Excellency that, by Supreme Resolution No. 1219 , issued by the Ministry of Agriculture on December 30 last, the Memorandum of Agreement transcribed in this note was approved.
Accordingly, this note, together with that of Your Excellency, concludes the above-mentioned Agreement between the Governments of Peru and the United States of America, which Agreement will expire on June 30, 1948.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
E. GARCÍA SAYAN
His Excellency PRENTICE COOPER,
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary ofthe United States of America . City.-

INDEX

A
Agriculture, Vocational, cooperative educational program, Brazil..
Aid, Financial. See also Relief Assistance. Greece .. Turkey..
Air Navigation Program, Philippines___ Air Transport Services :
Australia.. Austria___. Canada China.. Ecuador.. Great Britain-
Fiji Island, routes to and from.... Gander Airport , Newfoundland .... Greece ___ Iceland . India__ Ireland Lebanon New Zealand... Peru ... Philippines. Portugal. Siam_ South Africa, Union of.. Turkey... Albania : German reparations _ _ World Health Organization and estab-
lishment of Interim Commission... Allied Forces , armistice with Italy .... American-Philippine Financial Commis-
sion, creation of....... Arabia. See Saudi Arabia. Argentina :
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization , Constitution of..
World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission___
Armed Forces , United States, in Guatemala__.
Armistice, Italian__ Australia :
Air transport services ... German reparations__.

Australia- Continued . Page United Nations Educational, Scientific

2305

and Cultural Organization , Constitution of.......

2907 2953 2864
2464 3241 2869 2799 2773

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission...
Austria : Air transport services__ Relief assistance...
World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ...
Zones of occupation ; administration of City of Vienna .......
Aviation Mission, Military :

3089 3092

El Salvador___. Peru______

2937 2874 2573 2872 2987 2453 2586 2479 3185 2789 3057 2285

B
Belgium : European Coal Organization, prolongation of... German reparations_Philippines, U. S. trade relations with__ United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of.. World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission___
Bermuda, customs privileges at leased

3157

bases in, agreement with Great Britain

Bipartite Finance Committee (United

2349

States-United Kingdom) , authority__

2740 Bolivia:

Philippines, U. S. trade relations with ..

2840 United Nations Educational, Scientific

and Cultural Organization, Constitution of.___.

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission___

2495 Brazil :

Naval mission__

2349 Rice surpluses , Brazilian, purchase...

3289 2740

Rural education, cooperative program of.. United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization, Constitution of____

2464 3157

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ..

CLXXXV

Page
2495 2349 3241 2970 2349 2679 3002 2398
2847 3157 2436
2495 2349 2637 2478 2437
2495 2349 2338 2943 2301
2495 2349

CLXXXVI

INDEX

British Guiana, customs privileges at leased bases in, agreement with Great Britain____
Bulgaria, World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission____
Buttons of Pearl or Shell, importation from Philippines, allotments_
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission____
C Canada :
Air transport services__. Claims, certain , involving government
vessels, waiver of.. German reparations___ Patent rights , RDX and other explo-
sives___ Preparatory Commission for the Inter-
national Refugee Organization____ Reciprocal trade agreement, fox furs and
skins, termination___ Surplus property disposal operations . United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization , Constitution of... World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission___ Caribbean, customs privileges at leased bases in, agreement with Great Britain Chile : Commercial relations__ . United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of......... World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission___ China : Air transport services .. United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization , Constitution of_ __ World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission__ Cigars, importation from Philippines, allotments .. Civil Aeronautics Administration, air navigation program in the Philippines --Civil Aeronautics Board :
Rate agreements, approval, provision in air transport agreements with-
Australia . China India__. New Zealand .
South Africa, Union of--

Page |Claims :

Page

2637 2349

Canada, waiver of certain claims involving government vessels .
Czechoslovakia, provision for compensation....
Great Britain-

2520 2432

2615

Armed forces, members or employees, acts of___
Intergovernmental_ . Union of South Africa . -.

civilian - 2728, 2876
3012 2641

2349 Coal Organization, European, prolongation of..

Coast and Geodetic Program, Philippines.

Coconut Oil, importation from Philippines,

2869

allotments___ .

2847 2852
2615

2520 3157
2949

Colombia : Health and sanitation program__ Naval mission_. United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization , Constitution of__

2880 2413
2495

2525

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission . 2349

3054 Commerce, Department of: 2738 Civil Aeronautics Administration, air

2495 2349 2637 3094

navigation program in Philippines . Civil Aeronautics Board, approval of
rate agreements, provision in air transport agreements withAustralia ... China ... India New Zealand .
South Africa , Union of.. Coast and Geodetic Survey, survey work

2864
2471 2805 2576 2460 3063

2495

and training program in Philippines .

Weather Bureau, meteorological pro-

2349

gram in the Philippines . --

Commercial Policy :

2799 Czechoslovakia ....

Netherlands_ .

Commercial Relations , Chile ....

2852
2858
2431 2424 3094

2495 Copyrights, Time Extension for Fulfilling Conditions and Formalities :
2349 France... New Zealand___

2829 2842

2615 Cordage, importation from Philippines,

allotments__

2615

2864 Costa Rica, World Health Organization

and establishment of Interim Com-

mission__

2349

2471 2805 2576 2460 3063

Cuba : United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization , Constitution of.. World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ..

2495 2349

INDEX

CLXXXVII

a

Customs Duties : Great Britain, certain leased naval and air bases .-Paraguay, reciprocal trade .. Philippines, trade ... Poland, foreign service personnel, reciprocal privileges ----
Czechoslovakia : Commercial policy ---. European Coal Organization, prolongation of...

Page

2637 2688 2612

Ecuador :
Air transport services___. Educational program , cooperative_. Health and sanitation program .......

2297

Publications, official, exchange of United Nations Educational, Scien-
tific and Cultural Organization,

2431

Constitution of_____

2847

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ...

Page
2773 3257 3103 3322
2495 2349

German reparations_ Reparation of nonrepatriable victims
of German action ..
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization , Constitution of..

3157 2649
2495

Education, Cooperative Program of: Brazil Ecuador.... El Salvador....
Educational Foundation, Inc., InterAmerican. See Inter-American Edu-

2301 3257 2660

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission .

cational Foundation, Inc. 2349 Egypt :
German reparations - -

3157

D

Philippines, U. S. trade relations with . 2443

United Nations Educational, Scientific

Damage Claims Resulting From Acts of

Members or Civilian Employees of Armed Forces, Great Britain . 2728, 2876 Death, International Lists of Causes of,

preparation for revision, arrangement

for ....

2351

Denmark :

European Coal Organization, prolongation of...
German reparations_Philippines, U. S. trade relations with. United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization, Constitution of.

2847 3157 2439
2495

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission .. 2349

Displaced Persons. See International

and Cultural Organization, Constitution of ____ World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission .. Eire. See Ireland. El Salvador : Cooperative educational program....... Military aviation mission____ World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission .. England. See Great Britain. Ethiopia : Philippines, U. S. trade relations with World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ... European Coal Organization, prolongation of..

2495 2349
2660 3002 2349
2444 2349 2847

Refugee Organization , Preparatory F
Commission for the.

Distance Measuring Equipment for Telecommunications, Standardization of, Great Britain__.
Dominican Republic : Philippines, U. S. trade relations with.. Preparatory Commission for the International Refugee Organization ... United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of ... World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission__
Double Taxation on Shipping Profits, Relief from, Finland.........

3131 2441

Fascist Organizations, Etc., in Italy, provision for disbandment ...
Federal Works Agency , cooperation of Public Roads Administration in Philippine public roads program_____

2747 2561

2525 2495

Fiji Island, air transport services on routes

to and from, Great Britain .......

3089

Finances, Haiti..

2674, 3097

Financial Commission, Philippines___.

2840

Finland :

2349

Double taxation on shipping profits,

relief from ...

2671

2671

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission___ 2349

CLXXXVIII

INDEX

Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of Page | Great Britain :

Page

the Interior, cooperation with the

Air transport services-

Government of the Philippines in

fishery program.......

2834

Fiji Island, routes to and from_____ 3089 Gander Airport, Newfoundland ................ 3092

Fisheries Mission, Mexico____

2903

Fishery Program, Philippines ... ---

2834

Food Production Program, Peru ... 3123, 3326

Foreign Aid. See also Relief Assistance.

Greece

2907

Turkey ....

2953

Foreign Service Personnel, Reciprocal Customs Privileges for, Poland______ 2297

Fortezza, Gold Captured at, transfer to

Italian Government...

3239

Fox Furs and Skins, termination of reciprocal trade agreement with Canada.. 3054

France :

Austria, zones of occupation and admin-

istration of City of Vienna ........

2679

Copyright conditions and formalities ,

time extension for fulfilling -----

2829

Austria, zones of occupation and administration of City of Vienna ........
Claims-

2679

Armed forces, members or civilian em-

ployees, acts of.... Intergovernmental__.

2728, 2876 3012

Customs privileges at certain leased na-

val and air bases....

2637

Distance measuring equipment for telecommunications, standardization .. 3131

European Coal Organization, prolonga-

tion of.....

2847

German reparations _ -_.

3157

Germany, economic fusion of American and British zones of occupation ... 2475

Gold captured at Fortezza, transfer to

Italian Government____

3239

Italian fleet and mercantile marine,

European Coal Organization, protocol for prolongation of...
German reparations_-

2847 3157

Industrial property rights , certain,

restoration__.

3316

Italy, German property in, liquidation . 3292

Passport visa fees..

2795

Preparatory Commission for the Inter-

national Refugee Organization____ 2525

Reparation of nonrepatriable victims of

German action___.

2649, 3171

disposition. -.-. Italian military armistice.. Italy, German property in, liquidation . Marine transportation and litigation ... Reparation of nonrepatriable victims of
German action_..
Rice surpluses , Brazilian, purchase . Surrender instrument, Italy..
Protocol.... Sweden, German property in, liquida-
tion _ __

2766 2740 3292 3014
2649 2943 2742 2761
3191

Sweden, German property in, liquidation.....
United Nations Educational, Scientific

3191

United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of....

2495

and Cultural Organization, Consti-

tution of__---

2495

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission... 2349

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ...
Friendship and Commerce, Nepal_----.

Greece : 2349 Aid to ---2566 Air transport services _ - _-

2907 2937

European Coal Organization, prolonga-

G

tion of

2847

German reparations_

3157

Gander Airport, Newfoundland, air transport services, agreement with Great Britain respecting ----

3092

German Action, Nonrepatriable Victims

of, reparation to...

2649, 3171

German Property, Liquidation : Italy . Sweden ....
German Reparations____ Germany, American and British Zones of
Occupation in, economic fusion of....

3292 3191 3157
2475

Relief assistance__ United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization, Constitution of..
World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ...
Guatemala : Preparatory Commission for the International Refugee Organization .... United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of....

3017 2495 2349 2525 2495

Gold, Monetary, restitution by Germany.. 3180 United States armed forces in____.

3289

Gold Captured at Fortezza, transfer to

Italian Government..

3239

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ... 2349

INDEX

CLXXXIX

H

Page Inter-Governmental Committee on Ref- Page

Haiti :

Finances_

2674, 3097

United Nations Educational, Scientific

and Cultural Organization, Con-

stitution of...

2495

ugees, funds placed at disposal of;

use..

2650, 3207

Interim Commission of the World Health

Organization ....

2349

Interior, Department of the, Fish and

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ...
Health and Sanitation Program :

2349

Wildlife Service, cooperation with the Government of the Philippines in fishery program ---

2834

Colombia..--

2880 Internal Revenue Code, section 2470,

Ecuador... Honduras Peru ..... Venezuela.. Honduras :

3103 2319, 3114 2484, 2961
3271

action under agreement with the Philippines ... International Civil Aviation Organization, Provisional: Agreements, registry with .

2617 2287,

Health and sanitation program.......... 2319, 3114

2457, 2468, 2481 , 2580, 2588, 2776, 2791,

Preparatory Commission for the Inter-

2802, 2939, 2989, 3061 , 3093, 3243

national Refugee Organization ---- 2525 World Health Organization and estab-
lishment of Interim Commission . 2349

Interim Council, settlement of disputes,

advisory report . - -

2457,

2468, 2580, 2588, 2776, 2791 , 2802,

2939, 2990

I Iceland :
Air transport services .. Termination of defense agreement of
July 1 , 1941 , and provision for

2874

Rates, failure of agreement on, reference

for advisory report, provision in air

transport agreements with-

Australia..

2473, 2474

China..

2806

interim use of Keflavik airport .

2426

Immigration, provisions in agreement with

India .. New Zealand ..

2578 2462, 2463

the Philippines .......... India :

2618 International Labour Organization, Director of the, consultative relation to

Air transport services ... German reparations..

2573 3157

Preparatory Commission for the International Refugee Organization ... 2526

United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of

International Refugee Organization, Preparatory Commission for the_____
2495 Iran :

2525

World Health Organization and estab-

Military mission .......

3306

lishment of Interim Commission... 2349 United Nations Educational, Scientific

Industrial Property Rights, Certain, Res-

toration, France...

3316

and Cultural Organization, Con-

stitution of

2495

Institute of Inter-American Affairs :
Food production program, Peru ... Health and sanitation program-
Colombia.. Ecuador.. Honduras

3123, 3326
2880 3104 2319, 3114

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ...
Iraq: United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of..

2349 2495

Peru .... Venezuela ..

2484, 2961 3271

Inter-Allied Reparation Agency, establish-

ment, functions, etc ..

3174

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ...
Ireland : Air transport services ..

2349 2872

Inter-American Affairs, Institute of. See Institute of Inter-American Affairs .

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ... 2349

Interamerican Cooperative Service of Public Health, provision for ... -----
Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc.:
Cooperative educational programBrazil... Ecuador..... El Salvador..........

Italy : 2334 Armistice....

2305 3261 2660

German property in , liquidation .......... Gold captured at Fortezza, transfer to
Italian Government....
Italian fleet and mercantile marine, disposition..
Relief program....

2740 3292
3239
2766 3135

CXC

INDEX

Italy-Continued . Surrender instrument_ Protocol... World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission___
J

Page Luxembourg-Continued. 2742 German reparations .......... 2761 United Nations Educational, Scientific

2349

and Cultural Organization , Constitution of..

World Health Organization and estab-

lishment of Interim Commission...

Page 3157
2495 2349

Japanese Mandated Islands, Former, trusteeship agreement approved by Security Council of United Nations .
Jewish Victims of Nazi Action, allocation of funds for rehabilitation and resettlement ---
Joint Export-Import Agency (United States-United Kingdom) , functions , etc., under agreement respecting fusion of American and British zones of occupation in Germany..
Jugoslavia. See Yugoslavia.
K
Keflavik, Iceland, Airport, provision for interim use....
L
Labour Organization, International, Director of the, consultative relation to Preparatory Commission for the International Refugee Organization .
League of Nations Health Organization, transfer of certain duties and functions to Interim Commission of World Health Organization, arrangement for.
Lebanon : Air transport services ... United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of.. World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission___
Lend-Lease : Claims, intergovernmental, settlement of.... Union of South Africa, settlement for..
Liberia : Preparatory Commission for the International Refugee Organization_____ United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization , Constitution of.. World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission...
Luxembourg : European Coal Organization, prolongation of...

M

3301 Marine Transportation and Litigation,

Great Britain

3014

Mesopotamia. See Iraq. 2650 Meteorological Program, Philippines .
Mexico : Fisheries mission____.

2858 2903

2475

United Nations Educational, Scientific

and Cultural Organization , Consti-

tution of...

2495

2426

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission...
Military Assistance, Philippines___ Military Aviation Mission:
El Salvador___. Peru ..

2349 3283
3002 2398

Military Mission, Iran......

3306

Monetary Gold, restitution by Germany.. Morbidity, International Lists of Causes
of, establishment, arrangement for preparatory work.... Multilateral Agreements, Etc.:

3180 2351

2526 2350

Austria, zones of occupation and administration of City of Vienna...
European Coal Organization.... German action, reparation to nonrepa-
triable victims of.. German reparations ... --

2679 2847
2649 3157

2987

Italy-

Armistice, military ...

2740

Fleet and mercantile marine, dis-

2495 2349

position.. German property in, liquidation ---Gold captured at Fortezza, transfer
to Italian Government... Surrender instrument..
Protocol..

2766 3292
3239 2742 2761

3012 2641

Preparatory Commission for the International Refugee Organization ---- 2525

Sweden, liquidation of German property

in _...

3191

2525 United Nations Educational, Scientific

and Cultural Organization, Con-

stitution of..

2495

2495

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission.. 2349

2349 Mussolini, Benito, provision for apprehen-

sion and surrender_

2747, 2761

Mutual Aid Settlement, Union of South

2847

Africa...

2640

INDEX

CXCI

N Naval Mission :
Brazil .. Colombia Nepal, friendship and commerce.. Netherlands : Commercial policy . European Coal Organization, prolonga-
tion of.. German reparations .United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization, Constitution of......... World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission___ New Zealand : Air transport services . Copyright conditions and formalities, time extension for fulfilling.. German reparations - - United Nations Educational , Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of .... World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission _ _ _ _ Newfoundland, Gander Airport, air transport services , agreement with Great Britain Nicaragua : United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization , Constitution of......... . World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission... Norway : European Coal Organization, prolongation of ... German reparations_ Passport visa fees .. Philippines, U. S. trade relations with.. United Nations Educational , Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of.. World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission..
0
Occupation Zones in Germany, American and British, economic fusion of, agreement with Great Britain ..
Office International d'Hygiène publique, transfer of duties, functions , etc. , arrangement for.............
P
Pacific Islands, Trusteeship Agreement for ...

Page Panama :

Page

2338 2413

United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of

2495

2566

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission__ 2349

2424
2847 3157

Paraguay : Reciprocal trade___. World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ...

2688 2349

Paris Agreement on Reparations, funds

2495 2349

made available by Sweden for allocation among parties to ... Passport Visa Fees : France...

Norway .

3207
2795 3101

2453 Patent Rights, RDX and Other Explosives,

Canada ..

2949

2842 Patents, Etc., Extension of Time for Tak-

3157

ing Action, France....

Persia. See Iran.

3316

2495 2349

Peru : Air transport services... Food production program.... Extension . - Health and sanitation program... Military aviation mission .__.

2586 3123 3326 2484, 2961 2398

3092

United Nations Educational , Scientific and Cultural Organization , Constitution of.......

2495

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission___ 2349

2495 2349
2847 3157

Philippine Rehabilitation Act of Agreements Under :
Air navigation program.... Coast and geodetic program. Fishery program__ Meteorological program Public roads program..

1946 ,

2864 2852 2834 2858 2561

3101 Philippine Rehabilitation Act of 1946,

2446

Title I, assistance by Philippines

in carrying out ...

Philippine Trade Act of 1946, agreement

2495

made pursuant to ---

2620 2611

Philippine War Damage Commission, of-

2349

fenses relative to Title I of Philippine

Rehabilitation Act of 1946 , considera-

tion as offenses under laws of Philip-

pines ...

Philippines :

2475

Air navigation program.... Air transport services ... Coast and geodetic program.

2350

Financial Commission .. Fishery program... Meteorological program_

Military assistance__

3301

Preparatory Commission for the International Refugee Organization ....

2620
2864 2479 2852 2840 2834 2858 3283
2525

CXCII

INDEX

Philippines- Continued. Public roads program.. Trade___

Page | Relief Assistance : 2561 Austria... 2611 Greece

Page 2970 3017

Protocol... Trade relations with, understandings
respecting ....

2622 Italy...

Reparation to Nonrepatriable Victims of

2436

German Action__

3135 2649

United Nations Educational, Scientific

Reparations, Paris Agreement on, funds

and Cultural Organization, Constitution of.......
World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ...

2495 2349

made available by Sweden for allocation among parties to ... Reparations From Germany. Rice :

3207 3157

Poland :

Brazilian surpluses, purchase of

2943

European Coal Organization, prolonga-

tion of...

2847

Philippines, importation from , allot-

ments...

2615

Foreign service personnel, reciprocal

Roads, public roads program in Philip-

customs privileges ..

2297

pines ----

2561

United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of...
World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission___

Rural Education, Cooperative Program of, Brazil.....

2495 Russia. See Soviet Socialist Republics, Union of.

2349

S

2301

Portugal : Air transport services ...

3185 Salvador. See El Salvador.

Philippines, U. S. trade relations with 2447 Sanitation. See Health and Sanitation

World Health Organization and estab-

Program .

lishment of Interim Commission___ 2349 Saudi Arabia :

Preparatory Commission for the International Refugee Organization....
Prisoners of War, Etc., provision in Italian terms of surrender ..
Public Roads Program, Philippines . Publications, Official, Exchange of:
Ecuador___ Siam..

2525

United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of..........

2748 2561

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ..

Shipping Profits, Relief From Double Tax-

3322

ation on, Finland ............

3154 Siam :

2495 2349 2671

Air transport services ..

2789

R

Publications, official, exchange of.......... 3154

Radio Frequency Bands Used for Distance

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission.. 2349

Measuring Equipment, Great Britain . 3131 South Africa, Union of:

RDX and Other Explosives, Patent Rights, Canada ...
Reciprocal Aid :

2949

Air transport services . German reparations-Mutual aid settlement ..

3057 3157 2640

Claims, intergovernmental, settlement of....
Union of South Africa, settlement for..

3012 2641

United Nations Educational , Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of..

2495

Reciprocal Trade Agreements : Canada, fox furs and skins , termination_ 3054

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission .. 2349

Paraguay .

2688 Soviet Socialist Republics, Union of:

Refugee Organization, International, Preparatory Commission for the............... 2525
Refugees, Inter- Governmental Committee on :

Austria, zones of occupation and administration of City of Vienna .----.
World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission..

2679 2349

Director of, consultative relation to Preparatory Commission for the

Spain, U. S. trade relations with the Philip-

pines ...

2449

International Refugee Organization. 2526 Sugar, importation from Philippines, allot-

Funds made available ; use------ 2650, 3207

ments.

2614, 2615

INDEX

CXCIII

Surplus Property Disposal Operations , Canada
Surplus War Property, Settlement for, Union of South Africa ..
Surrender Instrument, Italy .. Protocol...
Sweden, liquidation of German property in___.
Switzerland, World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ____
Syria : United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of __-World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ...
T
Telecommunications, Standardization of Distance Measuring Equipment, Great Britain__.
Thailand. See Siam. Tobacco, Scrap and Filler, importation
from Philippines, allotments ... Trade Agreement With the Philippines ...
Protocol_____ Trade Agreements, Reciprocal :
Canada, fox furs and skins, termination . Paraguay ... Trade Relations With Philippines, under-
standings respecting .. Transjordan, World Health Organization
and establishment of Interim Commission .... Trusteeship Agreement for Pacific Islands . Turkey : Aid to .. Air transport services .. European Coal Organization, prolon-
gation of... United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization, Constitution of ....... World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ..
U
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ____
UNESCO. See United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.

Page Union of South Africa. See South Africa,

2738

Union of.

Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. See

2641

Soviet Socialist Republics, Union of.

2742 United Kingdom. See Great Britain .

2761 United Nations :

3191

Greece, aid to , registry of agreement ... Interim Commission of World Health

2349

Organization, transfer of certain functions, arrangement for ... Italian fleet and mercantile marine, disposition, memorandum of agreement ...

2495 2349

Italian military armistice ... New Zealand, air transport agreement
with, registry . Surrender instrument, Italy..
Protocol...--

Turkey, aid to, registry of agreement . United Nations Educational, Scientific and

Cultural Organization, Constitution of.......

3131 United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration :

2615
2611 2622

Director-General, consultative relation to Preparatory Commission for the International Refugee Organization _...

Interim Commission of the World

3054 2688
2436

Health Organization, transfer of certain duties and functions to, arrangement for... United Nations Security Council, approval

of trusteeship agreement for Pacific Islands ...

2349 United States Armed Forces in Guate-

3301

mala..

2953 2285
2847

Uruguay : United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of...-. World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission..

2495

2349 Venezuela : Health and sanitation program...

United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Constitution of..

2349

World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission..

Vessels, Government, Waiver of Certain Claims Involving, Canada_._.

Vienna, City of, administration of................

Page
2930 2350 2766 2740 2457 2742 2761 2955 2495
2526
2350 3301 3289
2495 2349
3271 2495 2349 2520 2679

CXCIV

INDEX

Visa Fees, Passport: France.. Norway-
W
War Criminals, Apprehension, Etc., provision in Italian instrument of surrender ...
Weather Bureau, Department of Commerce, meteorological program in the Philippines . ---
World Health Organization and Establishment of Interim Commission ...................

Page 2795 3101

I Yugoslavia:
German reparations............

Philippines, U. S. trade relations with__

2747

Reparation to nonrepatriable victims of German action____
United Nations Educational, Scientific

2858 2349

and Cultural Organization, Constitution of..
World Health Organization and establishment of Interim Commission ..

Page 3157 2451 2649
2495 2349

868053856086805

THE OSU COLLEGE OF LAW LIBRARY 3 2437 01094 0407

