This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

KANGROIWCLULETDUGREE
LIBRARY ofthe OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY

UNITED

STATES

STATUTES AT CONTAINING THE

LARGE

LAWS AND CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS ENACTED DURING THE FIRST SESSION OF THE
EIGHTIETH CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

1947 AND
PROCLAMATIONS, TREATIES , INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES ,
REORGANIZATION PLANS , AND PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION

COMPILED, EDITED, INDEXED, AND PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF LAW UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE

VOLUME 61 IN SIX PARTS

PART 5 INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES
(GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE )

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1948

ERR v. 61, pt. 5
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C.
Price $7.50 (Buckram)

CONTENTS
FINAL ACT (ENGLISH AND FRENCH LANGUAGE TEXTS) . English Language Text :
GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE .. INDEX TO LIST OF SCHEDULES . INDEX

Page A7
A11 A91 A-I iii

23348

GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE
(in two parts, with the documents arranged in the order of the original compilation deposited with the United Nations)
Part 5, 61 Stat., contains the Final Act (in both English and French) , the English authentic texts, and the revised translations by the Department of State of the parts of this agreement in which only the French texts are authentic .
Part 6, 61 Stat. , contains the French authentic texts and the Protocol of Provisional Application (in both English and French) .
iv

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS
OTHER THAN TREATIES
FIRST SESSION OF THE EIGHTIETH CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, January 3, 1947, and adjourned sine die on Friday, December 19, 1947
HARRY S. TRUMAN , President ; ARTHUR H. VANDENBERG, President of the Senate pro tempore; JOSEPH W. MARTIN, Jr. , Speaker of the House of Representatives.
October 30, 1947 Protocol of Provisional Application of the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade, signed at Geneva October 30, 1947, for the United [T.I.A.S. 1700, VOL. I] States of America, Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Luxemburg, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; open for signature at the Headquarters of the United Nations until June 30, 1948; effective January 1, 1948, with respect to the United States of America, Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Luxemburg, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated at Geneva October 30, 1947; open for deposit of instruments of acceptance with the Secretary- General of the United Nations. And a Final Act, signed at Geneva October 30, 1947, at the conclusion of the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment. [1] [For agreements in this volume supplementary to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, see 61 Stat ., Pt . 4, p. 3689 (Belgium) , p. 3695 (Canada) , p . 3699 (uba) , p. 3715 ( France) , p. 3721 (Netherlands) , and p. 3725 (United Kingdom) . ]
A3

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A5

FINAL ACT adopted at the conclusion of the
SECOND SESSION OF THE PREPARATORY COMMITTEE of the
UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON TRADE AND EMPLOYMENT

ACTE

FINAL

de la

DEUXIÈME SESSION DE LA COMMISSION PRÉPARATOIRE de la
CONFÉRENCE DES NATIONS UNIES SUR LE COMMERCE ET L'EMPLOI

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A7

FINAL ACT
In accordance with the Resolution adopted at the First Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment, established by the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations on February 18 , 1946 ,
The Governments of the COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA, the KINGDOM OF BELGIUM, the UNITED STATES OF BRAZIL, BURMA, CANADA, CEYLON, the REPUBLIC OF CHILE, the REPUBLIC OF CHINA, the REPUBLIC OF CUBA, the CZECHOSLOVAK Republic , the FRENCH REPUBLIC, INDIA, LEBANON, the GRAND- DUCHY OF LUXEMBURG, the KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS , NEW ZEALAND, the KINGDOM OF NORWAY, PAKISTAN, SOUTHERN RHODESIA, SYRIA, the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA, the UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND, and the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Initiated negotiations between their representatives, at Geneva on April 10, 1947, directed to the substantial reduction of tariffs and other trade barriers and to the elimination of preferences, on a reciprocal and mutually advantageous basis. These negotiations have terminated today and have resulted in the framing of a General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and of a Protocol of Provisional Application, the texts of which are annexed hereto. These texts are hereby authenticated.
The signature of this Final Act, or of the Protocol ofProvisional Application, by any of the above-mentioned Governments does not in any way prejudice their freedom of action at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment.
This Final Act, including the texts of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and of the Protocol of Provisional Application, will be released by the Secretary-General of the United Nations for publication on November 18, 1947 , provided that the Protocol of Provisional Application shall have been signed by November 15, 1947 , on behalf of all the countries named therein.

ACTE FINAL
Conformément à la résolution adoptée lors de la première session de la Commission préparatoire de la Conférence des Nations Unies sur le Commerce et l'Emploi, constituée le 18 février 1946 par le Conseil économique et social des Nations Unies ,
Les Gouvernements du COMMONWEALTH D'AUSTRALIE, du ROYAUME DE BELGIQUE, des ETATS- UNIS DU BRÉSIL, de la BIRMANIE, du CANADA, de CEYLAN, de la RÉPUBLIQUE DU CHILI, de la RÉPUBLIQUE DE CHINE, de la RÉPUBLIQUE DE CUBA, des ETATSUNIS D'AMÉRIQUE, de la RÉPUBLIQUE FRANÇAISE, de l'INDE, du LIBAN, du GRAND-DUCHÉ DE LUXEMBOURG, du ROYAUME DE NORVÈGE , de la NouVELLE- ZÉLANDE, du PAKISTAN, du ROYAUME DES PAYS-BAS, de la RODÉSIE DU SUD, du ROYAUME-UNI DE GRANDE-BRETAGNE ET d'IRLANDE DU NORD, de la SYRIE, de la RÉPUBLIQUE TCHÉCOSLOVAQUE et de l'UNION SUD-AFRICAINE,
Ont engagé à Genève, le 10 avril 1947 , par l'entremise de leurs représentants, des négociations en vue de réduire, d'une façon substantielle, les tarifs douaniers et les autres entraves au commerce et
d'éliminer les préférences, sur une base de réciprocité et d'avantages mutuels. Ces négociations ont pris fin aujourd'hui et ont abouti à l'élaboration d'un Accord général sur les tarifs douaniers et le commerce et d'un Protocole d'application provisoire, dont les textes sont join's au présent acte. L'authenticité de ces textes est établie par le présent Acte .
La signature, par les gouvernements susmentionnés, du présent Acte final ou du Protocole d'application provisoire ne porte atteinte en aucune manière à leur liberté d'action à la Conférence des Nations Unies sur le Commerce et l'Emploi.
Le présent Acte final, ainsi que le
texte de l'Accord général sur les tarifs douaniers et le commerce et celui du Protocole d'application provisoire seront publiés le 18 novembre 1947 par les soins du Secrétaire général des Nations Unies, à la condition que le Protocole d'application provisoire ait été signé le 15 novembre 1947 au nom de tous les pays énumérés dans ce Protocole.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT. A8

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the respective Representatives have signed the present Act.
DONE at Geneva, in a single copy, in the English and French languages, both texts authentic , this thirtieth day of October, one thousand nine hundred and forty- seven.

EN FOI DE QUOI les représentants des gouvernements susmentionnés ont signé le présent Acte.
FAIT à Genève, en un seul exemplaire, en langues française et anglaise, les deux, textes faisant également foi, le trente octobre mil neuf cent quarante-sept.

For the Commonwealth of Australia : C. E. Morton
For the Kingdom of Belgium : P. A. Forthomme
For the United States of Brazil : A. de Ferreira Braga
For Burma : Maung Nyun
For Canada : L. D. Wilgress
For Ceylon : J. Corea

Pour le Commonwealth d'Australie : Pour le Royaume de Belgique : Pour les Etats- Unis du Brésil : Pour la Birmanie : Pour le Canada : Pour Ceylan :

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A9

For the Republic of Chile : A. Faivovich
For the Republic of China : Wunsz King
For the Republic of Cuba : Sergio I. Clark
For the Czechoslovak Republic : Z. Augenthaler
For the French Republic : Pierre Baraduc

Pour la République du Chili : Pour la République de Chine : Pour la République de Cuba : Pour la République tchécoslovaque : Pour la République française :

For India: S. Ranganathan
For Lebanon : J. Mikaoui
For the Grand-Duchy of Luxemburg : J. Sturm

Pour l'Inde : Pour le Liban : Pour le Grand-Duché de Luxembourg :

A10

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

For the Kingdom of the Netherlands : A. B. Speekenbrink
For New Zealand : J. P. D. Jonnsen

Pour le Royaume des Pays-Bas: Pour la Nouvelle- Zélande :

For the Kingdom of Norway: Erik Colban

Pour le Royaume de Norvège :

For Pakistan : H. I. Rahimtoola

Pour le Pakistan :

For Southern Rhodesia :

Pour la Rhodésie du Sud :

K. M. Goodenough For Syria:
H. Jabbara

Pour la Syrie :

For the Union of South Africa : W. G. W. Parminter

Pour l'Union Sud-Africaine :

For the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland :

Pour le Royaume- Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord :

T. M. Snow

For the United States of America : Winthrop Brown

Pour les Etats- Unis d'Amérique :

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

All

GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE
The Governments of the Commonwealth of Australia , the Kingdom of Belgium, the United States of Brazil , Burma , Canada , Ceylon , the Republic of Chile , the Republic of China , the Republic of Cuba , the Czechoslovak Republic , the French Republic , India , Lebanon , the Grand Duchy of Luxemburg , the Kingdom of the Netherlands , New Zealand , the Kingdom of Norway , Pakistan , Southern Rhodesia , Syria , the Union of South Africa , the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and the United States of America :
Recognizing that their relations in the field of trade and economic endeavour should be conducted with a view to raising standards of living , ensuring full employment and a large and steadily growing volume of real income and effective demand , developing the full use of the resources of the world and expanding the production and exchange of goods ;
Being desirous of contributing to these objectives by entering into reciprocal and mutually advantageous arrangements directed to the substantial reduction of tariffs and other barriers to trade and to the elimination of discriminatory treatment in international commerce ;
Have through their Representatives agreed as follows :

A12

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

PART I Article I General Most - Favoured - Nation Treatment

1.

With respect to customs duties and charges of any kind

imposed on or in connection with importation or exportation

or imposed on the international transfer of payments for

imports or exports , and with respect to the method of levying

such duties and charges , and with respect to all rules and formalities in connection with importation and exportation,

and with respect to all matters referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article III , [1] any advantage , favour , privilege or

immunity granted by any contracting party to any product originating in or destined for any other country shall be

accorded immediately and unconditionally to the like product originating in or destined for the territories of all other contracting parties .

2.

The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not

require the elimination of any preferences in respect of

import duties or charges which do not exceed the levels

provided for in paragraph 3 of this Article and which fall within the following descriptions :

( a ) preferences in force exclusively between two or more

of the territories listed in Annex A , [2] subject to the conditions set forth therein ;

(b) preferences in force exclusively between two or more

territories which on July 1 , 1939 , were connected by common sovereignty or relations of protection or

suzerainty and which are listed in Annexes B , C and D , [3] subject to the conditions set forth therein ;

1 [Post, p. A85. ] 2 [Post, p. A76. ]
[Post, pp. 478, 179, 480. ]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A13

( c ) preferences in force exclusively between the United States of America and the Republic of Cuba ;
( d) preferences in force exclusively between neighbouring countries listed in Annexes E and F. ( ' ]
3. The margin of preference [ 2 ] on any product in respect of which a preference is permitted under paragraph 2 of this Article but is not specifically set forth as a maximum margin of preference in the appropriate Schedule annexed to this Agreement shall not exceed
(a) in respect of duties or charges on any product described in such Schedule , the difference between the mostfavoured- nation and preferential rates provided for therein ; if no preferential rate is provided for , the preferential rate shall for the purposes of this paragraph be taken to be that in force on April 10 , 1947 , and , if no most - favoured- nation rate is provided for , the margin shall not exceed the difference between the most-favoured- nation and preferential rates existing on April 10, 1947 ;
(b) in respect of duties or charges on any product not described in the appropriate Schedule , the difference between the most-favoured- nation and preferential rates existing on April 10 , 1947 . In the case of the contracting parties named in
Annex G , [3 ] the date of April 10 , 1947 , referred to in subparagraphs ( a ) and ( b ) of this paragraph shall be replaced by the respective dates set forth in that Annex.
¹ [Post, pp. 481 , 482. ] [Post, p. A85 . ]
3 [Post, p. A83 .]

95347 0-49-pt . 5- -2

A14

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Article II Schedules of Concessions
1. ( a ) Each contracting party shall accord to the commerce of the other contracting parties treatment no less favourable than that provided for in the appropriate Part of the appropriate Schedule annexed to this Agreement .
(b) The products described in Part I of the Schedule relating to any contracting party , which are the products of territories of other contracting parties , shall , on their importation into the territory to which the Schedule relates , and subject to the terms , conditions or qualifications set forth in that Schedule , be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of those set forth and provided for therein . Such products shall also be exempt from all other duties or charges of any kind imposed on or in connection with importation in excess of those imposed on the date of this Agreement or those directly and mandatorily required to be imposed thereafter by legislation in force in the importing territory on that date .
(c ) The products described in Part II of the Schedule relating to any contracting party , which are the products of territories entitled under Article I to receive preferential treatment upon importation into the territory to which the Schedule relates , shall , on their importation into such territory , and subject to the terms , conditions or qualifications set forth in that Schedule , be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of those set forth and provided for in Part II of that Schedule . Such products shall also be exempt from all other duties or charges of any kind imposed

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A15

on or in connection with importation in excess of those

imposed on the date of this Agreement or those directly and

mandatorily required to be imposed thereafter by legislation

in force in the importing territory on that date . Nothing

in this Article shall prevent any contracting party from

maintaining its requirements existing on the date of this

Agreement as to the eligibility of goods for entry at

preferential rates of duty .

2.

Nothing in this Article shall prevent any contracting

party from imposing at any time on the importation of any

product

(a ) a charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article III in respect of the like domestic product or in respect of an article from which the imported product has been manufactured or produced in whole or in part ;

( b) any anti- dumping or countervailing duty applied consistently with the provisions of Article VI ; []
( c ) fees or other charges commensurate with the cost of services rendered .

3.

No contracting party shall alter its method of deter-

mining dutiable value or of converting currencies so as to

impair the value of any of the concessions provided for in

the appropriate Schedule annexed to this Agreement .

4.

If any contracting party establishes , maintains or

authorizes , formally or in effect , a monopoly ofthe

importation of any product described in the appropriate

Schedule annexed to this Agreement , such monopoly shall

not , except as provided for in that Schedule or as otherwise 1 [Post, p. 486. ]

A16

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

agreed between the parties which initially negotiated the concession , operate so as to afford protection on the average in excess of the amount of protection provided for in that Schedule . The provisions of this paragraph shall not limit

the use by contracting parties of any form of assistance to domestic producers permitted by other provisions of this Agreement . [ ']

5.

If any contracting party considers that a product is

not receiving from another contracting party the treatment which the first contracting party believes to have been contemplated by a concession provided for in the appropriate

Schedule annexed to this Agreement , it shall bring the matter

directly to the attention of the other contracting party . If the latter agrees that the treatment contemplated was that

claimed by the first contracting party , but declares that such treatment cannot be accorded because a court or other proper

authority has ruled to the effect that the product involved cannot be classified under the tariff laws of such contracting

party so as to permit the treatment contemplated in this

Agreement , the two contracting parties , together with any other contracting parties substantially interested , shall

enter promptly into further negotiations with a view to a compensatory adjustment of the matter . 6. ( a ) The specific duties and charges included in the

Schedules relating to contracting parties members of the International Monetary Fund , and margins of preference in specific duties and charges maintained by such contracting parties , are expressed in the appropriate currency at the par value accepted or provisionally recognized by the Fund

1 [Post, p . A86. ]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A17

at the date of this Agreement . Accordingly , in case this

par value is reduced consistently with the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund [ ' ] by more than

twenty per centum , such specific duties and charges and margins of preference may be adjusted to take account of such reduction ;

Provided that the CONTRACTING PARTIES ( 1.e. the contracting parties acting jointly as provided for in Article XXV ) concur that such adjustments will not impair the value of the concessions provided for in the appropriate Schedule or elsewhere in this Agreement , due account being taken of all factors which may influence the need for , or urgency of ,

such adjustments . (b) Similar provisions shall apply to any contracting
party not a member of the Fund , as from the date on which such contracting party becomes a member of the Fund or enters

into a special exchange agreement in pursuance of Article XV .

7.

The Schedules annexed to this Agreement are hereby made

an integral part of Part I of this Agreement .

[ 60 Stat. 1401. ]

A18

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

PART II Article III National Treatment on Internal Taxation and Regulation

1.

The products of the territory of any contracting party

imported into the territory of any other contracting party shall

be exempt from internal taxes and other internal charges of any

kind in excess of those applied directly or indirectly to like

products of national origin . Moreover , in cases in which there

is no substantial domestic production of like products of

national origin , no contracting party shall apply new or increased

internal taxes on the products of the territories of other

contracting parties for the purpose of affording protection to

the production of directly competitive or substitutable products

which are not similarly taxed ; and existing internal taxes of

this kind shall be subject to negotiation for their reduction or

elimination .

2.

The products of the territory of any contracting party

imported into the territory of any other contracting party shall be accorded treatment no less favourable than that accorded to

like products of national origin in respect of all laws , regulations and requirements affecting their internal sale , offering for sale , purchase , transportation , distribution , or use . The

provisions of this paragraph shall not prevent the application of differential transportation charges which are based exclusively on the economic operation of the means of transport and not on the nationality of the product .

3.

In applying the principles of paragraph 2 of this Article to

internal quantitative regulations relating to the mixture ,

processing or use of products in specified amounts or proportions ,

the contracting parties shall observe the following provisions :

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A19

( a) no regulations shall be made which , formally or in

effect , require that any specified amount or proportion of the product in respect of which such regulations are applied must be supplied from domestic sources ; (b) no contracting party shall , formally or in effect , restrict the mixing , processing or use of a product of which there is no substantial domestic production with

a view to affording protection to the domestic production

of a directly competitive or substitutable product .

4.

The provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article shall not

apply to:

(a) any measure of internal quantitative control in force in the territory of any contracting party on July 1 ,

1939 or April 10 , 1947 , at the option of that contracting party ; Provided that any such measure which would be in conflict with the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article shall not be modified to the detriment of

imports and shall be subject to negotiation for its limitation , liberalization or elimination ;

(b) any internal quantitative regulation relating to exposed cinematograph films and meeting the requirements of Article IV .

5.

The provisions of this Article shall not apply to the pro-

curement by governmental agencies of products purchased for

governmental purposes and not for resale or use in the production

of goods for sale , nor shall they prevent the payment to domestic

producers only of subsidies provided for under Article XVI ,

including payments to domestic producers derived from the proceeds

of internal taxes or charges and subsidies effected through

governmental purchases of domestic products .

A20

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Article IV Special Provisions relating to Cinematograph Films If any contracting party establishes or maintains internal quantitative regulations relating to exposed cinematograph films , such regulations shall take the form of screen quotas which shall conform to the following requirements : (a) screen quotas may require the exhibition of cinemato-
graph films of national origin during a specified minimum proportion of the total screen time actually utilized , over a specified period of not less than one year , in the commercial exhibition of all films of whatever origin , and shall be computed on the basis of screen time per theatre per year or the equivalent thereof ; (b) with the exception of screen time reserved for films of national origin under a screen quota , screen time including that released by administrative action from screen time reserved for films of national origin , shall not be allocated formally or in effect among sources of supply ; (c) notwithstanding the provisions of sub- paragraph ( b) of this Article , any contracting party may maintain screen quotas conforming to the requirements of subparagraph ( a ) of this Article which reserve a minimum proportion of screen time for films of a specified origin other than that of the contracting party imposing such screen quotas ; Provided that no such minimum proportion of screen time shall be increased above the level in effect on April 10 , 1947 ; (d) screen quotas shall be subject to negotiation for their limitation , liberalization or elimination .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A21

Article V

Freedom of Transit

1.

Goods ( including baggage ) , and also vessels and other

means of transport , shall be deemed to be in transit across the territory of a contracting party when the passage across

such territory , with or without trans - shipment , warehousing ,

breaking bulk , or change in the mode of transport , is only a

portion of a complete journey beginning and terminating

beyond the frontier of the contracting party across whose territory the traffic passes . Traffic of this nature is termed

in this Article " traffic in transit " .

2.

There shall be freedom of transit through the territory

of each contracting party , via the routes most convenient for

international transit , for traffic in transit to or from the territory of other contracting parties . No distinction shall be

made which is based on the flag of vessels , the place of origin ,

departure , entry , exit or destination , or on any circumstances

relating to the ownership of goods , of vessels or of other

means of transport .

3.

Any contracting party may require that traffic in

transit through its territory be entered at the proper custom house , but , except in cases of failure to comply with

applicable customs laws and regulations , such traffic coming

from or going to the territory of other contracting parties

shall not be subject to any unnecessary delays or restrictions

and shall be exempt from customs duties and from all transit

duties or other charges imposed in respect of transit , except

charges for transportation or those commensurate with

administrative expenses entailed by transit or with the cost of services rendered .

A22

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

4.

All charges and regulations imposed by contracting

parties on traffic in transit to or from the territories of

other contracting parties shall be reasonable , having

regard to the conditions of the traffic .

5.

With respect to all charges , regulations and

formalities in connection with transit , each contracting

party shall accord to traffic in transit to or from the

territory of any other contracting party treatment no less favourable than the treatment accorded to traffic in

transit to or from any third country . [ ']

6.

Each contracting party shall accord to products which

have been in transit through the territory of any other

contracting party treatment no less favourable than that which

would have been accorded to such products had they been

transported from their place of origin to their destination

without going through the territory of such other contracting

party . Any contracting party shall , however , be free to

maintain its requirements of direct consignment existing

on the date of this Agreement , in respect of any goods in regard to which such direct consignment is a requisite

condition of eligibility for entry of the goods at preferential rates of duty or has relation to the contracting

party's prescribed method of valuation for duty purposes .

7.

The provisions of this Article shall not apply to the

operation of aircraft in transit , but shall apply to air

transit of goods ( including baggage ) .

1 [Post, p. A86 . ]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A23

Article VI

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties

1.

No anti - dumping duty shall be levied on any product of the

territory of any contracting party imported into the territory of any other contracting party in excess of an amount equal to the margin of dumping under which such product is being imported . For the purposes of this Article , the margin of dumping shall be understood to mean the amount by which the price of the product exported from one country to another
(a) is less than the comparable price , in the ordinary

course of trade , for the like product when destined for consumption in the exporting country ; or , (b) in the absence of such domestic price , is less than either

(1) the highest comparable price for the like.

product for export to any third country in the ordinary course of trade , or

( 11 ) the cost of production of the product in the country of origin plus a reasonable addition for selling cost and profit . Due allowance shall be made in each case for differences in

conditions and terms of sale , for differences in taxation , and for other differences affecting price comparability . [']

2.

No countervailing duty shall be levied on any product of

the territory of any contracting party imported into the terri-

tory of another contracting party in excess of an amount equal

to the estimated bounty or subsidy determined to have been

granted , directly or indirectly , on the manufacture , production

or export of such product in the country of origin or export-

ation , including any special subsidy to the transportation of

1 [ Post, p. A86 . ]

 |

A24

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

a particular product . The term " countervailing duty " shall be

understood to mean a special duty levied for the purpose of off-

setting any bounty or subsidy bestowed , directly or indirectly ,

upon the manufacture , production or exportation of any merchandise . [ ' ]

3.

No product of the territory of any contracting party

imported into the territory of any other contracting party shall

be subject to anti- dumping or countervailing duty by reason of the exemption of such product from duties or taxes borne by the

like product when destined for consumption in the country of

origin or exportation , or by reason of the refund of such duties or taxes .

4.

No product of the territory of any contracting party

imported into the territory of any other contracting party shall

be subject to both anti -dumping and countervailing duties to

compensate for the same situation of dumping or export

subsidization ,

5.

No contracting party shall levy any anti - dumping or counter-

vailing duty on the importation of any product of the territory

of another contracting party unless it determines that the effect of the dumping or subsidization , as the case may be , is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry , or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry . The CONTRACTING PARTIES

may waive the requirements of this paragraph so as to permit a contracting party to levy an anti -dumping or countervailing

duty on the importation of any product for the purpose of offsetting dumping or subsidization which causes or threatens

material injury to an industry in the territory of another contracting party exporting the product concerned to the territory of the importing contracting party .

1 [Post, p. a86 . ]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A25

6.

A system for the stabilization of the domestic price or of

the return to domestic producers of a primary commodity , inde-

pendently of the movements of export prices , which results at

times in the sale of the product for export at a price lower than

the comparable price charged for the like product to buyers in the

domestic market , shall be considered not to result in material

injury within the meaning of paragraph 5 of this Article , if it is

determined by consultation among the contracting parties sub-

stantially interested in the product concerned : (a) that the system has also resulted in the sale of the

product for export at a price higher than the comparable

price charged for the like product to buyers in the

domestic market , and (b) that the system is so operated , either because of the

effective regulation of production or otherwise , as not

to stimulate exports unduly or otherwise seriously

prejudice the interests of other contracting parties .

7.

No measures other than anti-dumping or countervailing duties

shall be applied by any contracting party in respect of any product

of the territory of any other contracting party for the purpose of offsetting dumping or subsidization . [']
Article VII

Valuation for Customs Purposes

The contracting parties recognize the validity of the general

principles of valuation set forth in the following paragraphs of

this Article , and they undertake to give effect to such principles ,

in respect of all products subject to duties or other charges or

restrictions on importation and exportation based upon or

1 [Post, p. 486. ]

A26

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

regulated in any manner by value , at the earliest practicable date . [']}

Moreover , they shall , upon a request by another contracting party , review the operation of any of their laws or regulations relating t value for customs purposes in the light of these principles . The CONTRACTING PARTIES may request from contracting parties reports on steps taken by them in pursuance of the provisions of this Article .

2.

( a) The value for customs purposes of imported merchandise

should be based on the actual value of the imported merchandise

on which duty is assessed , or of like merchandise , and should not

be based on the value of merchandise of national origin or on

arbitrary or fictitious values .

( b) " Actual value " should be the price at which , at a time

and place determined by the legislation of the country of impor-

tation , and in the ordinary course of trade , such or like merch-

andise is sold or offered for sale under fully competitive

conditions . To the extent to which the price of such or like

merchandise is governed by the quantity in a particular

transaction , the price to be considered should uniformly be

related to either ( 1 ) comparable quantities , or ( ii ) quantities not less favourable to importers than those in which the greater volume of the merchandise is sold in the trade between the

countries of exportation and importation . [2] ( c ) When the actual value is not ascertainable in accordance

with sub- paragraph ( b) of this paragraph , the value for customs

purposes should be based on the nearest ascertainable equivalent of such value .

3.

The value for customs purposes of any imported product should

not include the amount of any internal tax , applicable within the

1 [ Post, p. A86. ] 2 [Post, p. A87 . ]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A27

country of origin or export , from which the imported product has been exempted or has been or will be relieved by means of refund .

4.

( a ) Except as otherwise provided for in this paragraph ,

where it is necessary for the purposes of paragraph 2 of this

Article for a contracting party to convert into its own currency

a price expressed in the currency of another country , the conversion rate of exchange to be used shall be based on the par

values of the currencies involved as established pursuant to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund l' or by special exchange agreements entered into pursuant to Article XV of this Agreement .

(b) Where no such par value has been established , the con-

version rate shall reflect effectively the current value of such

currency in commercial transactions .

( c ) The CONTRACTING PARTIES , in agreement with the International Monetary Fund , shall formulate rules governing the conversion by contracting parties of any foreign currency in respect of which multiple rates of exchange are maintained consistently with the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund . Any contracting party may apply such rules in respect of such foreign currencies for the purposes of paragraph 2 of this Article as an alternative to the use of par values . Until

such rules are adopted by the CONTRACTING PARTIES , any contracting party may employ , in respect of any such foreign currency , rules

of conversion for the purposes of paragraph 2 of this Article which are designed to reflect effectively the value of such foreign currency in commercial transactions .

1 [ 60 Stat. 1401. ]

A28

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

( d) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed

to require any contracting party to alter the method of

converting currencies for customs purposes which is applicable

in its territory on the date of this Agreement , if such alteration would have the effect of increasing generally the

amounts of duty payable .

5.

The bases and methods for determining the value of

products subject to duties or other charges or restrictions

based upon or regulated in any manner by value should be

stable and should be given sufficient publicity to enable

traders to estimate , with a reasonable degree of certainty , the value for customs purposes .

Article VIII

Formalities connected with

Importation and Exportation

The contracting parties recognise that fees and

charges , other than duties , imposed by governmental authorities

on or in connection with importation or exportation , should

be limited in amount to the approximate cost of services

rendered and should not represent an indirect protection

to domestic products or a taxation of imports or exports for fiscal purposes . The contracting parties also recognize the

need for reducing the number and diversity of such fees and

charges , for minimizing the incidence and complexity of

import and export formalities , and for decreasing and

simplifying import and export documentation requirements .

2.

The contracting parties shall take action in accord-

ance with the principles and objectives of paragraph 1 of this Article at the earliest practicable date . Moreover ,

they shall , upon request by another contracting party ,

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A29

review the operation of any of their laws and regulations in the light of these principles .

3.

No contracting party shall impose substantial penalties

for minor breaches of customs regulations or procedural

requirements . In particular , no penalty in respect of any

omission or mistake in customs documentation which is easily

rectifiable and obviously made without fraudulent intent or

gross negligence shall be greater than necessary to serve merely as a warning .

4.

The provisions of this Article shall extend to fees ,

charges, formalities and requirements imposed by governmental

authorities in connection with importation and exportation ,

including those relating to : (a) consular transactions , such as consular invoices and certificates ;

(b) quantitative restrictions ; (c) licensing; (d) exchange control ; (e ) statistical services ;

(f) documents , documentation and certification ; ( g ) analysis and inspection ; and (h ) quarantine , sanitation and fumigation . [ ']

Article IX

Marks of Origin

1.

Each contracting party shall accord to the products of

the territories of other contracting parties treatment with regard to marking requirements no less favourable than the

treatment accorded to like products of any third country .

2.

Whenever it is administratively practicable to do so ,

contracting parties should permit required marks of origin to

be affixed at the time of importation .

1 [Post, p. 187. ]

95347 0-49 -pt. 5-3

A30

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

3.

The laws and regulations of contracting parties relating

to the marking of imported products shall be such as to permit

compliance without seriously damaging the products , or

materially reducing their value , or unreasonably increasing their cost .

4.

As a general rule no special duty or penalty should be

imposed by any contracting party for failure to comply with

marking requirements prior to importation unless corrective

marking is unreasonably delayed or deceptive marks have been

affixed or the required marking has been intentionally omitted .

5.

The contracting parties shall co - operate with each other

with a view to preventing the use of trade names in such manner

as to misrepresent the true origin of a product , to the detri-

ment of such distinctive regional or geographical names of products

of the territory of a contracting party as are protected by its

legislation . Each contracting party shall accord full and

sympathetic consideration to such requests or representations as may be made by any other contracting party regarding the application of the undertaking set forth in the preceding sentence to names of products which have been communicated to

it by the other contracting party .

Article X

Publication and Administration of Trade Regulations

1.

Laws , regulations , judicial decisions and administrative

rulings of general application , made effective by any contracting party , pertaining to the classification or the valuation

of products for customs purposes , or to rates of duty , taxes or other charges , or to requirements , restrictions or prohibi-

tions on imports or exports or on the transfer of payments therefor , or affecting their sale , distribution , transportation ,

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A31

insurance , warehousing , inspection , exhibition , processing ,

mixing or other use , shall be published promptly in such a

manner as to enable governments and traders to become acquainted with them . Agreements affecting international trade policy

which are in force between the government or a governmental

agency of any contracting party and the government or govern-

mental agency of any other contracting party shall also be

published . The provisions of this paragraph shall not require

any contracting party to disclose confidential information which

would impede law enforcement or otherwise be contrary to the

public interest or would prejudice the legitimate commercial

interests of particular enterprises , public or private .

2.

No measure of general application taken by any contracting

party effecting an advance in a rate of duty or other charge

on imports under an established and uniform practice , or imposing

a new or more burdensome requirement , restriction or prohibition

on imports , or on the transfer of payments therefor , shall be

enforced before such measure has been officially published .

3.

(a ) Each contracting party shall administer in a

uniform , impartial and reasonable manner all its laws , regu-

lations , decisions and rulings of the kind described in

paragraph 1 of this Article .

( b) Each contracting party shall maintain , or institute as soon as practicable , judicial , arbitral or administrative

tribunals or procedures for the purpose , inter alia ,

of the prompt review and correction of administrative action relating to customs matters . Such tribunals

A32

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

or procedures shall be independent of the agencies entrusted with administrative enforcement and their decisions shall be implemented by , and shall govern the practice of , such agencies unless an appeal is lodged with a court or tribunal of superior jurisdiction within the time prescribed for appeals to be lodged by importers ; Provided that the central administration of such agency may take steps to obtain a review of the matter in another proceeding if there is good cause to believe that the decision is inconsistent with established principles of law or the actual facts .
( c ) The provisions of sub- paragraph ( b ) of this paragraph shall not require the elimination or substitution of procedures in force in the territory of a contracting party on the date of this Agreement which in fact provide for an objective and impartial review of administrative action even though such procedures are not fully or formally independent of the agencies entrusted with administrative enforcement . Any contracting party employing such procedures shall , upon request , furnish the CONTRACTING PARTIES with full information thereon in order that they may determine whether such procedures conform to the requirements of this sub- paragraph .

Article XI

General Elimination of Quantitative Restrictions

1.

No prohibitions or restrictions other than duties , taxes

or other charges , whether made effective through quotas , import

or export licenses or other measures , shall be instituted or

maintained by any contracting party on the importation of any

product of the territory of any other contracting party or on

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT . 30, 1947

A33

the exportation or sale for export of any product destined for the

territory of any other contracting party .

2.

The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not

extend to the following :

(a ) export prohibitions or restrictions temporarily applied

to prevent or relieve critical shortages of foodstuffs or

other products essential to the exporting contracting party ;

( b) import and export prohibitions or restrictions necessary

to the application of standards or regulations for the class-

ification , grading or marketing of commodities in international trade ;

(c ) import restrictions on any agricultural or fisheries

product , imported in any form , [ ] necessary to the enforcement

of governmental measures which operate :

(1 ) to restrict the quantities of the like domestic pro-

duct permitted to be marketed or produced , or , if there

is no substantial domestic production of the like

product , of a domestic product for which the imported

product can be directly substituted ; or

( 11 ) to remove a temporary surplus of the like domestic

product , or , if there is no substantial domestic production of the like product , of a domestic product for which the imported product can be directly sub-

stituted , by making the surplus available to certain

groups of domestic consumers free of charge or at

prices below the current market level ; or (111) to restrict the quantities permitted to be produced
of any animal product the production of which is

directly dependent , wholly or mainly , on the imported

commodity , if the domestic production of that

commodity is relatively negligible .

[Post, p. 487. ]

A34

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Any contracting party applying restrictions on the import-

ation of any product pursuant to sub- paragraph ( c ) of this para-

graph shall give public notice of the total quantity or value of

the product permitted to be imported during a specified future period and of any change in such quantity or value . Moreover ,

any restrictions applied under ( i ) above shall not be such as will

reduce the total of imports relative to the total of domestic pro-

duction , as compared with the proportion which might reasonably be

expected to rule between the two in the absence of restrictions .

In determining this proportion , the contracting party shall pay

due regard to the proportion prevailing during a previous representative period and to any special factors [ ' ] which may have affected

or may be affecting the trade in the product concerned .

3.

Throughout Articles XI , XII , XIII and XIV the terms " import

restrictions " or " export restrictions " include restrictions made effective through state - trading operations .
Article XII

Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of Payments

1.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article XI ,

any contracting party , in order to safeguard its external financial

position and balance of payments , may restrict the quantity or

value of merchandise permitted to be imported , subject to the pro-

visions of the following paragraphs of this Article .

2.

(a ) No contracting party shall institute , maintain or

intensify import restrictions under this Article except to the

extent necessary

( 1 ) to forestall the imminent threat of, or to stop , a

serious decline in its monetary reserves , or

1 [Post, p. 487. ]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -- OCT. 30 , 1947

A35

(11 ) in the case of a contracting party with very low monetary reserves , to achieve a reasonable rate of increase in its reserves .

Due regard shall be paid in either case to any special

factors which may be affecting the contracting party's reserves or need for reserves , including , where special external credits

or other resources are available to it , the need to provide for

the appropriate use of such credits or resources .

(b ) Contracting parties applying restrictions under subparagraph ( a ) of this paragraph shall progressively relax them

as such conditions improve , maintaining them only to the extent that the conditions specified in that sub- paragraph still justify their application . They shall eliminate the restrictions when

conditions would no longer justify their institution or

maintenance under that sub- paragraph .

3.

(a) The contracting parties recognize that during the

next few years all of them will be confronted in varying degrees with problems of economic adjustment resulting from the war .

During this period the CONTRACTING PARTIES shall , when required

to take decisions under this Article or under Article XIV , take full account of the difficulties of post - war adjustment and of

the need which a contracting party may have to use import restrictions as a step towards the restoration of equilibrium

in its balance of payments on a sound and lasting basis . (b) The contracting parties recognize that , as a result

of domestic policies directed toward the achievement and

maintenance of full and productive employment and large and steadily growing demand or toward the reconstruction or

A36

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

development of industrial and other economic resources and the raising of standards of productivity , such a contracting party may experience a high level of demand for imports . Accordingly ,
(1 ) notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article , no contracting party shall be required to withdraw or modify restrictions on the ground that a change in the policies referred to above would render unnecessary the restrictions which it is applying under this Article ; [ ' ]
(11) any contracting party applying import restrictions under this Article may determine the incidence of the restrictions on imports of different products or classes of products in such a way as to give priority to the importation of those products which are more essential in the light of such policies .
( c ) Contracting parties undertake , in carrying out their domestic policies :
(1) to pay due regard to the need for restoring equilibrium in their balance of payments on a sound and lasting basis and to the desirability of assuring an economic employment of productive resources ;
(11) not to apply restrictions so as to prevent unreasonably the importation of any description of goods in minimum commercial quantities , the exclusion of which would impair regular
1 [Post, p. 187. ]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A37

channels of trade , or restrictions which would

prevent the importation of commercial samples , or prevent compliance with patent , trademark , copyright , or similar procedures ; and ( iii ) to apply restrictions under this Article in

such a way as to avoid unnecessary damage to the

commercial or economic interests of any other

contracting party .

4.

(a ) Any contracting party which is not applying restrictions

under this Article , but is considering the need to do so , shall ,

before instituting such restrictions ( or , in circumstances in

which prior consultation is impracticable , immediately after

doing so ) , consult with the CONTRACTING PARTIES as to the nature

of its balance - of - payments difficulties , alternative corrective

measures which may be available , and the possible effect of such measures on the economies of other contracting parties . No

contracting party shall be required in the course of consultations under this sub- paragraph to indicate in advance the choice or timing of any particular measures which it may ultimately determine to adopt .
(b) The CONTRACTING PARTIES may at any time invite any

contracting party which is applying import restrictions under this Article to enter into such consultations with them, and shall invite any contracting party substantially intensifying such restrictions to consult within thirty days . A contracting party thus invited shall participate in such discussions . The CONTRACTING PARTIES may invite any other contracting party to take part in these discussions . Not later than January 1 , 1951 ,

A38

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall review all restrictions existing on that day and still applied under this Article at the time of the review.
(c ) Any contracting party may consult with the CONTRACTING PARTIES with a view to obtaining their prior approval for restrictions which the contracting party proposes , under this Article , to maintain , intensify or institute , or for the maintenance , intensification or institution of restrictions under specified future conditions . As a result of such consultations , the CONTRACTING PARTIES may approve in advance the maintenance , intensification or institution of restrictions by the contracting party in question insofar as the general extent , degree of intensity and duration of the restrictions are concerned . To the extent to which such approval has been given , the requirements of sub- paragraph ( a ) of this paragraph shall be deemed to have been fulfilled , and the action of the contracting party applying the restrictions shall not be open to challenge under sub-paragraph ( d ) of this paragraph on the ground that such action is inconsistent with the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article .
( d ) Any contracting party which considers that another contracting party is applying restrictions under this Article inconsistently with the provisions of paragraphs 2 or 3 of this Article or with those of Article XIII ( subject to the provisions of Article XIV ) may bring the matter for discussion to the CONTRACTING PARTIES ; and the contracting party applying the restrictions shall participate in the discussion . The CONTRACTING PARTIES , if they are satisfied that there is a prima facie case

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE OCT. 30, 1947

A39

that the trade of the contracting party initiating the procedure

is adversely affected , shall submit their views to the parties with the aim of achieving a settlement of the matter in question which is satisfactory to the parties and to the CONTRACTING PARTIES . If no such settlement is reached and if the

CONTRACTING PARTIES determine that the restrictions are being applied inconsistently with the provisions of paragraphs 2 or 3 of this Article or with those of Article XIII ( subject to the provisions of Article XIV ) , they shall recommend the withdrawal or modification of the restrictions . If the restrictions are not withdrawn or modified in accordance with the recommendation of

the CONTRACTING PARTIES within sixty days , they may release any contracting party from specified obligations under this Agreement towards the contracting party applying the restrictions .

(e) It is recognized that premature disclosure of the pros-

pective application , withdrawal or modification of any restrict-

ion under this Article might stimulate speculative trade and financial movements which would tend to defeat the purposes of this Article . Accordingly , the CONTRACTING PARTIES shall make

provision for the observance of the utmost secrecy in the conduct

of any consultation .

5.

If there is a persistent and widespread application of

import restrictions under this Article , indicating the existence of a general disequilibrium which is restricting international

trade , the CONTRACTING PARTIES shall initiate discussions to

consider whether other measures might be taken , either by those

contracting parties whose balances of payments are under pressure

A40

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

or by those whose balances of payments are tending to be exceptionally favourable , or by any appropriate inter - governmental

organization , to remove the underlying causes of the disequilibrium . On the invitation of the CONTRACTING PARTIES , contracting parties

shall participate in such discussions . Article XIII

Non-discriminatory Administration of Quantitative

Restrictions

1.

No prohibition or restriction shall be applied by any contract-

ing party on the importation of any product of the territory of any

other contracting party or on the exportation of any product

destined for the territory of any other contracting party , unless

the importation of the like product of all third countries or the

exportation of the like product to all third countries is similarly

prohibited or restricted .

2.

In applying import restrictions to any product , contracting

parties shall aim at a distribution of trade in such product

approaching as closely as possible to the shares which the various

contracting parties might be expected to obtain in the absence of

such restrictions , and to this end shall observe the following

provisions :

(a) wherever practicable , quotas representing the total amount of permitted imports (whether allocated among supplying countries or not ) shall be fixed , and notice given of

their amount in accordance with paragraph 3 ( b ) of this Article ; (b) in cases in which quotas are not practicable , the

restrictions may be applied by means of import licences

or permits without a quota ;

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A41

(c) contracting parties shall not , except for purposes of

operating quotas allocated in accordance with sub - paragraph ( d ) of this paragraph , require that import licences or permits be utilized for the importation of the product concerned from a particular country or source ; (a) in cases in which a quota is allocated among supplying

countries , the contracting party applying the restrictions may seek agreement with respect to the allocation of shares in the quota with all other contracting parties having a substantial interest in supplying the product concerned . In cases in which this method is not reasonably practicable ,

the contracting party concerned shall allot to contracting parties having a substantial interest in supplying the product shares based upon the proportions , supplied by such contracting parties during a previous representative period , of the total quantity or value of imports of the product , due account being taken of any special factors which may have affected or may be affecting the trade in the product .

No conditions or formalities shall be imposed which would

prevent any contracting party from utilizing fully the

share of any such total quantity or value which has been

allotted to it , subject to importation being made within

any prescribed period to which the quota may relate . [ ' ]

3.

(a) In cases in which import licences are issued in

connection with import restrictions , the contracting party applying the restrictions shall provide , upon the request of any contracting party having an interest in the trade in the

product concerned , all relevant information concerning the administration of the restrictions , the import licences

1 [Post, p. A88. ]

A42

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

granted over a recent period and the distribution of such licences among supplying countries ; Provided that there shall be no obligation to supply information as to the names of importing or supplying enterprises .
(b) In the case of import restrictions involving the fixing of quotas , the contracting party applying the restrictions shall give public notice of the total quantity or value of the product or products which will be permitted to be imported during a specified future period and of any change in such quantity or value . Any supplies of the product in question which were en route at the time at which public notice was given shall not be excluded from entry ; Provided that they may be counted so far as practicable , against the quantity permitted to be imported in the period in question , and also , where necessary , against the quantities permitted to be imported in the next following period or periods ; and Provided further that if any contracting party customarily exempts from such restrictions products entered for consumption or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption during a period of thirty days after the day of such public notice , such practice shall be considered full compliance with this sub-paragraph .
(c ) In the case of quotas allocated among supplying countries , the contracting party applying the restrictions shall promptly inform all other contracting parties having an interest in supplying the product concerned of the shares in the quota currently allocated , by quantity or value , to the various supplying countries and shall give public notice thereof .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A43

4. With regard to restrictions applied in accordance with paragraph 2 ( d ) of this Article or under paragraph 2 ( c ) of Article XI , the selection of a representative period for any product and the appraisal of any special factors affecting the trade in the product shall be made initially by the contracting party applying the restriction ; Provided that such contracting party shall upon the request of any other contracting party having a substantial interest in supplying that product or upon the request of the CONTRACTING PARTIES , consult promptly with the other contracting party or the CONTRACTING PARTIES regarding the need for an adjustment of the proportion determined or of the base period selected , or for the reappraisal of the special factors involved , or for the elimination of conditions , formalities or any other provisions established unilaterally relating to the allocation of an adequate quota or its unrestricted utilization . [ '] 5. The provisions of this Article shall apply to any tariff quota instituted or maintained by any contracting party , and , insofar as applicable , the principles of this Article shall also extend to export restrictions and to any internal regulation or requirement under paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article III .
Article XIV Exceptions to the Rule of Non-
discrimination 1. (a) The contracting parties recognize that when a substantial and widespread disequilibrium prevails in international trade and payments a contracting party applying restrictions under Article XII may be able to increase its imports from certain sources without unduly depleting its monetary reserves , if permitted to depart from the provisions of Article XIII . The contracting parties also recognise the need for close limitation of such departures so as not to handicap achievement of multilateral international trade .
1 [Post, p. A88. ]

A44

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

(b) Accordingly , when a substantial and widespread disequilibrium prevails in international trade and payments , a contracting party applying import restrictions under Article XII may relax such restrictions in a manner which departs from the provisions of Article XIII to the extent necessary to obtain additional imports above the maximum total of imports which it could afford in the light of the requirements of paragraph 2 of Article XII if its restrictions were fully consistent with the provisions of Article XIII , provided that
(i) levels of delivered prices for products so imported are not established substantially higher than those ruling for comparable goods regularly available from other contracting parties , and that any excess of such price levels for products so imported is progressively reduced over a reasonable period ;
( 11 ) the contracting party taking such action does not do so as part of any arrangement by which the gold or convertible currency which the contracting party currently receives directly or indirectly from its exports to other contracting parties not party to the arrangement is appreciably reduced below the level it could otherwise have been reasonably expected to attain ;
( 111 ) such action does not cause unnecessary damage to the commercial or economic interests of any other contracting party .
(c ) Any contracting party taking action under this paragraph shall observe the principles of sub- paragraph ( b ) of this paragraph . A contracting party shall desist from transactions

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A45

which prove to be inconsistent with that sub- paragraph , but the contracting party shall not be required to satisfy itself , when it is not practicable to do so , that the requirements of that subparagraph are fulfilled in respect of individual transactions .
(a ) Contracting parties undertake , in framing and carrying out any programme for additional imports under this paragraph , to have due regard to the need to facilitate the termination of any exchange arrangements which deviate from the obligations of Sections 2 , 3 and 4 of Article VIII of the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund ' and to the need to restore equilibrium in their balances of payments on a sound and lasting basis . 2. Any contracting party taking action under paragraph 1 of this Article shall keep the CONTRACTING PARTIES regularly informed regarding such action and shall provide such available relevant information as they may request . 3. ( a ) Not later than March 1 , 1952 (five years after the date on which the International Monetary Fund began operations ) and in each year thereafter , any contracting party maintaining or proposing to institute action under paragraph 1 of this Article shall seek the approval of the CONTRACTING PARTIES which shall thereupon determine whether the circumstances of the contracting party justify the maintenance or institution of action by it under paragraph 1 of this Article . After March 1 , 1952 , no contracting party shall maintain or institute such action without determination by the CONTRACTING PARTIES that the contracting party's circumstances justify the maintenance or
1 [ 60 Stat. 1411.]

95347 0--49 - pt . 5- -4

A46

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

institution of such action , as the case may be , and the subsequent maintenance or institution of such action by the contracting party shall be subject to any limitations which the CONTRACTING PARTIES may prescribe for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article ; Provided that the CONTRACTING PARTIES shall not require that prior approval be obtained for individual transactions .
(b) If at any time the CONTRACTING PARTIES find that import restrictions are being applied by a contracting party in a discriminatory manner inconsistent with the exceptions provided for under paragraph 1 of this Article , the contracting party shall , within sixty days , remove the discrimination or modify it as specified by the CONTRACTING PARTIES ; Provided that any action under paragraph 1 of this Article , to the extent that it has been approved by the CONTRACTING PARTIES under sub- paragraph (a) of this paragraph or to the extent that it has been approved by them at the request of a contracting party under a procedure analogous to that of paragraph 4 ( c ) of Article XII , shall not be open to challenge under this sub- paragraph or under paragraph 4 ( d ) of Article XII on the ground that it is inconsistent with the provisions of Article XIII .
(c ) Not later than March 1 , 1950 , and in each year thereafter so long as any contracting parties are taking action under paragraph 1 of this Article , the CONTRACTING PARTIES shall report on the action still taken by contracting parties under that paragraph . On or about March 1 , 1952 , and in each year thereafter so long as any contracting parties are taking action under paragraph 1 of this Article , and at such times thereafter as they may decide , the CONTRACTING PARTIES shall review the question whether there then exists such a substantial and widespread

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A47

disequilibrium in international trade and payments as to justify

resort to paragraph 1 of this Article by contracting parties . If it appears at any date prior to March 1 , 1952 , that there

has been a substantial and general improvement in international

trade and payments , the CONTRACTING PARTIES may review the situation at that date . If , as a result of any such review, the

CONTRACTING PARTIES determine that no such disequilibrium exists ,

the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall be suspended , and all actions authorized thereunder shall cease six months

after such determination . [ ']

4. The provisions of Article XIII shall not preclude restrictions in accordance with Article XII which either

(a ) are applied against imports from other countries , but

not as among themselves , by a group of territories

having a common quota in the International Monetary Fund , on condition that such restrictions are in all

other respects consistent with the provisions of Article XIII , or

(b) assist , in the period up to December 31 , 1951 , by

measures not involving substantial departure from the

provisions of Article XIII , another country whose

economy has been disrupted by war .

5.

The provisions of this Agreement shall not preclude :

(a ) restrictions with equivalent effect to exchange restrictions authorized under Section 3 ( b ) of Article

VII of the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund ; [2] or

(b) restrictions under the preferential arrangements pro-

vided for in Annex A [3 ] of this Agreement , subject to the conditions set forth therein .

1 [ Post, p. 488. ] 2 [60 Stat. 1410. ]
[ Post, p. A76 . ]

A48

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

6. (a) The provisions of Article XIII shall not enter into force in respect of import restrictions applied by any contracting party pursuant to Article XII in order to safeguard its external financial position and balance of payments , and the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article XI and Article XIII shall not enter into force in respect of export restrictions applied by any contracting party for the same reason , until January 1 , 1949 ; Provided that this period may with the concurrence of the CONTRACTING PARTIES , be extended for such further periods as they may specify in respect of any contracting party whose supply of convertible currencies is inadequate to enable it to apply the above - mentioned provisions .
( b ) If a measure taken by a contracting party in the circumstances referred to in sub- paragraph ( a ) of this paragraph affects the commerce of another contracting party to such an extent as to cause the latter to consider the need of having recourse to the provisions of Article XII , the contracting party having taken that measure shall , if the affected contracting party so requests , enter into immediate consultation with a view to arrangements enabling the affected contracting party to avoid having such recourse , and , if special circumstances are put forward to justify such action , shall temporarily suspend application of the measure for a period of fifteen days , [ ']
1 [Post, p. 188. ]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT . 30, 1947

A49

Article XV

Exchange Arrangements

1.

The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall seek co - operation with

the International Monetary Fund to the end that the

CONTRACTING PARTIES and the Fund may pursue a co - ordinated

policy with regard to exchange questions within the jurisdiction

of the Fund and questions of quantitative restrictions and

other trade measures within the jurisdiction of the

CONTRACTING PARTIES .

2,

In all cases in which the CONTRACTING PARTIES are called

upon to consider or deal with problems concerning monetary reserves , balances of payments or foreign exchange arrangements , they shall consult fully with the International Monetary Fund . In such consultation , the CONTRACTING PARTIES shall accept all findings of statistical and other facts presented by the

Fund relating to foreign exchange , monetary reserves and balances of payments , and shall accept the determination of the Fund as to whether action by acontracting party in exchange matters is in accordance with the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund , [ ' ] r with the terms of a special exchange agreement between that contracting party and the CONTRACTING PARTIES . The CONTRACTING PARTIES , in reaching their

final decision in cases involving the criteria set forth in

paragraph 2 ( a ) of Article XII , shall accept the determination of the Fund as to what constitutes a serious decline in the

contracting party's monetary reserves , a very low level of its monetary reserves or a reasonable rate of increase in its monetary reserves , and as to the financial aspects of other matters covered in consultation in such cases .

1 [ 60 Stat. 1401. ]

A50

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

3.

The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall seek agreement with the

Fund regarding procedures for consultation under paragraph 2 of this Article . 
Contracting parties shall not , by exchange action , frustrate [']

the intent of the provisions of this Agreement , nor , by trade action , the intent of the provisions of the Articles of Agree-

ment of the International Monetary Fund . [ 2]

5.

If the CONTRACTING PARTIES consider , at any time , that

exchange restrictions on payments and transfers in connection

with imports are being applied by a contracting party in a

manner inconsistent with the exceptions provided for in this

Agreement for quantitative restrictions , they shall report thereon to the Fund .

6.

Any contracting party which is not a member of the

Fund shall , within a time to be determined by the CONTRACTING

PARTIES after consultation with the Fund , become a member of

the Fund , or , failing that , enter into a special exchange agreement with the CONTRACTING PARTIES , A contracting party which ceases to be a member of the Fund shall forthwith enter

into a special exchange agreement with the CONTRACTING PARTIES .

Any special exchange agreement entered into by a contracting

party under this paragraph shall thereupon become part of its

obligations under this Agreement . 7. (a) A special exchange agreement between a contracting

party and the CONTRACTING PARTIES under paragraph 6 of this Article shall provide to the satisfaction of the CONTRACTING PARTIES that the objectives of this Agreement will not be frustrated as a result of action in exchange matters by the contracting party in question .

1 [Post, p. 488. ] 2 [ 60 Stat. 1401. ]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A51

( b) The terms of any such agreement shall not impose

obligations on the contracting party in exchange matters generally more restrictive than those imposed by the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund on members of the Fund . 8. A contracting party which is not a member of the Fund shall furnish such information within the general scope of

Section 5 of Article VIII of the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund [ ] as the CONTRACTING PARTIES may

require in order to carry out their functions under this Agreement .

9.

Subject to the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Article ,

nothing in this Agreement shall preclude :

( a ) the use by a contracting party of exchange controls or

exchange restrictions in accordance with the Articles

of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund or with that contracting party's special exchange agreement with the CONTRACTING PARTIES , or

(b) the use by a contracting party of restrictions or controls on imports or exports , the sole effect of which , additional

to the effects permitted under Articles XI , XII , XIII and

XIV, is to make effective such exchange controls or exchange restrictions .

Article XVI Subsidies
If any contracting party grants or maintains any subsidy , including any form of income or price support , which operates directly or indirectly to increase exports of any product from , or to reduce imports of any product into , its territory , it shall notify the CONTRACTING PARTIES in writing of the extent
1 [ 60 Stat. 1412. ]

A52

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

and nature of the subsidization , of the estimated effect of the subsidization on the quantity of the affected product or products imported into or exported from its territory and of the circumstances making the subsidization necessary . In any case in which it is determined that serious prejudice to the interests of any other contracting party is caused or threatened by any such subsidization , the contracting party granting the subsidy shall , upon request , discuss with the other contracting party or parties concerned , or with the CONTRACTING PARTIES , the possibility of limiting the subsidization .
Article XVII Non-discriminatory Treatment on the part of State - Trading Enterprises 1. ( a ) Each contracting party undertakes that if it establishes or maintains a state enterprise , wherever located , or grants to any enterprise , formally or in effect , exclusive or special privileges , [ '] such enterprise shall , in its purchases or sales involving either imports or exports , act in a manner consistent with the general principles of non - discriminatory treatment prescribed in this Agreement for governmental measures affecting imports or exports by private traders . ( b) The provisions of sub - paragraph ( a ) of this paragraph shall be understood to require that such enterprises shall , having due regard to the other provisions of this Agreement , make any such purchases or sales solely in accordance with commercial considerations , [ ] including price , quality , availability , marketability , transportation and other conditions of purchase or sale , and shall afford the enterprises of the other contracting 1 [Post, p . A89 . ]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A53

parties adequate opportunity , in accordance with customary business practice , to compete for participation in such purchases or sales .
( c ) No contracting party shall prevent any enterprise (whether or not an enterprise described in sub - paragraph ( a ) of this paragraph ) under its jurisdiction from acting in accordance with the principles of sub - paragraphs ( a ) and ( b ) of this paragraph . [ ']
2 . The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not apply to imports of products for immediate or ultimate consumption in governmental use and not otherwise for re - sale or for use in the production of goods for sale . With respect to such imports , each contracting party shall accord to the trade of the other contracting parties fair and equitable treatment . [']
Article XVIII Adjustments in Connection with
Economic Development 1. The contracting parties recognize that special governmental assistance may be required to promote the establishment , development or reconstruction of particular industries or particular branches of agriculture , and that in appropriate circumstances the grant of such assistance in the form of protective measures is justified . At the same time they recognize that an unwise use of such measures would impose undue burdens on their own economies and unwarranted restrictions on international trade , and might increase unnecessarily the difficulties of adjustment for the economies of other countries . 2. (a) If a contracting party , in the interest of its programme of economic development or reconstruction , considers it desirable
1 [Post, p . 489. ]

A54

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

to adopt any mon - discriminatory measure which would conflict with any obligation which it has assumed under Article II , or with any other provision of this Agreement , such applicant contracting party shall so notify the CONTRACTING PARTIES and shall transmit to them a written statement of the considerations in support of the adoption of the proposed measure .
( b ) The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall promptly transmit such statement to all other contracting parties , and any contracting party which considers that its trade would be substantially affected by the proposed measure shall transmit its views to the CONTRACTING PARTIES within such period as shall be prescribed by them .
( c ) The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall then promptly examine the proposed measure to determine whether they concur in it , with or without modification , and shall in their examination have regard to the provisions of this Agreement , to the considerations presented by the applicant contracting party and its stage of economic development or reconstruction , to the views presented by contracting parties which may be substantially affected , and to the effect which the proposed measure , with or without modification , is likely to have on international trade . 3. ( a ) If , as a result of their examination pursuant to paragraph 2 ( c ) of this Article , the CONTRACTING PARTIES concur in principle in any proposed measure , with or without modification , which would be inconsistent with any obligation that the applicant contracting party has assumed under Article II , or which would tend to nullify or impair the benefit to any other contracting party

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A55

or parties of any such obligation , the CONTRACTING PARTIES shall sponsor and assist in negotiations between the applicant contracting party and the other contracting party or parties which would be substantially affected with a view to obtaining substantial agreement . The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall establish and communicate to the contracting parties concerned a time schedule for such negotiations .
(b) Contracting parties shall commence the negotiations provided for in sub - paragraph ( a ) of this paragraph within such pariod as the CONTRACTING PARTIES may prescribe and shall thereafter , unless the CONTRACTING PARTIES decide otherwise , proceed continuously with such negotiations with a view to reaching substantial agreement in accordance with the time schedule laid down by the CONTRACTING PARTIES .
( c) Upon substantial agreement being reached , the CONTRACTING PARTIES may release the applicant contracting party from the obligation referred to in sub-paragraph ( a ) of this paragraph or from any other relevant obligation under this Agreement , subject to such limitations as may have been agreed upon in the negotiations between the contracting parties concerned . 4. ( a) If , as a result of their examination pursuant to paragraph 2 ( c ) of this Article , the CONTRACTING PARTIES concur in any proposed measure , with or without modification , other than a measure referred to in paragraph 3 ( a ) of this Article , which would be inconsistent with any provision of this Agreement , the CONTRACTING PARTIES may release the applicant contracting party from any obligation under such provision , subject to such limitations as they may impose .

A56

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

(b) If , having regard to the provisions of paragraph 2 ( c ) of this Article , it is established in the course of such examination that such measure is unlikely to be more restrictive of international trade than any other practicable and reasonable measure permitted under this Agreement which could be imposed without undue difficulty and that it is the one most suitable for the purpose having regard to the economics of the industry or the branch of agriculture concerned and to the current economic condition of the applicant contracting party , the CONTRACTING PARTIES shall concur in such measure and grant such release as may be required to enable such measure to be made effective .
( c ) If in anticipation of the concurrence of the CONTRACTING PARTIES in the adoption of a measure concerning which notice has been given under paragraph 2 of this Article , other than a measure referred to in paragraph 3 ( a ) of this Article , there should be an increase or threatened increase in the importations of the product or products concerned , including products which can be directly substituted therefor , so substantial as to jeopardize the plans of the applicant contracting party for the establishment , development or reconstruction of the industry or industries or branches of agriculture concerned , and if no preventive measures consistant with this Agreement can be found which seem likely to prove effective , the applicant contracting party may, after informing , and when practicable consulting with, the CONTRACTING PARTIES , adopt such other measures as the situation may require pending a determination by the CONTRACTING PARTIES , provided that such measures do not reduce imports below the level obtaining in the most

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A57

recent representative period preceding the date on which the contracting party's original notification was made under paragraph 2 of this Article . 5. (a) In the case of measures referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article , the CONTRACTING PARTIES shall , at the earliest opportunity but ordinarily within fifteen days after receipt of the statement referred to in paragraph 2 ( a ) of this Article , advise the applicant contracting party of the date by which they will notify it whether or not they concur in principle in the proposed measure , with or without modification .
(b) In the case of measures referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article , the CONTRACTING PARTIES shall , as in subparagraph ( a ) of this paragraph , advise the applicant contracting party of the date by which they will notify it whether or not it is released from such obligation or obligations as may be relevant ; Provided that , if the applicant contracting party does not receive a final reply by the date fixed by the CONTRACTING PARTIES , it may , after communicating with the CONTRACTING PARTIES , institute the proposed measure upon the expiration of a further thirty days from such date . 6. Any contracting party may maintain any non- discriminatory measure , in force on September 1 , 1947 , which has been imposed for the establishment , development or reconstruction of particular industries or particular branches of agriculture and which is not otherwise permitted by this Agreement ; Provided that any such contracting party shall have notified the other contracting parties , not later than October 10 , 1947 , of each product on which any such existing measure is to be maintained and of the nature and purpose of such measure . Any contracting party maintaining any such

A58

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

measure shall , within sixty days of becoming a contracting party , notify the CONTRACTING PARTIES of the measure concerned , the considerations in support of its maintenance and the period for which it wishes to maintain the measure . The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall , as soon as possible but in any case within twelve months from the day on which such contracting party becomes a contracting party , examine and give a decision concerning the measure as if it had been submitted to the CONTRACTING PARTIES for their concurrence under the provisions of the preceding paragraphs of this Article . The CONTRACTING PARTIES , in making a decision under this paragraph specifying a date by which any modification in or withdrawal of the measure is to be made , shall have regard to the possible need of a contracting party for a suitable period of time in which to make such modification or withdrawal . 7. The provisions of paragraph 6 of this Article shall not apply , in respect of any contracting party , to any product described in the appropriate Schedule annexed to this Agreement .
Article XIX Emergency Action on Imports of
Particular Products 1. ( a) If , as a result of unforeseen developments and of the effect of the obligations incurred by a contracting party under this Agreement , including tariff concessions , any product is being imported into the territory of that contracting party in such increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause or threaten serious injury to domestic producers in that territory of like or directly competitive products , the contracting party shall be free , in respect of such product , and to the extent and

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A59

for such time as may be necessary to prevent or remedy such injury , to suspend the obligation in whole or in part or to withdraw or modify the concession .
(b) If any product , which is the subject of a concession with respect to a preference , is being imported into the territory of a contracting party in the circumstances set forth in sub - paragraph ( a ) of this paragraph , so as to cause or threaten serious injury to domestic producers of like or directly competitive products in the territory of a contracting party which receives or received such preference , the importing contracting party shall be free , if that other contracting party so requests , to suspend the relevant obligation in whole or in part or to withdraw or modify the concession in respect of the product , to the extent and for such time as may be necessary to prevent or remedy such injury . 2. Before any contracting party shall take action pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article , it shall give notice in writing to the CONTRACTING PARTIES as far in advance as may be practicable and shall afford the CONTRACTING PARTIES and those contracting parties having a substantial interest as exporters of the product concerned an opportunity to consult with it in respect of the proposed action . When such notice is given in relation to a concession with respect to a preference , the notice shall name the contracting party which has requested the action . In critical circumstances , where delay would cause damage which it would be difficult to repair , action under paragraph 1 of this Article may be taken provisionally without prior consultation , on the condition that consultation shall be effected immediately after taking such action .

A60

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

3.

( a) If agreement among the interested contracting parties

with respect to the action is not reached , the contracting

party which proposes to take or continue the action shall ,

nevertheless , be free to do so , and if such action is taken

or continued , the affected contracting parties shall then

be free , not later than ninety days after such action is

taken, to suspend , upon the expiration of thirty days from

the day on which written notice of such suspension is received

by the CONTRACTING PARTIES , the application to the trade

of the contracting party taking such action , or , in the

case envisaged in paragraph 1 ( b ) of this Article , to the

trade of the contracting party requesting such action , of

such substantially equivalent obligations or concessions

under this Agreement the suspension of which the CONTRACTING PARTIES do not disapprove .

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub - paragraph ( a)

of this paragraph , where action is taken under paragraph 2

of this Article without prior consultation and causes or

threatens serious injury in the territory of a contracting

party to the domestic producers of products affected by the

action , that contracting party shall , where delay would

cause damage difficult to repair , be free to suspend , upon

the taking of the action and throughout the period of

consultation , such obligations or concessions as may be

necessary to prevent or remedy the injury . Article XX
General Exceptions

Subject to the requirement that such measures are not

applied in a manner which would consitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination between countries where the same

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A61

conditions prevail , or a disguised restriction on international trade , nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent the adoption or enforcement by any contracting party of measures : I. (a) necessary to protect public morals ;
(b) necessary to protect human , animal or plant life or health ; ( c ) relating to the importation or exportation of gold or silver ; (a) necessary to secure compliance with laws or regulations which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement , including those relating to customs enforcement , the enforcement of monopolies operated under paragraph 4 of Article II and Article XVII , the protection of patents , trade marks and copyrights , and the prevention of deceptive practices ; (e ) relating to the products of prison labour ; (f) imposed for the protection of national treasures of artistic , historic or archaeological value ; (g) relating to the conservation of exhaustible natural resources if such measures are made effective in conjunction with restrictions on domestic production or consumption ; (h) undertaken in pursuance of obligations under intergovernmental commodity agreements , conforming to the principles approved by the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations in its Resolution of March 28 , 1947 , establishing an Interim Co - ordinating Committee for International Commodity Arrangements ; [ '] or 1 [United Nations. Resolutions adopted by the Economic and Social Council during its Fourth Session from 28 February to 29 March 1947, p. 3. Lake Success. ]

95347 0- 49 -pt. 5 -5

A62

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

(1) involving restrictions on exports of domestic materials necessary to assure essential quantities of such materials to a domestic processing industry during periods when the domestic price of such materials is held below the world price as part of a governmental stabilization plan ; Provided that such restrictions shall not operate to increase the exports of or the protection afforded to such domestic industry , and shall not depart from the provisions of this Agreement relating to nondiscrimination ;
II . ( a) essential to the acquisition or distribution of products in general or local short supply ; Provided that any such measures shall be consistent with any multilateral arrangements directed to an equitable international distribution of such products or , in the absence of such arrangements , with the principle that all contracting parties are entitled to an equitable share of the international supply of such products ;
(b) essential to the control of prices by a contracting party undergoing shortages subsequent to the war ; or
( c) essential to the orderly liquidation of temporary surpluses of stocks owned or controlled by the government of any contracting party or of industries developed in the territory of any contracting party owing to the exigencies of the war which it would be uneconomic to maintain in normal conditons ; Provided that such measures shall not be instituted by any contracting party except after consultation with other interested contracting parties with a view to appropriate international action .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A63

Measures instituted or maintained under part II of this Article which are inconsistent with the other provisions of this Agreement shall be removed as soon as the conditions giving rise to them have ceased , and in any event not later than January 1 , 1951 ; Provided that this period may , with the concurrence of the CONTRACTING PARTIES , be extended in respect of the application of any particular measure to any particular product by any particuler contracting party for such further periods as the CONTRACTING PARTIES may specify.
Article XXI Security Exceptions Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed (a) to require any contracting party to furnish any information the disclosure of which it considers contrary to its essential security interests ; or (b) to prevent any contracting party from taking any action which it considers necessary for the protection of its essential security interests ( 1 ) relating to fissionable materials or the materials from which they are derived ; ( ii ) relating to the traffic in arms , ammunition and implements of war and to such traffic in other goods and materials as is carried on directly or indirectly for the purpose of supplying a military establishment ; ( iii ) taken in time of war or other emergency in international relations ; or (c) to prevent any contracting party from taking any action in pursuance of its obligations under the United Nations Charter for the maintenance of international peace and security. 1 [ 59 Stat. 1031. ]

A64

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Article XXII

Consultation

Each contracting party shall accord sympathetic consideration

to , and shall afford adequate opportunity for consultation regarding ,

such representations as may be made by any other contracting party

with respect to the operation of customs regulations and formali-

ties , anti - dumping and countervailing duties , quantitative and

exchange regulations , subsidies , state - trading operations , sanitary

laws and regulations for the protection of human , animal or plant

life or health , and generally all matters affecting the operation of this Agreement .
Article XXIII

Nullification or Impairment

1.

If any contracting party should consider that any benefit

accruing to it directly or indirectly under this Agreement is

being nullified or impaired or that the attainment of any objective

of the Agreement is being impeded as the result of ( a ) the failure

of another contracting party to carry out its obligations under

this Agreement , or ( b ) the application by another contracting party of any measure , whether or not it conflicts with the provisions of

this Agreement , or ( c ) the existence of any other situation , the

contracting party may , with a view to the satisfactory adjustment

of the matter , make written representations or proposals to the

other contracting party or parties which it considers to be concerned .

Any contracting party thus approached shall give sympathetic consi-

deration to the representations or proposals made to it .

2.

If no satisfactory adjustment is effected between the contrac-

ing parties concerned within a reasonable time , or if the difficulty

is of the type described in paragraph 1 ( c ) of this Article , the matter may be referred to the CONTRACTING PARTIES . The CONTRACTING

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A65

PARTIES shall promptly investigate any matter so referred to them and shall make appropriate recommendations to the contracting parties which they consider to be concerned , or give a ruling on the matter , as appropriate . The CONTRACTING PARTIES may consult with contracting parties , with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations and with any appropriate inter- governmental organization in cases where they consider such consultation necessary . If the CONTRACTING PARTIES consider that the circumstances are serious enough to justify such action , they may authorize a contracting party or parties to suspend the application to any other contracting party or parties of such obligations or concessions under this Agreement as they determine to be appropriate in the circumstances . If the application to any contracting party of any obligation or concession is in fact suspended , that contracting party shall then be free , not later than sixty days after such action is taken , to advise the Secretary- General of the United Nations in writing of its intention to withdraw from this Agreement and such withdrawal shall take effect upon the expiration of sixty days from the day on which written notice of such withdrawal is received by him.

A66

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

PART III

Article XXIV

Territorial Application - Frontier Traffic - Customs Unions

1.

The rights and obligations arising under this Agreement shall

be deemed to be in force between each and every territory which

is a separate customs territory and in respect of which this Agree-

ment has been accepted under Article XXVI or is being applied

under the Protocol of Provisional Application . [ ']

2.

The provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed to

prevent :

( a) advantages accorded by any contracting party to adjacent countries in order to facilitate frontier traffic ; ( b) the formation of a customs union or the adoption of an

interim agreement necessary for the attainment of a customs

union ; Provided that the duties and other regulations of

commerce imposed by , or any margin of preference maintained by , any such union or agreement in respect of trade with other

contracting parties shall not on the whole be higher or more

stringent than the average level of the duties and regulations

of commerce or margins of preference applicable in the constituent territories prior to the formation of such union

or the adoption of such agreement ; and Provided further

that any such interim agreement shall include a definite plan and schedule for the attainment of such a customs union within

a reasonable length of time .

3.

(a) Any contracting party proposing to enter into a customs

union shall consult with the CONTRACTING PARTIES and shall make

available to them such information regarding the proposed union

as will enable them to make such reports and recommendations to

contracting parties as may be deemed appropriate .

1 [ 61 Stat., Pt. 6, p. 42051. ]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A67

(b) No contracting party shall institute or maintain any interim agreement under the provisions of paragraph 2 ( b ) of this Article if , after a study of the plan and schedule proposed in such agreement , the CONTRACTING PARTIES find that such agreement is not likely to result in such a customs union within a reasonable length of time .
(c) The plan or schedule shall not be substantially altered without consultation with the CONTRACTING PARTIES . 4. For the purposes of this Article a customs territory shall be understood to mean any territory with respect to which separate tariffs or other regulations of commerce are maintained for a substantial part of the trade of such territory with other territories . A customs union shall be understood to mean the substitution of a single customs territory for two or more customs territories , so that all tariffs and other restrictive regulations of commerce as between the territories of members of the union are substantially eliminated and substantially the same tariffs and other regulations of commerce are applied by each of the members of the union to the trade of territories not included in the union . 5. Taking into account the exceptional circumstances arising out of the establishment of India and Pakistan as independent states and recognizing the fact that they have long constituted an economic unit , the contracting parties agree that the provisions of this Agreement shall not prevent the two countries from entering into special arrangements with respect to the trade between them, pending the establishment of their mutual trade relations on a definitive basis . [ '] 6.
Each contracting party shall take such reasonable measures
[Post, p. 489. ]

A68

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

as may be available to it to assure observance of the provisions of this Agreement by the regional and local governments and authorities within its territory .
Article XXV

Joint Action by the Contracting Parties

1.

Representatives of the contracting parties shall meet from

time to time for the purpose of giving effect to those provisions

of this Agreement which involve joint action and , generally , with

a view to facilitating the operation and furthering the objectives of this Agreement . Wherever reference is made in this

Agreement to the contracting parties acting jointly they are

designated as the CONTRACTING PARTIES .

2.

The Secretary- General of the United Nations is requested

to convene the first meeting of the CONTRACTING PARTIES which

shall take place not later than March 1 , 1948 .

3.

Each contracting party shall be entitled to have one vote

at all meetings of the CONTRACTING PARTIES .

4.

Except as otherwise provided for in this Agreement , decisions

of the CONTRACTING PARTIES shall be taken by a majority of the

votes cast .

5.

In exceptional circumstances not elsewhere provided for in

this Agreement , the CONTRACTING PARTIES may waive an obligation imposed upon a contracting party by this Agreement ; Provided that any such decision shall be approved by a two - thirds majority of the votes cast and that such majority shall comprise more than half of the contracting parties . The CONTRACTING PARTIES

may also by such a vote

(a) define certain categories of exceptional circumstances

to which other voting requirements shall apply for the

waiver of obligations , and

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A69

(b) prescribe such criteria as may be necessary for the application of this paragraph . Article XXVI Acceptance . Entry into Force and Registration
1. The present Agreement shall bear the date of the signature of the Final Act adopted at the conclusion of the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment ['] and shall be open to acceptance by any government signatory to the Final Act . 2. This Agreement , done in a single English original and in a single French original , both texts authentic , shall be deposited with the Secretary - General of the United Nations , who shall furnish certified copies thereof to all interested governments . 3. Each government accepting this Agreement shall deposit an instrument of acceptance with the Secretary - General of the United Nations , who will inform all interested governments of the date of deposit of each instrument of acceptance and of the day on which this Agreement enters into force under paragraph 5 of this Article . 4. Each government accepting this Agreement does so in respect of its metropolitan territory and of the other territories for which it has international responsibility ; Provided that it may at the time of acceptance declare that any separate customs territory for which it has international responsibility possesses full autonomy in the conduct of its external commercial relations and of the other matters provided for in this Agreement , and that its acceptance does not relate to such territory ; and Provided further that if any of the customs territories on behalf of which a contracting party has accepted this Agreement possesses or acquires full autonomy in the conduct of its external commercial relations and of the other matters provided for in this Agreement ,
[Ante, p. A7.]

A70

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

such territory shall , upon sponsorship through a declaration

by the responsible contracting party establishing the above-

mentioned fact , be deemed to be a contracting party . [']

5.

(a) This Agreement shall enter into force , as among the

governments which have accepted it , on the thirtieth day following

the day on which instruments of acceptance have been deposited

with the Secretary- General of the United Nations on behalf of

governments signatory to the Final Act the territories of which

account for eighty- five per centum of the total external trade of the territories of the signatories to the Final Act adopted at the conclusion of the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment . Such percentage shall be determined in accordance with the table set forth in Annex H. [ 2 ] The instrument of acceptance of each

other government signatory to the Final Act shall take effect on the thirtieth day following the day on which such instrument is deposited .
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub- paragraph ( a)

of this paragraph , this Agreement shall not enter into force

under this paragraph until any agreement necessary under the provisions of paragraph 2 ( a ) of Article XXIX has been reached .

6.

The United Nations is authorized to effect registration of

this Agreement as soon as it enters into force . Article XXVII

Withholding or Withdrawal of Concessions

Any contracting party shall at any time be free to withhold

or to withdraw in whole or in part any concession , provided for in the appropriate Schedule annexed to this Agreement , in respect of which such contracting party determines that it was initially

1 [Post, p. A90. ] [Post, p. 484. ]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A71

negotiated with a government which has not become , or has ceased

to be, a contracting party . The contracting party taking such

action shall give notice to all other contracting parties and ,

upon request , consult with the contracting parties which have a

substantial interest in the product concerned .

Article XXVIII

Modification of Schedules

1.

On or after January 1 , 1951 , any contracting party may , by

negotiation and agreement with any other contracting party with

which such treatment was initially negotiated , and subject to consultation with such other contracting parties as the CONTRACTING PARTIES determine to have a substantial interest in such treatment ,

modify, or cease to apply , the treatment which it has agreed to accord under Article II to any product described in the appropriate Schedule annexed to this Agreement . In such negotiations and

agreement , which may include provision for compensatory adjustment with respect to other products , the contracting parties concerned shall endeavour to maintain a general level of reciprocal and mutually advantageous concessions not less favourable to

trade than that provided for in the present Agreement .

2.

(a) If agreement between the contracting parties primarily

concerned cannot be reached , the contracting party which proposes

to modify or cease to apply such treatment shall , nevertheless ,

be free to do so , and if such action is taken the contracting

party with which such treatment was initially negotiated , and

the other contracting parties determined under paragraph 1 of this Article to have a substantial interest , shall then be free , not

later than six months after such action is taken , to withdraw,

upon the expiration of thirty days from the day on which written notice of such withdrawal is received by the CONTRACTING PARTIES ,

A72

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

substantially equivalent concessions initially negotiated with

the contracting party taking such action . (b) If agreement between the contracting parties primarily
concerned is reached but any other contracting party determined under paragraph 1 of this Article to have a substantial interest is not satisfied , such other contracting party shall be free , not later than six months after action under such agreement is taken , to withdraw, upon the expiration of thirty days from the day on which written notice of such withdrawal is received by the CONTRACTING PARTIES , substantially equivalent concessions initially negotiated with a contracting party taking action under such agreement .
Article XXIX

Relation of this Agreement to the Charter for an International Trade Organization

1.

The contracting parties , recognizing that the objectives

set forth in the preamble of this Agreement can best be attained

through the adoption , by the United Nations Conference on Trade

and Employment , of a Charter leading to the creation of an

International Trade Organization , undertake , pending their

acceptance of such a Charter in accordance with their constitu-

tional procedures , to observe to the fullest extent of their

executive authority the general principles of the Draft Charter

submitted to the Conference by the Preparatory Committee .

2.

(a) On the day on which the Charter of the International

Trade Organization enters into force , Article I and Part II of

this Agreement shall be suspended and superseded by the corresponding provisions of the Charter ; Provided that within

sixty days of the closing of the United Nations Conference on

Trade and Employment any contracting party may lodge with the

other contracting parties an objection to any provision or

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A73

provisions of this Agreement being so suspended and superseded ;

in such case the contracting parties shall , within sixty days

after the final date for the lodging of objections , confer to

consider the objection in order to agree whether the provisions of

the Charter to which objection has been lodged , or the correspond-

ing provisions of this Agreement in its existing form or any

amended form , shall apply . (b) The contracting parties will also agree concerning the
transfer to the International Trade Organization of their functions under Article XXV .

3.

If any contracting party has not accepted the Charter when

it has entered into force , the contracting parties shall confer

to agree whether , and if so in what way , this Agreement , insofar

as it affects relations between the contracting party which has

not accepted the Charter and other contracting parties , shall be

supplemented or amended .

4.

During the month of January 1949 , should the Charter not

have entered into force , or at such earlier time as may be agreed

if it is known that the Charter will not enter into force , or at

such later time as may be agreed if the Charter ceases to be in

force , the contracting parties shall meet to agree whether this

Agreement shall be amended , supplemented or maintained .

5.

The signatories of the Final Act which are not at the time

contracting parties shall be informed of any objection lodged by a contracting party under the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article and also of any agreement which may be reached between the contracting parties under paragraphs 2 , 3 or 4 of this Article .

A74

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Article XXX

Amendments

1.

Except where provision for modification is made elsewhere

in this Agreement , amendments to the provisions of Part I of

this Agreement or to the provisions of Article XXIX or of this

Article shall become effective upon acceptance by all the

contracting parties , and other amendments to this Agreement shall

become effective , in respect of those contracting parties which

accept them, upon acceptance by two- thirds of the contracting

parties and thereafter for each other contracting party upon

acceptance by it .

2.

Any contracting party accepting an amendment to this

Agreement shall deposit an instrument of acceptance with the Secretary-General of the United Nations within such period as the CONTRACTING PARTIES may specify . The CONTRACTING PARTIES may

decide that any amendment made effective under this Article is

of such a nature that any contracting party which has not accepted it within a period specified by the CONTRACTING PARTIES shall be

free to withdraw from this Agreement , or to remain a contracting

party with the consent of the CONTRACTING PARTIES . Article XXXI

Withdrawal

Without prejudice to the provisions of Article XXIII or of paragraph 2 of Article XX , any contracting party may , on or after January 1 , 1951 , withdraw from this Agreement , or may separately withdraw on behalf of any of the separate customs territories for which it has international responsibility and which at the time possesses full autonomy in the conduct of its external commercial

relations and of the other matters provided for in this Agreement ,

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A75

The withdrawal shall take effect on or after January 1 , 1951 , upon the expiration of six months from the day on which written notice of withdrawal is received by the Secretary - General of the United Nations .

Article XXXII Contracting Parties

1.

The contracting parties to this Agreement shall be

understood to mean those governments which are applying the

provisions of this Agreement under Article XXVI or pursuant to the Protocol of Provisional Application . [']

2.

At any time after the entry into force of this Agreement

pursuant to paragraph 5 of Article XXVI , those contracting

parties which have accepted this Agreement pursuant to

paragraph 3 of Article XXVI may decide that any contracting

party which has not so accepted it shall cease to be a

contracting party .

Article XXXIII

Accession

A government not party to this Agreement , or a government acting on behalf of a separate customs territory possessing full autonomy in the conduct of its external commercial relations and of the other matters provided for in this Agreement , may accede to this Agreement , on its own behalf or on behalf of that territory , on terms to be agreed between such government and the contracting parties .

Article XXXIV Annexes
The annexes to this Agreement are hereby made an integral part of this Agreement .

[61 Stat., Pt. 6, p. 42051. ]

A76

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ANNEX A
LIST OF TERRITORIES REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 2 (a ) OF ARTICLE I
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
Dependent territories of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland
Canada
Commonwealth of Australia
Dependent territories of the Commonwealth of Australia
New Zealand
Dependent territories of New Zealand
Union of South Africa including South West Africa
Ireland
India (as on April 10 , 1947)
Newfoundland
Southern Rhodesia
Burma
Ceylon
Certain of the territories listed above have two or more preferential rates in force for certain products . Any such territory may , by agreement with the other contracting parties which are principal suppliers of such products at the mostfavoured -nation rate , substitute for such preferential rates a single preferential rate which shall not on the whole be less favourable to suppliers at the most - favoured - nation rate than the preferences in force prior to such substitution .
The imposition of an equivalent margin of tariff preference to replace a margin of preference in an internal tax existing on April 10 , 1947 , exclusively between two or more of the territories listed in this Annex or to replace the preferential quantitative arrangements described in the following paragraph , shall not be deemed to constitute an increase in a margin of tariff preference .
The preferential arrangements referred to in paragraph 5 ( b ) of Article XIV are those existing in the United Kingdom on April 10 , 1947 , under contractual agreements with the Governments of Canada , Australia and New Zealand , in respect of chilled and frozen beef and veal , frozen mutton and lamb , chilled and frozen pork , and bacon . It is the intention , without prejudice to any action taken under part I ( h) of Article XX , that these arrangements shall be eliminated or replaced by tariff preferences , and that negotiations to this end shall take place as soon as practicable among the countries substantially concerned or involved .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A77

The film hire tax in force in New Zealand on April 10 , 1947 , shall , for the purposes of this Agreement , be treated as a customs duty under Article I. The renters ' film quota in force in New Zealand on April 10 , 1947 , shall , for the purposes of this Agreement , be treated as a screen quota under Article IV .

95347 0-49-pt. 5- 6

A78

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ANNEX B LIST OF TERRITORIES OF THE FRENCH UNION REFERRED TO
IN PARAGRAPH 2 ( b ) OF ARTICLE I
France *
French Equatorial Africa ( Treaty Basin of the Congo and other territories )
French West Africa Cameroons under French Mandate * French Somali Coast and Dependencies
K French Establishments in India' French Establishments in Oceania French Establishments in the Condominium of the New
Hebrides X
Guadeloupe and Dependencies French Guiana Indo - China
Madagascar and Dependencies Morocco ( French zone ) * Martinique New Caledonia and Dependencies Réunion Saint- Pierre and Miquelon
 Togo under French Mandate" Tunisia
X For imports into Metropolitan France

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A79

ANNEX C LIST OF TERRITORIES OF THE CUSTOMS UNION OF BELGIUM ,
LUXEMBOURG AND THE NETHERLANDS REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 2 ( b ) OF ARTICLE I
The Economic Union of Belgium and Luxembourg Belgian Congo Ruanda Urundi Netherlands Netherlands Indies Surinam Curacao
For imports into the metropolitan territories constituting the Customs Union .

A80

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ANNEX D
LIST OF TERRITORIES REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 2 ( b ) OF ARTICLE I AS RESPECTS THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States of America ( customs territory ) Dependent territories of the United States of America Republic of the Philippines
The imposition of an equivalent margin of tariff preference to replace a margin of preference in an internal tax existing on April 10 , 1947 , exclusively between two or more of the territories listed in this Annex shall not be deemed to constitute an increase in a margin of tariff preference .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A81

ANNEX E
LIST OF TERRITORIES COVERED BY PREFERENTIAL ARRANGEMENTS BETWEEN CHILE AND NEIGHBOURING COUNTRIES
REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 2 (d ) OF ARTICLE I
Preferences in force exclusively between Chile , on the one hand , and
1. Argentina 2. Bolivia 3. Peru on the other hand .

A82

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ANNEX F
LIST OF TERRITORIES COVERED BY PREFERENTIAL ARRANGEMENTS BETWEEN LEBANON AND SYRIA AND NEIGHBOURING COUNTRIES REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 2 ( d ) OF ARTICLE I
Preferences in force exclusively between the LebanoSyrian Customs Union , on the one hand , and
1. Palestine 2. Transjordan on the other hand .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A83

ANNEX G
DATES ESTABLISHING MAXIMUM MARGINS OF PREFERENCE REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 3 OF ARTICLE I

Australia Canada France Lebano- Syrian Customs Union Union of South Africa Southern Rhodesia

October 15 , 1946 July 1 , 1939 January 1 , 1939 November 30 , 1939 July 1 , 1938 May 1 , 1941

A84

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

ANNEX H

PERCENTAGE SHARES OF TOTAL EXTERNAL TRADE TO BE USED FOR THE PURPOSE OF MAKING THE DETERMINATION REFERRED
TO IN ARTICLE XXVI

( based on the average of 1938 and the latest twelve months for which figures are available )
Percentage

Australia
Belgium- Luxemburg- Netherlands Brazil Burma Canada
Ceylon Chile China Cuba Czechoslovakia French Union India Pakistan New Zealand
Norway Southern Rhodesia Lebano- Syrian Customs Union Union of South Africa United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland United States of America

3.2 10.9
2.8 0.7 7.2 0.6 0.6 2.7 0.9 1.4 9.4

}

3.3 *

1.2

1.5

0.3

0.1

2.3

25.7 25.2

100.0

Note : These percentages have been determined taking into account the trade of all territories for which countries mentioned above have international
responsibility and which are not self- governing in matters dealt with in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade .

The allocation of this percentage will be made by agreement between the governments of India and Pakistan and will be communicated as soon as possible to the Secretary - General of the United Nations .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A85

ANNEX I INTERPRETATIVE NOTES
ad Article I

Paragraph 1

The obligations incorporated in paragraph 1 of Article I by reference to paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article III and those incorporated in paragraph 2 ( b ) of Article II by reference to Article VI shall be considered as falling within Part II for the purposes of the Protocol of Provisional Application . [ ']
Paragraph 3

The term " margin of preference " means the absolute difference between the most- favoured- nation rate of duty and the preferential rate of duty for the like product , and not the proportionate relation between those rates . As examples :

1.) If the most- favoured - nation rate were 36 per cent ad valorem and the preferential rate were 24 per cent ad valorem , the margin of preference would be 12 per cent ad valorem , and not one - third of the mostfavoured- nation rate ;

2.) If the most- favoured - nation rate were 36 per cent ad valorem and the preferential rate were expressed as two- thirds of the most - favoured- nation rate , the margin of preference would be 12 per cent ad valorem ;
3.) If the most- favoured- nation rate were 2 francs per kilogram and the preferential rate were 1.50 francs per kilogram , the margin of preference would be 0.50 francs per kilogram .

The following kinds of customs action , taken in accordance with established uniform procedures , would not be contrary to a general binding of margins of preference :

( 1 ) the re-application to an imported product of a tariff classification or rate of duty , properly applicable to such product , in cases in which the application of such classification or rate to such product was temporarily suspended or inoperative on April 10 , 1947; and

( 11 )

the classification of a particular product under a
tariff item other than that under which importations of that product were classified on April 10 , 1947 , in cases in which the tariff law clearly contemplates that such product may be classified under more than one tariff item .

1 [ 61 Stat., Pt. 6, p. A2051 . ]

A86

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

ad Article II
Paragraph 2 (b)
See the note relating to paragraph 1 of Article I.
Paragraph 4
Except where otherwise specifically agreed between the contracting parties which initially negotiated the concession , the provisions of this paragraph will be applied in the light of the provisions of Article 31 of the Draft Charter referred to in Article XXIX of this Agreement .
ad Article V
Paragraph 5
With regard to transportation charges , the principle laid down in paragraph 5 refers to like products being transported on the same route under like conditions .
ad Article VI
Paragraph 1
Hidden dumping by associated houses ( that is , a sale by an importer at a price below that corresponding to the price invoiced by an exporter with whom the importer is associated , and also below the price in the exporting country) constitutes a form of price dumping .
Paragraph 2
Multiple currency practices can in certain circumstances constitute a subsidy to exports which may be met by countervailing duties under paragraph 2 or can constitute a form of dumping by means of a partial depreciation of a country's currency which may be met by action under paragraph 1 of this Article . By "multiple currency practices " is meant practices by governments or sanctioned by governments .
Paragraph 2
The obligations set forth in paragraph 7 , as in the case of other obligations under this Agreement , are subject to the provisions of Article XIX .
ad Article VII
Paragraph 1
Consideration was given to the desirability of replacing the words " at the earliest practicable date " by a definite date or , alternatively , by a provision for a specified limited period to be fixed later . It was appreciated that it would not be possible for all contracting parties to give effect to these principles by a fixed time , but it was nevertheless understood that a majority of the contracting parties would give effect to them at the time the Agreement enters into force .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A87

Paragraph 2
It would be in conformity with Article VII to presume that "actual value " may be represented by the invoice price , plus any non- included charges for legitimate costs which are proper elements of " actual value " and plus any abnormal discount or other reduction from the ordinary competitive price .
It would be in conformity with Article VII , paragraph 2 ( b) , for a contracting party to construe the phrase " in the ordinary course of trade " , read in conjunction with "under fully competitive conditions " , as excluding any transaction wherein the buyer and seller are not independent of each other and price is not the sole consideration .
The prescribed standard of " fully competitive conditions " permits contracting parties to exclude from consideration distributors ' prices which involve special discounts limited to exclusive agents .
The wording of sub - paragraphs ( a ) and ( b ) permits a contracting party to assess duty uniformly either ( 1 ) on the basis of a particular exporter's prices of the imported merchandise , or ( 2) on the basis of the general price level of like merchandise .
ad Article VIII
While Article VIII does not cover the use of multiple rates of exchange as such , paragraphs 1 and 4 condemn the use of exchange taxes or fees as a device for implementing multiple currency practices ; if , however , a contracting party is using multiple currency exchange fees for balance - of- payments reasons with the approval of the International Monetary Fund , the provisions of paragraph 2 fully safeguard its position since that paragraph merely requires that the fees be eliminated at the earliest practicable date .
ad Article XI
Paragraph 2 ( c)
The term " in any form" in this paragraph covers the same products when in an early stage of processing and still perishable , which compete directly with the fresh product and if freely imported would tend to make the restriction on the fresh product ineffective .
Paragraph 2. last sub-paragraph
The term " special factors " includes changes in relative productive efficiency as between domestic and foreign producers , or as between different foreign producers , but not changes artificially brought about by means not permitted under the Agreement .
ad Article XII
Paragraph 3 ( b) ( 1)
The phrase "notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of

A88

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

this Article " has been included in the text to make it quite clear that a contracting party's import restrictions otherwise " necessary" within the meaning of paragraph 2 ( a ) shall not be considered unnecessary on the ground that a change in domestic policies as referred to in the text could improve a contracting party's monetary reserve position . The phrase is not intended to suggest that the provisions of paragraph 2 are affected in any other way .
Consideration was given to the special problems that might be created for contracting parties which , as a result of their programmes of full employment , maintenance of high and rising levels of demand and economic development , find themselves faced with a high level of demand for imports , and in consequence maintain quantitative regulation of their foreign trade . It was considered that the present text of Article XII together with the provision for export controls in certain parts of the Agreement , e.g. in Article XX , fully meet the position of these economies .
ad Article XIII
Paragraph 2 ( d )
No mention was made of " commercial considerations " as a rule for the allocation of quotas because it was considered that its application by governmental authorities might not always be practicable . Moreover , in cases where it is practicable , a contracting party could apply these considerations in the process of seeking agreement , consistently with the general rule laid down in the opening sentence of paragraph 2 .
Paragraph 4
See note relating to " special factors " in connection with the last sub- paragraph of paragraph 2 of Article XI .
ad Article XIV
Paragraph 3
It was not considered necessary to make express reference in paragraph 3 to the need for the CONTRACTING PARTIES to consult with the International Monetary Fund , since such consultation in all appropriate cases was already required by virtue of the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article XV .
Paragraph 6 (b)
Suspension of any measure for a period of fifteen days would be for the purpose of making the consultation effective , and among the special circumstances which would justify such suspension would be the immediate damage caused to producers of perishable commodities ready for shipment or to consumers of essential goods of which the importing country had no stocks .
ad Article XV
Paragraph 4
The word " frustrate " is intended to indicate , for example , that infringements of the letter of any Article of this Agreement

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A89

by exchange action shall not be regarded as a violation of that Article if, in practice , there is no appreciable departure from the intent of the Article . Thus , a contracting party which , as part of its exchange control operated in accordance with the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund , [ ' ] requires payment to be received for its exports in its own currency or in the currency of one or more members of the International Monetary Fund will not thereby be deemed to contravene Article XI or Article XIII . Another example would be that of a contracting party which specifies on an import licence the country from which the goods may be imported , for the purpose not of introducing any additional element of discrimination in its import licensing system but of enforcing permissible exchange controls .
ad ARTICLE XVII
Paragraph 1
The operations of Marketing Boards , which are established by contracting parties and are engaged in purchasing or selling , are subject to the provisions of sub- paragraphs ( a) and ( b ) .
The activities of Marketing Boards which are established by contracting parties and which do not purchase or sell but lay down regulations covering private trade are governed by the relevant Articles of this Agreement .
The charging by a state enterprise of different prices for its sales of a product in different markets is not precluded by the provisions of this Article , provided that such different prices are charged for commercial reasons , to meet conditions of supply and demand in export markets .
Paragraph 1 ( a)
Governmental measures imposed to ensure standards of quality and efficiency in the operation of external trade , or privileges granted for the exploitation of national naturál resources but which do not empower the government to exercise control over the trading activities of the enterprise in question , do not constitute " exclusive or special privileges " .
Paragraph 1 (b)
A country receiving a " tied loan " is free to take this loan into account as a " commercial consideration " when purchasing requirements abroad .
Paragraph 2
The term " goods " is limited to products as understood in commercial practice , and is not intended to include the purchase or sale of services .
ad ARTICLE XXIV
Paragraph 5
Measures adopted by India and Pakistan in order to carry out definitive trade arrangements between them , once they have been
1 [ 60 Stat. 1401.]

A90

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

agreed upon , might depart from particular provisions of this Agreement , but these measures would in general be consistent with the objectives of the Agreement .
ad ARTICLE XXVI
Territories for whichthe contracting parties have international responsibility do not include areas under military occupation .
FINAL NOTE
The applicability of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to the trade of contracting parties with the areas under military occupation has not been dealt with and is reserved for further study at an early date . Meanwhile , nothing in this Agreement shall be taken to prejudge the issues involved . This , of course , does not affect the applicability of the provisions of Articles XXII and XXIII to matters arising from such trade .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A91

INDEX TO LIST OF SCHEDULES

SCHEDULE SCHEDULE SCHEDULE SCHEDULE SCHEDULE SCHEDULE SCHEDULE SCHEDULE SCHEDULE SCHEDULE SCHEDULE

I-COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA . II - BELGIUM -LUXEMBURG -NETHERLANDS ..... III-UNITED STATES OF BRAZIL .. IV- BURMA .. V-CANADA . VI-CEYLON . VII- REPUBLIC OF CHILE . VIII- REPUBLIC OF CHINA . IX -REPUBLIC OF CUBA .. X-CZECHOSLOVAK REPUBLIC . XI-FRENCH UNION ..

Pages A93 A201 A297 A383 A389 A493 A507 A525 A545 A643 A699

SCHEDULE

Section A. - Metropolitan Territory .. Section B. French Equatorial Africa . Section C.-French West Africa .. Section D.- French Somali Coast and
Dependencies . Section E. -French Establishments in Oceania
Section F. - Guadeloupe and Dependencies ... Section G. - French Guiana . Section H.- Indo- China . . . Section I. - Madagascar and Dependencies .. Section J.-Martinique . Section K. - New Caledonia and Dependencies . Section L.-Reunion .. Section M.-St. Pierre et Miquelon .. Section N.- Tunisia ..
XII- INDIA . . ...

Pages A699 A912 A915
A918 A919 A921 A922 A923 A925 A928 A929 A934 A935 A937
A941

SCHEDULE SCHEDULE SCHEDULE

XIII-NEW ZEALAND . XIV-KINGDOM OF NORWAY . XV- PAKISTAN ..

A953 A989 A1003

SCHEDULE XVI-SOUTHERN RHODESIA ..

A 1015

SCHEDULE XVII- SYRO -LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION ..

A1017

SCHEDULE XVIII- UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA ..

A1039

SCHEDULE SCHEDULE

XIX-UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND

NORTHERN IRELAND ..

A1071

Section A. - Metropolitan Territory . Section B. - Newfoundland .. Section C. - Dependent Territories of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ..
Section D. -Malayan Union .. Section E.- Palestine . . .

Pages A1071 A1144
A1152 A1153 A1154

XX-UNITED STATES OF AMERICA .

A1157

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A93

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Schedule I is authentic only in the English language.
Part I - Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff



Australian Tariff Item
Number 3 (A) (c)
(D)
(3)

Description of Products
Spirits,-and spirituous liquors , n, e , i, : Brandy (1) When not excceding the strength of proof
per gallon
(2) When exceeding the strength of proof per proof gallon
Gin, distilled wholly from barley malt, grain , grape wine or fruit, and certified in the prescribed form by the competent Government official in the country of production to be gin distilled wholly from barley malt, grain, grape wine or fruit (1) When not exceeding the strength of proof
per gallon
(2) When exceeding the strength of proof por proof gallon
Rum, pure, distilled wholly from sugar, sugar syrup , molasses , or the refuse of sugar cane , by a pot-still or similar process at a strength not exceeding 45 per cent. over proof and certified in the prescribed form by the competent Government official in the country of production to be pure rum distilled wholly from sugar, sugar syrup , molasses , or the refuse o-f sugar canc, under the oonditions specified (1) When not exccoding the strength of proof per gallon
(2) When exceeding the strength of proof per proof gallon
Blended Rum, distilled wholly from sugar, sugar syrup, molasses , or the refuse of sugar cane , containing not less than 25 per cent, of pure spirit which has been separately distilled from sugar, sugar syrup , molasses , or the refuse of sugar cane, by a pot-still or similar process at a strength not exceeding 45 per cent. over proof and certified in the pr scribed form by the competent Government official in the country of production to be rum distilled wholly from sugar, sugar syrup, molasses , or the refuse of sugar cane, under the conditions specificd and so blended(1) When not exceeding the strength of proof per gallon (2) When exceeding the strength of proof per proof gallon

Rate of Duty 588.6d. 588.64
658.64. 65s. 6d.
650.60. 653.6d.
669.60. 66s. 6d.

95347 0-49- -pt. 5- -7

A94

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian
Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3(continued ) (G)

Spirits , and spirituous liquors , n.e.i.:(continued) Bitters
(1 ) When not exceeding the strength of proof per gallon
(2) When exceeding the strength of proof per proof gallon

70s. 6d. /. 70s. 6d. M.

(H)

Liqueurs -

(1) When not exceeding the strength of proof per gallon

563.6d.

(2 ) When exceeding the strength of proof per proof gallon)

568.6d.

8

Perfumed Spirits

per gallon

459.

and ad val. 30 per cent.A/.

10(A)(2)

Chloroform containing not more than 5 per cent. of proof spirit

...... B/

12

Wine, sparkling, viz.:-

(A) Champagne

(B ) Other

per gallon per gallon

225. 309. 4 .

13 (A)

Wine, Still (including Medicated and Vermouth) : -

Containing up to and including 35 per cent. of proof spirit: -

(1) In bulk

(2 ) In bottle

per gallon

...... B/. 128,

17(A)

Aerated or mineral waters , viz.- Contrexeville , Evian, Perrier, St. Galmier, Vals and Vittel
ad val.

15 per cent.

18

Tobacco, unmanufactured, n.e.i.

per lb.

128.

 123

A/. See note at end of Part I.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE OCT. 30, 1947

A95

SCHEDULE I- COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Itcm
Number
19(4)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Tobacco, unmanufactured, entered to be locally manufactured into tobacco other than fine cut tobacco suitable for the manufacture
of cigarettes to be paid at the time of romoval to the factory -

(1) Unstemmed

per lb.

(2) Stemmed, or partly stommed , or in strips per lb.

(3) For the manufacture of tobacco containing not less than such proportion by weight

of stemmed Australian-grown tobacco leaf (or its equivalent in terms of unstemmed tobacco leaf ) to the total atemmed tobacco leaf ( or its equivalent in terms of unstemmed tobacco leaf) used, as the Minister may from time to time determine having regard to the available supply of suitable Australian-grown tobacco leaf , as prescribed by Departmental By-laws ·

(a) Unstemmed

per I.

(b) Stemmed, or partly stemmed, or in

strips

per Ib.

NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make , amend or revoko By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 19(A) (3 ) .

63.60. 78.
59. 58.66.

A96

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 19(B)
Ex 22 23 24
Ex 43(A)

Description of Products

Tobacco, unmanufactured, entered to be locally manufactured into cigarettes or into fine out tobacco suitable for the manufacture of
oigarettes - to be paid at the time of removal to the factory ·-

(1) Unsteamed

per lb.

(2) Stemmed, or partly stemmed, or in strips

per lb.

(3) For the manufacture of cigarettes containing not less than such proportion by weight of stemmed Australian-grown tobacco leaf (or its equivalent in terms of unstemmed tobacco leaf ) to the total stemmed tobacco
leaf (or its equivalent in terms of unstemmed tobacco leaf) used, as the Minister may from time to time de tormino
having regard to the available supply of suitable Australian-grown tobacco leaf, as prescribed by Departmental By- laws ·

(a) Unstemmed

per Ib.

(b) Stemmed, or partly stemmed, or in

strips

per lb.

NOTE: The Government or the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make, amend or revoke By- laws relating to products admissible under Item 19(B ) ( 3 ).

Cigarettes , including weight of oards and mouthpicoes contained in inside packages ·

(B) Other

per I.

Tobacco, unmanufactured, entered to be locally manufactured into cigars · to be paid at the time of removal to the factory: -

(A) Unstommed

per lb.

(B) Stemmed, or partly stemmed, or in strips per lb.

Cigars, including the weight of bands and

ribbons

per lb.

Coffee, raw and kiln driod

per lb.

Rate of Duty
83.78, 98. ld.
73.20 78,8d
31s. 28,64 30, 298.44. Jd.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A97

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 44
46 19 50

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Confectionery, Cocoa and Chocolate, viz.:-

(A) Cocoa Boans, whole or broken, raw;

Cocoa sholls , raw

por Ib.

(B)(1) Cocoa beans shells and nibs, roasted per lb.

(2) Cocoa mass pasto or slab , sweetened per lb.
or ad val, whichever rate returns the higher duty
(3) Cocoa mass paste or slab , unsweetened per lb.

(c)(1) Cocoa butter for the manufacture of

chocolate, as prescribed by Departmental

By-laws

per Ib.

NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make , amend or revoko By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 44(C)(1).

(2) Cocoa butter n, e, i , and socoa butter

substitutes

per lb.

(D) Cocoa and chocolate, in poïdored or granulated form, for potable use per Ib.

Egg albumon, dry

per lb.

Egg yolk, dry

per lb.

Eggs, in shell

per dozen

14 A/.
274. 20 per cont.
14. A/. 28. A/.
34d. M. 4d. A/. 38.6d. 94 64

A/. See note at end of Part I.

A98

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued )

Australian Tariff Item
Number 51
52 Ex 53(A)
54(A)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Fish, viz.:-

(B ) Fresh, smoked or dried (but not salted) , or

preserved by cold process

per lb.

(c) Preserved in tins or other air- tight vessels

including the weight of liquid contents -

(1) Salmon

per lb.

(3)(a) Sardines (Sardina pilohardus) ,

gooked in oil and preserved in

oil (accompanied by a certificate

issued by a Chamber of Commerce or other official authorized body,

oertifying that the sardines , preserved in oil, have been prepared after being cooked in oil) in sealed tin containers per lb.

(b) Sardinos n.e.i. , sild, brisling, and similar small immature fish per lb.

(4) Other

(F) N.E.I.

per owt.

Fruits, Fresh, vis, : ~ (A) Bananas
Fruits , Dried , viz.:Desicoated Banana; Banana Flour

per cental

Fruits and Vegetables , n.c.i. , including Ginger, n.c.1. (preserved in liquid, or partly preserved, or pulped) -

(1) Quarter-pints and smaller sizes per dozen

(2 ) Half-pints and over quarter-pints per dozen

(3) Pints and over half-pints (4) Quarts and over pints

per dosen per dozen

(5) Exceeding a quart

per gallon

(6) When preserved in spirituous liquid,

additional duty to be paid on the

Liquid

Per gallon

ld.
21d. /.
20. A/. 22. A/. ...... B/. 50. 88.4d. Free
18.9d. 3s. 6d. 78. 148. 40.30 318. A/.

A/. See note at end of Part I.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A99

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

54(B)

Asparagus tips preserved in airtight containers -

(1) Half-pints and smaller sizes

per dozen

38.6d. A/.

54(C)

Petits Pois and mushrooms , preserved in liquid,

or partly preserved, or pulped -

(1) Quarter-pints and smaller sizes

per dozen

(2) Half-pints and over quarter-pints per dozen

(3) Pints and over hal -pinto (4) Quarts and ever pints

per dozen por dozen

18.9d 3s.6d 75. 148.

555

Infants' and Invalids ' Foods , as prescribed by

Departmental By- laws

Free

NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of

Australia shall be free to make, amend or

revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 55.

56 Ex 57(D)

Ginger, vis, i(E ) Dry, unground
Lentils not prepared or manufactured

per oental

...... B/. 15.

Ex 58(D)

Lentils , prepared or mar.ufactured, when not

packed for retail sale

per lb.

74

74

Meats, Poultry, Game and Soup , viz, : -

Ex (B ) Goose and duck Foie Gras in a natural forms

Pate do Foic Gras; creme , mousse, puree

of Foie Gras; lark pates

ad val

30 per cent.

76

Mus tard, including French Mustard

per lb.

40.

78

Nuts , Edible , viz.:-

(B) Coconuts, whole

per art.

18.

(c) Coconuts , prepared

per lb.

20.

Ex (E) Brazil Nuts in the form of Kernels,

Pastes and Meals

per lb.

3d.

(I ) Walnuts , vize : ~ (1) Unshellod (2) Kernels

per lb.

2d,

per lb.

40.

A/. See note at end of Part I.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

A100

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I- COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

32

Australian Tariff Item
Number
82

Description of Products

Pickles , Sauces , Chutney, Olives , and Capers -

(H ) Curry, manufactured, whether paste or

powder

per lb.

Rate of Duty 3d

85

86

Rice Root

Free

87

Sago and Tapioca -

(B ) N.E.I.

ad val. 10 per cent. A/.

Ex 90

Sausage casings , hog, natural

Free

91(A)

Seeds and Nuts , for the manufacture of Oils, 011

cake and other by-products, as prescribed by

Departmental By- laws

Free

NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of

Australia shall be free to make, amend or

revoke By- laws relating to products admissible under Item 91 (A).

24

94

Soap

(A) Toilet, Fancy, or Medicated

per lb.

60

or ad val. 25 per cent.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(B ) N.E.I. soap substitutes and compounded

detergents for washing and cleansing

purposes , not including saponaceous

disinfectants

ad val.

30 per cent.

96

Spices -

Ex (A) ( 1 ) Unground , viz.:- Cardamom, Chillies ,

Cloves and Pepper

ad val. 10 per cent. ^/.

Ex (A) ( 1 ) Unground, viz.:- Cinnamon

ad val. 15 per cent.

(A)(2) Unground, n.e.i. , including Aniseed

Free

98(C) 104

Potato flour or farina
Waxes Ex (c) Carnauba; Ouricury or lioury

per out.

168. 4. Free

A/. See note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A101

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 105
(A)(1)(a)
(A)( 1) (b)

Description of Products

Piece Goods, viz.:Cotton piece goods and piece goods containing a mixture of fibres in which cotton predominates
(excepting piece goods enumerated in sub-items (A), (D)(1) and (F)), n.e.i.-

(1) Unbleached, not being printed dyed or coloured

NOTE:

The products provided for under Item 105(A)(1XX1)shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than ·375d. per square yard.

(2 ) Bleached, not being printed dyed or coloured
NOTE : The products provided for under Item 105(A) ( 1 ) ( a) ( 2 ) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 5d. per square yard.

Cotton piece goods and piece goods containing a

mixture of fibres in which cotton predominates,

weighing more than 4 ounces per square yard but

less than 18 ounces per square yard, of types

which either as imported or when further

processed are principally used for manufacture

into men's or boys' overcoats ( other than

dustooats) coats vests trousers knickers (not

being underwear) aprons or overalls, (excepting

piece goods enumerated in sub-items (AA) and

(P) and piece goods ordinarily used as linings

or interlinings)

per lb.

and ad val.

Rate of Duty ...... ......
104. 50 per cent.

A102

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

105(continued) Piece Goods (continued)

(A) ( 1) (a) Cotton piece goods and piece goods containing a mixture of fibres in which cotton predominatos,

of a type which would otherwise be classified

under sub-item (A ) ( 1 ) (b) , as prescribed by

Departmental By-laws, viz.:- for use in the

manufacture of shirts ; for use as pocketings in the manufacture of outer clothing; undyed,

whether bleached or unbleached , for use in the manufacture of leathercloth rubbercloth and

other waterproofed cloth; undyed sheetings,

whether bleached or unbleached, for usc in the undyed state ; for use in the manufacture of

other goods not specified in sub-item (A ) ( 1 ) (b)

(1) Unbleached, not being printed dyed or

coloured

per square yard

(2) Bleached, not being printed dyed or coloured per square yard

(3) Printed, dyed or coloured per square yard NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of
Australia shall be free to make , amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 105(A)(1)(d) .

(A)(1)(0)

Tickings, bed, wholly of cotton or of cotton in
admixture with linen, woven wholly or partly from coloured yarns

NOTE :

The products provided for under Item 105(A) (1) (e ) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which
exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 75d. per square yard .

105(AA)

Piece Goods, Knitted or Lock-stitched , in

tubular form or otherwise (except picoo goods

enumerated in Item 208 (D) ( 2 ) ) of any material except when wholly of wool -

(2) Other

(a) Wholly of artificial silk

por lb. or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty,

(b) Not being wholly of artificial silk per lb.
or ad val. whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Rate of Duty
ja. 14. 2d,
......
38. 35 per cent,
3s. 35 per cent.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A103

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number
105(continued) 105(0)

Description of Products

Piece Goods (continued)

Piece goods, n.e.i. , including cotton piece
goods and piece goods containing a mixture of fibres in which cotton predominates but
not including piece goods wholly of silk or in which silk predominates or piece goods
enumerated in sub-items (A ), (D) (1) and (F) , suitable for human apparel, or to be worn in connexion with the human body, having on one or both sides a teased, treated, combed,
fluffed, or raised nap or surface in imitation of or resembling flannel in feel or
pearance (1) Unbleached, not being printed dyed or
coloured

NOTE:

The products provided for under Item 105(c)(1) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential
duties on such products by more than 375d. per square yard.

(2) Bleached, not being printed dyed ar coloured

NOTE:

The products provided for under Item 105(c)(2) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 5d, per square yard,

(3) Printed, dyol or coloured

NOTE:

The products provided for under Item 105(c)(3) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than ·75d, par square yard,

Rate of Duty

A104

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I ( continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

105 (continued) Piece Goods (continued)

105(D)

(2 ) Silk, or containing silk or having silk worked thereon, except piece goods enumerated in sub-items
(A)(4) , (AA) , (B) , (C) , (^) 8; 29. and in Item 130 ( B) ( 1 ) -
(a) The value for duty of which does not exceed 2s. 6d. per square yard
(b) The value for duty of which exceeds 2s . 6d. per square yard

105(E)

(1) Velvets , velveteens , plushes , astraohans,

scalette and cloths imitating furs,

except piece goods enumerated in

paragraph (4 ) of this sub-item

ad val .

(2) Lace for attire ; lace flouncings;

millinery nets ; dress nets ; veilings; embroideries in the piece ; tucked linens

or cottons

ad val.

(4) Moquettes of the type used for upholstery (a) Containing at least 20 per cent. by weight of wool
(b) Other

B/. B/.
171 per cent.
20 per cent. ...... B/.
B/.

B/. See note at end of Part I,

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A105

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

105(continued) Piece Goods (continued)

105(P)

(1) Piece Goods , woollen, or containing wool,

ordinarily used in the manufacture of

outer clothing for human wear and

weighing more than three ounces per

square yard

per square yard

and ad val.

(2) Picoe Goods , woollen, or containing wool ,

n.e.i.

ad val.

(4) Picce Goods , felt , of wool or containing Wool ·

(a ) Slipper upper felt

per square yard and ad val

(b) N.E.I.

per square yard and ad val.

105(x)

Linen piece goods , viz.:~ ( 2) N.E.I.

ad val.

106(A)

Cotton Featherstitoh Braids; Piping; Tinsel Cloth; Tinsel Belting, having warp or weft composed wholly of tinsel or of continuous throads of tinsel and an alternate thread of textile; Tinsel Throad
NOTE: The products provided for under
Item 106(A) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 10 per cent. ad valorem.

106(B )

Trimmings and ornaments, n.e.i. for hats shoes and other attire , not being partly or wholly of gold or silver; braids n, c, i .; fringes n.c.i.; frillings; rufflings ; pleatings; ruchings; galoons n.e.i .; ribbons n, e , i , j tinselled belting n.e.i.; webbings n.e, 1.; belting for apparel not elsewhere specified
and not being cut to lengths for belts; jabots and textile bows (not including bow ties), being articles of women's apparel
ad val.

A. See note at end of Part I.

Rate of Duty
la, 6d, 40 per cent. 45 per cent.
18.ltd. 30 per cent./.
ls,34. 30 per cent./. 25 per cent.
......
15 per cent.A/.

A106

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Nurber 106 (E )
106 (F)
107(A)
107 (B )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Buckles Clasps and Slides for Hats Shoes and other attire ·

(2) Wholly of metal ( not being partly or wholly

of gold or silver) including metal,

enamelled

ad val.

(3) Non-metallic, other than those made of

glass tinsel or pearl shell, with or

without metal fittings or metal

fastening devices

ad val.

Buttons, n.e.i. , including blanks and those partly finished ·

(2) Wholly of metal (not being partly or wholly

of gold or silver) excepting trouser

buttons

ad val

(4) Trochus , Pearl, or other Animal Shell, and imitations of trochus ar pearl shell ad val.

Woven and embroidered materials in the piece or

otherwise:- Badges , hat and cap fronts (badged),

medal ribbons (not being water-waved), looping

for boots and shoes; labels and hangers for all

purposes including plain hanger material;

tubular tie material in the piece; galoons

bands or bandings tapes and the like having

printed woven or embroidered lettering badge

trade name or mark or design thereon; ribbons

(not being water-waved) and galoons having not

more than 48 ribs to the lineal inch and being

not more than 3 inches in width; slipper,

shoe, and blazer bindings

ad val

Regalia Ribbons for use in the manufacturo of

Lodge Regalia, as prescribed by Departmental

By-laws

ad val.

NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make, amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 107(B).

40 per cent. 50 per cent. 40 per cent. 25 per cent.
45 per cent. N. 10 per cent. A.

A/. See note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A107

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I ( continued)

Australian Tariff Itom
Number 108(B) 109 110(A)
(5)
110(B ) (2)
(3)

Description of Products

Feathers, dressed, including feathers made up

into trimmings; also natural birds and

wings

ad val.

Artificial flowers fruits plants leaves and

grains, of all kinds and materials

ad val.

Apparel, other than knitted, viz.:-

Costumes , Dresses or Robes , but not including Dresscs or Robes for infants in arms , or such articles when not exceeding 22 inches in length, viz.: -

(b) Wool or containing wool

each and ad val.

ar , the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz.:-

ad val.

Apparel, knitted, and Apparel made from knitted or look-stitched piece goods , viz.:-

Coats, Jumpers, Car similar garments ·digans , Sweaters , and

(a) Girls' or Boys ' , i.e. , with chest

measurement under 34 inohes

each

and ad val.

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz.:-

ad val.

(b) Women's or Men's , i.e. , with sheat

measurement 34 inches and over

each

and ad val.

or , the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz.:-

ad val.

Costumes, Dresses or Robes -

(b) Wool or containing wool , but not containing silk or artificial silk each

and ad val

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz.:-

ad val

(a) Silk or artificial silk or containing

silk or artificial silk

each

and ad val

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz.:~

ad val.

1. See note at end of Part I.

Rate of Duty
30 per cent. 50 per cent. .
128.6d. 30 per cent. 50 per cent.
38. 30 per cent. 50 per ocnt.
58.6d. 30 per cent. 50 per cent.
10s. 30 per cent, 50 per cent.
128. 30 per cent. 50 per cent.

A108

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I ( continued)

(0)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 111 Ex (C) 112
(B ) ( 2) 113
(B)
114
114(E)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Artioles of natural or imitation hair: -

Hair Nets

ad val.

Furs and other Skins and artioles made thereof; -
Rabbit Skins dressed or prepared for making up per doz. skins

Gloves (except of rubber ) , viz.:-
N.E.I. including Mittens
NOTE: The products provided for under Item 113(B ) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 15 per cent. ad valorem.

Hats , Caps , and Bonnets -
Fur felt hats in any stage of manufacture for men and boys , including fur felt hoods therefor por dozen or ad val whichever rate returns the higher duty

Hoods for girls ' and women's hats , viz. ; -

(1) Wool Felt Hoods

per dozen or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(2 ) Fur Felt Hoods and Velour Hoods per dozen or ad val.
whichever rate returns the higher duty.

For the purposes of paragraph (1 ) of this sub-item the term " Hoods " includes hoods in any
stage of manufacture up to but not including the defining of the brim.

25 per cent. 83. M.
548. 45 per cent.
158. 45 per cent.
30s. 45 per cent.

A/. Sce note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A109

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 114 (P)( 1 )
(2) 114(G)
117(A) 118 (A)( 1 )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Felt Capelines for girls ' and women's hats -

(a) Wool Felt Capelines

per dozen

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(b) Fur Felt Capelines and Velour Capelines per dosen
or ad val.
whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Felt hats for girls and women; Berets; Girls' and

Women's Caps ( other than bathing) of any

material; Hats n.e.i.; Bonnets

per dozen

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(1) Hoods other than of felt

ad val.

For the purposes of this paragraph a hood means any unblocked form of any material (other than felt) woven or plaited throughout from the tip of the crown to the edge of the brim, also any unblooked form made of braid or similar material

joined together by hand with a concealed thread.

(2) Hat Forms of braid or similar material sewn

with a visible stitch, but not blooked or

further processed

per dozen

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Blankets and blanketing, woven from yarn wholly of cotton, viz. : -

(1) Blankets manufactured by the Jacquard

process

ad val,

(2) Other

ad val.

Floor coverings wholly of cotton , except

carpet felt undercarpet felt and those covered

by sub-item (8)

ad val.

208, 45 per cent.
350. 40 per cent.
458. 45 per cent. 40 per cent.
278. 40 per cent.
25 per cent. /. 25 per cent. A/. 15 per cent.

A/. See note at end of Part I.

95347 049-pt. 5- 8

A110

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number EX 118(A)( 2)
Ex 118(A)(2)
Ex 118(0) 119 (B)
120(D) (1)

Description of Products

Carpets, carpeting and carpet rugs , hand wovenj

carpota, loop pile or cut pile , bearing designs

which have been printed on to the warp threads

before weaving; floor and carriage mats and

matting of grass, rame or palm fibres (other

than coir) or combinations thereof

ad val.

Carpets, n.e.i. , carpeting, n.e, i, and floor
loths, n.e.i.; flow and carriage mats, n... of textile material, except coir; floor rugs and floor coverings, n.c.i., not being of rubber and not being furs or other skins or carpot felt andrearpet felt or carpet felt paper

Felt base floor coverings, having a similar

surface to linoleums

ad val.

Artiolcs of Coir, vis,:-
Mats and Matting , ineluding Cricket Matting ad val
ar per square yard whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Tablecloths handkerchiefs and scrviettes imported
in an unhesmod, impressed and unboxed condition , as prescribed by Departmental By-laws ·

Cotton; made from piooo goods containing a mixture of fibros in which cotton predominates (excepting pioco goods enumerated in Items 105(AA), (D) ( 1) and (F) ) -

(a) Unbleached, not being printed dyed or

coloured

per square yard

(b) Bleached, not being printed dyed or

coloured

per square yard

(0) Printed, dyed or coloured per square yard

NOTE: The Goverment of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make , amend or revoke By-laws relating to products addssible under Item 120(D) ( 1).

Rate of Duty
15 per cent. ...... 8/. 30 per cent, 35 per ocnt.
60 4.
24,

M. See note at end of Part I.

B/. Sce note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

All1

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

35

Australian Tariff Itom
Number Ex 120(7) Ex 120(F)
135
136 (0)(1 )
136(P)(1) (2)
Ex 137(A)(1) 138(4)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Quilts , viz, : - Marcella , honeycomb, alhambra,

grecian and dimity

ad val.

Printed cotton bedspreads, as prescribed by Departmental By- laws NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of
Australia shall be free to make , amend or revoke By-laws relating to printed cotton bcdspreads admissible undor Item Ex 120(F) .

Accoutrements , Buttons , Braid, and Lace , for Naval and Military Uniforms , as prescribed by Departmental By-laws
NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make , amend or revoke By- laws relating to products admissible under Item 135.

Iron and Steel ·

Angle , Rod other than Wire Rod in Coils , Tee,

Bar exceeding one eighth of an inch in

thickness and not being of fancy pattern;

Bar exceeding one eighth of an inch in

thickness of fancy pattern rolled direct from

the billet bar or rod and in the state in

which it leaves the rolls

per ton

Hoop , including galvanized , 12-gauge (Birmingham Sheet Gauge ) and thicker

ad val.

and per ton

Hoop n.c.i.

ad val and per ton

Aluminium Ingots

Antimony (known as star antimony)

per ton and ad val

25 per cent. ...... B/.
1006. 10 per cent.
700. 4. 10 per gent.
708, 1. ...... B/. £8.10s. 15 per cent./.

A. See note at end of Part I.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

A112

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 140
(c)
14.3A 244
(B )( 1 )
153(A) 154
(A) (B ) 155 (A)

3 @

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Copper, viz. : -

Angles, bars , pipes , plates , rods , sheets, strips , tees and tubes , not further manufactur-

ed than plated polished or decorated; wire

including stranded or twisted wire

per Ib.

and ad val.

subject to a reduction by an amount per ton calculated by multiplying the determined price of copper at the date of exportation of the goods by 0.55 (British Preferential Tariff and
Intermediate Tariff) , 0.6875 ( General Tariff).

For the purposes of this sub-item the determined price of copper shall be the weekly average, as determined by the Minister, of the London Motal Exchange quotations for one ton of Electrolytic Copper Wire Bara.

Ferro-manganese

Zino and Spelter , viz.:-
Sheet, not further manufactured than plated polished or decorated (a) For lithographic purposes
Of a thickness .005 inch and greater ad val.
Of a thickness less than .005 inch
(b) Other

Cast iron pipes , excepting cast iron soil and
rainwater pipes from 2 inches to 6 inches internal diameter both sizes inclusive per ton

Railway and Tramway Material, viz.:Rails weighing 50 lb. per yard and over per ton Rails weighing less than 50 lb. per yard per ton

Iron or Stecl Beams , Channels , Joists , Girders , Columns , Trough and Bridge Iron and Steel -
Not drilled or further manufactured per ton

6th 50 per cent.
...... B/.
15 per cont. Free B /.
678.6d. 4/. 808. 908. 908.

/ Sco note at end of Part I.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A113

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 157 Ex 159(A) Ex 159(A) 169(A)(1) Ex 169(A)(2) Ex 169(A)(2)
169(A) (3) 169(B) Ex 169(C)( 1)
169(D)
170(1)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Barbed Wire

per ton

1008.

Woven wire measuring over 120 holes to the lineal inoh

Fire, n.e.i.

ad val

Monoline type-composing machines

Free 15 per cent. /.
Free

Linotype, Monotype , and other Type-composing

Machines ne.i.

ad val.

Typewriters (including covers)

ad val

NOTE : Typewriters (including covers ) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation oustoms duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products, the produce of Qanada, by more than 10 per cent. ad valorem.

15 per cent. A/. 20 per cent.

Adding and Computing Machines and all

attachments

ad val

Cash Registers

ad val.

Newspaper printing machines known as "Duplex Tubular" printing from cylindrical stereo
plates as distinct from semi-cylindrical stereo plates; Roll Fed Combined Wrapper Printing and Addressing Machines; Combined Printing and Carton Cutting Machines; Printing Machines and Pressos, ne, i. , except Flat-bed Cylinder Printing Presses , Combined Tagmaking and Printing Machines and Proof Prosses using rolled paper
ad val.

10 per cent. A/. 10 per cent. /.
20 per cent. A/.

Rotary Web Printing Machines ( other than those

specified in sub-item ( C ) ) , weighing 25 tons or

less, printing from curved stercos or curved

electros, and designed to be fed from one or

two paper rolls each not more than 65 inches

wide; Web Printing Machines n.c.i. , weighing

25 tons or less , printing from flat type formes,

and designed to be fed from one paper roll not

more than 65 inches wide

ad val

Rotary and Percussive Rook Drills

30 per cent. 4/. ...... B/.

A/. See note at end of Part I.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

A114

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number
174
(M)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Machines , Machine Tools, and Appliances for use

in connexion therewith , viz.:-

Metal-working machines and appliances (not

including extra die-heads ) , viz.:-

(14) Exhausters, gas, motor driven, for iron

and steel production

ad val.

(22) Grinders, drill, pneumatic , of the pedestal type

(25) Lathes (a) Capstan or Turret (b) Chip flow, with automatic feeds ad val.

(a) Cock or plug forming

ad val.

(d) Duomatio , with hydraulic feed ad val.

(e) Facing and Boring, over 2 tons weight, combined or separate, without tail stooks or scrow
outting equipment

(f) For diamond tools , with hydraulic

feeds

ad val.

(8) Full Automatio

(h) High speed, low swing, for axle

work, fitted with Multiple

Tooling Systems

ad val

(1) Profile turning and copying, for bottle moulds and the like ad val

(k) Railway Wheel

ad val.

(1) Roll turning

ad val.

(a) Solely designed for cam shaft

turning

ad val.

(n) Solely designed for railway axles ad val

(0) Solely designed for oilgrooving ad val.

(P) Solely designed for crank pin

turning

ad val.

15 per cent. ...... c/.
15 per cent. 15 per cent. 15 per cent.
...... 0 . 15 per cent.
...... 0/.
15 per cent, 15 per cent. 15 per cent. 15 per cent. 15 per cent, 15 per cent. 15 per cent, 15 per cent.

c/. NOTE: The products provided for under the paragraphs of Item 174, against which the symbol C/. appears , shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 15 per cent. ad valorem.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A115

SCHIIDULB I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

174(M)(continued)

Metal-working machines and appliances, etc. (continued)

(25) Lathes (continued)

(a) Spinning, Turning and Planishing,

combined or separate, over

18-inch centres

ad val

(r) Tapmakers ' , with automatic relief

movements

ad val.

( ) Universal Relieving

ad val.

(u) Lathes (excepting the types with cone heads tooks ) known as sliding surfacing and screw-cutting or chasing, with or without moveable
tailstocks, and modifications of this type in which one or more of the functions usually performed by such lathes have been eliminated or varied: -

(1) With variable speed headstooks which are arranged with a belt that drives by its bevelled

edges against a V-sided pulley that converges and diverges and so alters the spindle

speeds

(2) With all geared headstocks , the current domestic value of

which, either in sterling or when converted to sterling, in

the country of origin exceeds

the Australian manufacturer's

list price in Australian

currency of the nearest

comparable Australian-mado

la the

ad val

(v) Other, excepting Lathes of the type loown as Sliding, Surfacing and Screw cutting or chasing, with or without moveable tailstocks, and modifications of this type in which one or more of the functions usually performed by such lathes have been eliminated or varied; Metal spinning Lathes and Brake Drum Truing Lathes

15 per cent. 15 per cent. 15 per cent.
GSDAG c/.
15 per cent.
0/.

c/. NOTE: The products provided for under the paragraphs of Item 174, against which the symbol C/. appears , shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation oustoms duties which exoeed the preferential duties on such products by more than 15 per cent, ad valorem.

A116

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

174(M) (continued)

Metal-working machines and appliances , etc. (continued)

(29) Milling machines

(34) Planing machines

(88) Drilling , Boring and Reaming Machines ,

combined or separate , with mechanical

feeds , with drilling capacity over

21 inches from the solid

ad val.

(89) Drilling Machines , horizontal

(90) Drilling Machines , portable , radial
(91) Drilling Machines , Radial, except those of girder type

(92) Drilling Machines , rail or bogey type ad val.

(93) Drilling Machines , vertical, equipped with feeds operated by mechanical as distinct from hand power, exceeding nine -sixteenths inch drilling capacity in mild steel or with maximum speed in excess of 5,000 r.p.me

(94) Drilling Machines , vertical , with infinitely variable speeds , having a maximum speed of 6,000 r.p.m. or over

(95) Drilling and Slotting Machines , for

piston rings

ad val.

(105) Grinding and Fluting Machines , combined ,

for use on flour mill rolls

ad val.

(106) Grinding Machines , other than the following types , viz.:Bearing Belt Grinders or finishing machines Benoh Centre Cutter Cutter Read

......C/. ...... C/.
15 per cent. ......C/. ...... c/. ......C/.
15 per cent.
...... c/.
......c/. 15 per cent. 15 per cent.

·/. NOTE: The products provided for under the paragraphs of Item 174, against which the symbol C/. appears , shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 15 per cent. ad valorem.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A117

SCHEDULE I - COLIMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I ( continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rato of Duty

174(M)(continued)

Metal-working machines and appliances, cto. (continued)
(106) Grinding Machines , etc. ( continued) Cutting off Cylinder Roborers or Grinders of the portable type Combination Cutting and Grinding Machines , electrically driven or driven by cloctric motors , for the reconditioning and renowing of automobile engine pistons and valves Diso Emory Wheel Stands Facing and Refacing, combined or separate, valve Floar Flexible
Gulleting Machines Hob, with hand foods Knife Knife Jointers Mortice Chain Oilstone Portable clectric Saw Swing Frame Tool Post Twist Dri12
Turning and Grinding, for semi-finished pistons Valve, and Plain, Cylindrical, Universal, Tool and Cuttor, Piston and Automobile Parts Grinders, with capacities of less than 30 inches between oentres, with ar without automatic feeds to the table of the mechanical type , but excluding such machines with hydraulic foods
(154) Shaping Machines , Gear
(155) Shaping Machines , power drivon

...... c/. ...... C/. ...... c/.

c/. NOTE: The products provided for under the paragraphs of Item 174, against which the symbol 0/. appears, shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential dutics on such products by more than 15 per cent. ad valorom,

A118

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

174(1)

Other machines and appliances , viz.: -

(36) Hand tools (excepting spray guns and grease

guns or lubricators ) , pneumatic , portable,

but not including snaps

0/.

Ex 176(F)(1) Ex 176(F ) ( 1 )

Air or Gas Compressors , n.e.i. , and Air or Gas

Exhausters, n.e.i.

ad val.

Metal-working machines , viz.:Drilling Machines , n.e.i .; Grinding Machines , n.e.i.; Lathes, n.e.i. }
Planing and Shaping Machines ( combined) , n.e.i. ad val.

424 per cent, 50 per cent,

Ex 176 (F ) ( 1 )

Wool Scouring and Washing Machines

ad val 40 per cent.

176(F)(2 )(a)

Refrigerators , mechanical , of the types used for

food storage, up to and including 10 cubic feet

gross internal capacity, and parts thereof , viz.:-

(1) Refrigerators including mechanical driving

units and apparatus for transmitting power

from such driving units to the driven

units

ad val.

(2) Parts (when not incorporated in complete refrigerators ) imported in an assembled or partly assembled condition , viz.:-

(b) Compressors (not forming part of sealed

or semi-scaled refrigerating units)-

(1) Single cylinder

ad val.

(2 ) Double cylinder

ad val.

(o) Evaporators (not forming part of scaled or semi-sealed refrigerating units) ad val.

( a) Sealed or semi -sealed refrigerating

units, including mechanical driving

units and apparatus for transmitting

power from such driving units to the

driven units

ad val.

(e) Other

ad val.

55 per cent,
55 per cent, 55 per cent. 55 per cent.
55 per cent, 55 per cent.

c/. NOTE: The products provided for under the paragraphs of Item 174, against which the symbol C/. appears , shall be exempt from ordinary mostfavoured-nation customs duties which exoced the preferential duties on such products by more than 15 per cent. ad valorem,

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30 , 1947

Al19

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 176(F)(2)(b)
176(F ) (2 )(0) 176(K) (2)

Description of Products

Refrigerating appliances and parts thereof imported in an assembled or partly assembled condition (other than refrigerators and parts thereof enumerated in sub-paragraph (a)); metal pressings for cabinets for refrigerating appliances ad val.

Parts ne.i. of refrigerating appliances ad val.

Meters n.e.i. , mechanically or electrically operated, for measuring gas air steam oil water or other fluids , including panels imported with such meters and including parts of such meters

imported separately or otherwise (but not including (1 ) meters or parts of meters sudtable for use in the retailing of petrol (11 ) positive

type water meters up to and including 3 inches in size and parts thereof excepting meters constructed for measuring hot water in a boiler house or engine house (iii ) inferential water meters of the turbine and disc types and parts thereof and (iv) inferential water meters of the compound or combination type and parts thereof); Gauges and controllers for water filtration plant and mechanisms for transmitting loss of head or rate of flow to such gauges Gauges (other than those of the type used on motor vehicles for indicating the amount of petrol in the tank of the motor vehicle) for indicating or recording liquid level in roservoirs canals rivers or

tanks: 00 and 002 Indicators and Rooorders including aspirators and filters for use thero-

with Regulating and controlling devices, automatic (other than those used in refrigerating) for regulating temperature humidity pressure vacum or rate of flow; Temperature masuring instruments whether indicating or recording or

combinations of both, apparatus for remote indication or recording of temperature measurements, and parts thereof imported separately or otherwise, using any of the following basie principles, viz.:- mcrcury in steel bulb type, gas filled bulb type, vapour bulb type ,

potentiometer thermocouple type, thermo-electric
pyrometer type, electrical resistance thermometer type, and bi-metallic strip type -

(a) As prescribed by Departmental By-laws ad val,

(b) Other than those prescribed by Departmental

By-Laws under sub-paragraph (a)

ad val.

Rate of Duty 55 per cent. 35 per cent.
20 per cent 20 per cent.

A120

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I ( continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 176(N)
(1)
(2) 177(B )
(1)

Description of Products

Air Compressors ( including Air Blowers ) of the reciprocating and rotary types, viz.:-

Of a capacity not exceeding 1,750 cubic feet of free air delivered per minute -

(a) Portable , in which the prime mover is an internal combustion engine diroot-coupled

to the compressor , including the engine

when imported therewith

ad val.

(b) Other

ad val.

Of a capacity exceeding 1,750 cubic feet of free air delivered per minute

Tractors and tractor parts (but not including winches or pneumatic rubber tyres and tubes, whether imported with the complete tractor or otherwise )
Tractors but not including the following when imported therewith, viz.:- tractor wheels and tractor wheel centres , for use with pneumatic tyrca ·
(a) As prescribed by Departmental By-laws ad val.
(b) Other than those prescribed by Departmental By-laws under sub-paragraph (a) , as prescribed by Departmental By-laws
NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make , amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Items 177 (B )( 1 )( a ) and 177(B) ( 1 )(b ) .
NOTE: The products provided for under Item 177(3 )( 1) (b ) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 12 per cent. ad valorem.

Rate of Duty
40 per cent. 42 per cent. ...... B/.
10 per cent.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A121

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 177(B ) (3)
(a)
(0)
Ex 178(E) 179(A)

Description of Products

Tractor Parts n.e.i.-
Engine Units ( not including storage batteries and sparking plugs ) and parts thereof: (1) As prescribed by Departmental By- laws
NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make , amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 177 (B ) ( 3 ) ( a ) ( 1 ) .

Other, but not including engine units and parts thereof
NOTE: The products provided for under Items
177 (B ) ( 3 ) ( a ) ( 1 ) and 177 ( B ) ( 3 ) ( c ) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 12 per cent. ad valorem.

Internal Combustion Engines of the type ordinarily used in Motor Vehicles ( other than
Motor Cycles ) and parts , n.c.i. , therefor ad val,

Electric Heating and Cooking Appliances -

(1) Stoves , ranges , ovens , cookers , grillers ,

boiling plates , boiling rings , and the like , including elements therofor whether

imported separately or forming part of a

complete appliance

ad val.

(2) Radiators and toasters

each or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(3) Kettles

each or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(4) Elements for radiators , toasters and

kettles

each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(5) N.E.I.

ad val.



Rate of Duty
.....
......
50 per cent.
45 per cent. 45.
50 per cent. 50 per cent.
ls. 3d. 50 per cent. 50 per cent.

A122

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE 1 - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

179(D)(1 )

Dynamo Electric Machines , viz.:-

Ex ( a )( 1 )(a ) Electric Motors under 1 horse-power when not

integral parts of machines

ad val.

Ex (o)(4)(a) Electric Motors under 1 horse-power when not

integral parts of machines

ad val.

Ex (a) 180
(D) (E)
(2) (3)
(4) (5)
(6)

Ê

Electric Motors under 1 horse-power when not

integral parts of machines

ad val.

Electrical and Gas Appliances , viz, : Pilament Lamps for lighting and heating per lb.

Wireless Receivers , parts thereof, and

Accessories therefor , viz.:~

Condensers, fixed mica

each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Artioles for tuning devices , viz.:-

(a) Dials, complete

per unit

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(b) Dial or Scale Assembly

per unit

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(o) Drives , ratio reducing

per unit

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Resistors , fixed

each

or ad val

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Rheostats , potentiometers , variable resistances , volume controls and tone controls of types

incorporated in wireless receivers

each

or ad val

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Sockets , valve

each

or ad val,

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Rate of Duty
40 per cent.
40 per cent,
40 per cent.
28.68.
4d. 50 per cent.
2s. 6d. 50 per cent.
9d. 50 per cent.
18.9d. 50 per cent.
ld 50 per cent.
64d. 50 per cent.
Hd. 50 per cent,

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A123

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

180(E )(continued ) Wireless Receivers , etc. (continued)

(7)

Transformers , audio and radio

each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(10)

Condensers , variable , of capacitics exceeding

.0001 microfarad, but not exceeding .001

microfarad -

With gang or drum control per each condenser contained therein or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Without gang or drum control

cach or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(11)

Condensers , variable, midget , of .0001 microfarad

capacity or less

each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(12)

Loudspeakers and Parts thereof: -

(a) Loudspeakers including transformers each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(b) Parts of loudspeakers imported other than

in complete loudspeakers , viz.:

(1) Field Coils

each or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

( 2 ) Field Coil Cores

each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(3) Field Coil Housings

each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(4) Cones with or without voice coils oach or ad val.
whichever rate returns the higher duty.

28.64. 50 per cent.
28.718 . 50 per cent.
28.74d. 50 per cent.
1s.3d 50 per ocnt.
10s . 50 per cent.
28.62. 50 per cent.
19. 50 per cent.
18.3d. 50 per cent.
ls . 5d. 50 per cent.

A124

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

180(E )( continued) Wireless Receivers , etc. (continued )

(12)

Loudspeakers , etc. (continued)

(b) Parts of Loudspeakers , etc. (continued )

(5) Cone Housings

each or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(6) N.E.I. , other than transformers ad val.
Provided however that in the case of
combinations of any of the parts provided for under Item 180( E ) ( 12 ) (b ) , duty shall be payable on such combinations as though the parts were imported separately.

(13)

Transformers , power

each or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(14)

Headphones; Parts n.c.i. of wireless receivers ,

other than cabinets

ad val.

Ex 180(F) 181 (A)( 1) Ex (A) ( 1 )
181(A)( 2)

Piezo-cleotrio quartz plates, bars and rods ad val.

Electrical Articles and Materials , viz, : ~
(a) Covered cable and covered wire , n.o.i.
(b) Measuring and recording instruments not elsewhere specified
NOTE: The products provided for under Item Fx 181(A ) ( 1 ) (b ) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 10 per cent. ad valorem.

Valves for wireless telegraphy and telephony

including rectifying valves

each

or ad val

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

Rate of Duty
18.9d. 50 per cent. 50 per cent.
12s. 6d, 50 per cent, 50 per cent. 30 per cent.
...... B/.
5s . 6d. 40 per cent.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A125

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA. Part I ( continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

181(continued) 181(AA)
Ex (1)
(2)

Electrical articles and Materials ( continued)

Alternating Current Watt-hour Meters ·

Two rate, two rate and three element combined ad val .

Other

each

181(B) (1)

(d) Weatherproof braided aerial cable , as prescribed by Departmental By-laws ad val .

NOTE : The Government of the Commonwealth of
Australia shall be free to make , amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 181 ( B) ( 1 ) ( a ) .

189 (A)

Arms , viz.:Double -barrelled Guns and Rifles bearing the British or other approved test mark ad val .

(B)

Single -barrellod Guns and Rifles bearing the

British or other approved test mark

NOTE : The products provided for under Item

189(B ) shall be exempt from ordinary mostfavoured-nation customs duties which exceed
the preferential duties on such products by more than 10 per cent , ad valorem.

(c)

Revolvers ; Pistols

ad val.

@@

(D)

Barrels or actions , other ·

(1) For double-barrelled Guns bearing the

British or other approved test mark ad val.

(2) For single-barrelled Guns bearing the British or other approved test mark ad val ,

197(B) (1)
215 (B) (1)
217

Butchers' knives; cooks' knives

Saws, viz.:Band saws

ad val.

Sprinklers (not being partly or wholly of gold or

silver) for perfume bottles

ad val.

Rate of Duty
10 per cent. lls .8d. i/n .
30 per cont.
10 per cent .
10 per cent. 10 per cent. N. 10 per cent . A/. ...... B/. 40 per cent . 15 per cent. /.

N. See note at end of Part I.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

95347 0-49-pt. 5-9

A126

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 219
(A)
(B) (c )
224 828 Ex (A)( 1 ) 229
(D) (1)
229(E) Ex 229(F )( 1 ) Ex 229(F )( 1)
229( F) ( 2 ) (3)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Tools of Trade for the use of artisans and mechanics and Tools in general use -

Screwing tools , viz.:- Dios taps and chasers

for use in machines or by hand; screwplates ;

atocks; tap wrenches

ad val.

Hand tools, wholly or principally of metal ,

n.c.i.

ad val.

Hand tools, as prescribed by Departmental By-laws NOTE : The Government of the Commonwealth of
Australia shall be free to make, amend or revoke By- laws rolating to products admissible under Item 219(C). Subject to this provision , the products provided for under this item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 15 per cent, ad valorem.

Graphite or plumbago

ad val.

Oils in bulk or otherwise , viz.:Turpentino

Oils in vessels exceeding one gallon Turpentine Substitutes · As prescribed by Departmental By-laws per gallon
NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make, amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 229 (D) ( 1) .

Lubricating (Mineral )

per gallon

Oiticica Oil

Tung Oil

Castor Linseed, incdible

per gallon per gallon

A/. See note at end of Part I.

45 per cent. 40 per cent.
......
15 per cent. Free ld. A/.
61d. Free Free
13. 9d. A/.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A127

SCHEDULE I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

229(continued) Oils in vessels , etc. ( continued)

Ex 229(G) 229(H ) ( 2)

Babassu Oil, edible , denatured as prescribed

by Departmental By- laws

per gallon

Olive Oil n.e.i,

per gallon

(3)
Ex 229(1 )
Ex 229(1) Ex 229(1)
229(J)

Olive Oil for use in the production of dried fruits or for other purposes , as prescribed by Departmental By-laws
NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make , amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 229 (H) ( 3) .

Coconut 011 , unrefined
NOTE: Coconut Oil, unrefined, provided for under Item 229( 1 ) , shall be exempt from duties in excess of 6d. per gallon ( or its equivalent ) above the rate of duty applicable to copra provided for under Item 45, on the date on which such coconut oil is entered for home consumption.

Palm Oil and Palm Kernel 011

per gallon

Petroleum Oils , n.e.i., not compounded --

Medicinal

Other colourless or pale straw bloomless

or nearly debloomed

per gallon

Refined Cod Liver Oil, not compounded per gallon

Rate of Duty
5d. 28. ...... B/.
......
6d. Freo
64, 60.

B/. Sec note at end of Part I.

A128

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I ( continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 231
(A )( 1 )
(B )( 1 ) (2)
Ex 231(E ) 231(G)(2)
231(1) 240(A)
Ex 241(B)
Ex 241(B)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Paints and Colours, viz.:-
London Purple , Paris Green , Ceramio Colours , Vandykes , Manganese , Vermilions , and Prepared Glazes for pottery, in dry colour form; Artists' Colours (except Liquid Drawing Inks)

Barytes, crude Barytes, ground Gas Carbon Black

per owt. per owt.

White Lead, dry or ground in oil

per ort. or ad val

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Ultramarine blue in powder form or in aqueous paste form

Tiles, viz.:- flooring and wall, including glazed, ceramic, mosaic, and enamelled per square yard or ad val. whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Chinaware parianware and poroelainware, n.e.i. ,

composed of a vitrified non-absorbent body

which is more or less translucent

ad val.

Other chinaware parianware and porcelainware , nal and earthenware brownware and stoneware,

ne.i., including glazed or enamelled fireclay

manufactures n.e.i. , and all kinds of porous

insulating blooks

ad val.

...... B/. ls .6d. 28.
Free 78.
25 per cent.
Free
49.60 40 per cent. y.
35 per cent.
45 per cent. .

A/. See note at end of Part I.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A129

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I ( continued)

(0)



Australian Tariff Item
Number 242
(B)
(D)
(8)
(P) 243(A) Ex 244(A) 244(C)

Description of Products

Glasa, viz.:Sheet, viz.:- Plain Clear
NOTE: The products provided for under Item 242(B) shall be exempt from ordinary mostfavoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 1s. 6d. per .100 square feet.

Sheet, viz.:- figured rolled, cathedral , milled rolled, rough cast and wired cast
per square foot or ad val.
whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Plate, polished and patent, in sheets not exceeding 25 square feet; opaque , manufactured by either the casting process or the twin roller process , having a polished finish on one or both sides , of types not elsewhere specified, in sheets not exceeding 25 square feet per 100 square feet

Plate, polished and patent, in sheets exceeding 25 square fect; opaque , manufactured by either the casting process or the twin roller process , having a polished finish on one or both sides , of types not elsewhere specified, in sheets exceeding 25 square feet per 100 square feet

Bent, Bevelled, Heraldic , Sand-blasted, Enamelled ,

Embossed, Etched, Silvered , Brilliant Cut;

Corners Cut , Bevelled, or Engraved; Prisms; and

all Glass framed with metal, n.e.i.

ad val.

Glass n.e.i.

Locket, Brooch and Watoh Glasses

ad val.

Lenses, edged, for spectacles , except bifocal

lensca

ad val.

Rate of Duty
24. 35 per cent.
73.64
158. 30 per cont.
B/. 10 per cent. 4 . 30 per cent.

N. See note at end of Part L. B/. See note at end of Part I.

A130

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 249(A)
(B ) 250(A)
(B)
Ex 250(c ) ( 1)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Mica, orude , in slab

ad val.

Mica and manufactures thereof, n.e.i. ad val.

Bottles flasks jars vials and tubes, n, e.i. , of glass earthenware stoneware or china, empty or containing goods not subject to an ad valorem duty and not classifiable under Item 408
ad val.

Articles of cut glass , including bottles decanters flasks and jars of cut glass empty or containing
goods not subject to an ad valorem duty and
lamps and lampware of cut glass , but not including artioles of etched or engraved glass , viz.:-

(1) Butter knives; cruct sets; cruct trays; jam spoons; mustards ; oil bottles the
oapacity of which does not cxcced 4 fluid ounces ; pepper shakers ; salt shakers; serviette rings; sugar shakers;
vinegar decanters the capacity of which does not exceed 4 fluid ounces ad val.

(2 ) Other

ad val.

For the purposes of Item 250(B ) the term "out glass" is defined as covering glassware in which any of the cut patterns or designs have been subjected to any process designed to produce a polished finish.

Blown glass blanks, uncut and unpolished For use in the manufacture of articles of out

glassware as enumerated in Itcm 250 (B ) ( 1 ) , as

prescribed by Departmental By-laws

ad val.

20 per cent, N. 30 per cent. 15 per cent.
20 per cent. 50 per cent.
15 per cent.

A/. See note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A131

SCHEDULE I - COLLIONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I ( continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number Ex 250(C)( 1 )
250(c)(2) 250(F)
254(B)
254(C) 255(A) Ex 262(B)(2) 270

Description of Products

Blown glass blanks , uncut and unpolished For use in the manufacture of other articles of

out glassware , as prescribed by Departmental

By- laws

ad val.

NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of
Australia shall be free to make, amend or revoke By- laws relating to products admissible under Item 250( C) ( 1 ) .

Glassware n.e.i.

ad val.

Artioles of glass including articles of etched or engraved glass (but not including articles covered by sub- items (B ) and (E ) ) , viz.:Dishes, tumblers , salads , bowls other than
lightingware , nappies , jugs , candlesticks , butters, battery jars or cells , vases , trays , comports , flowerblocks , mugs, sundaes, goblets , measures including medicine measures ad val.
or per dozen pieces whichever rate returns the higher duty.
Dextrine
NOTE: The product provided for under Item 254(B) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such product by more than 15 per ocnt. ad valorem,

Gum copal , gun damar , sticklac and seedlac; balata, gutta peroha and Jelutong, n.e.i.

Glue in dry form

per lb. or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Granite unwrought , including rough or scabbled

from the pick

ad val.

Fly Papers, chemical and sticky

ad val.

Rate of Duty
20 per cent.
40 per cent.
35 per cent. 10d.
Free 30.
35 per cent. 10 per cent. 25 per cent. 4.

M. See note at end of Part I.

A132

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 281
(B)(1)
281(B )( 2 ) Ex 281(J)
281 Ex (L)(1)
Ex (L)(2)
281(0)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Drugs and Chemicals , viz.: Sulphate of Magnesia (Epsom Salts) ·

(a) In packages not exceeding seven pounds

net weight

per lb.

(b) N.E.I.

ad val.

(a) Sulphate of soda

ad val.

(b) Hyposulphite of soda , hypochlorite of soda,

carbonate of magnesia n.c.i.

ad val.

Drugs, crude , not cut crushed or powdered and not packed for retail sale , viz.:Buchu Leaves, Aloes (dried vegetable juice)

Drugs and Chemicals , viz.:-

When not packed for retail sale , viz, : -

Balsam of Copahybaj Emetine; Iodine , crude; Timbo Powder .

Morphia and Morphia Salts; Strychnine

and Strychnine Salts

ad val.

Nitrate of Soda of a purity greater than 99 per cent. calculated on a moisture

free basis

ad val.

Caffeine and Theobromine ; Chlorate of Sodium

When packed for retail sale , viz.:Morphia and Morphia Salts; Strychnine
and Strychnine Salts Caffeine

ad val.

NOTE: Caffeine , provided for under Item k 281(L) ( 2) , shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exoced the preferential duties on such
Caffeine by more than 15 per cent. ad valorem

Acetyl-Salicylic Acid

ad val.

14. 35 per cent. 35 per cent. 35 per cent.
Free
Free 10 per cent. 15 por ocnt.
...... B/. 20 por pont.
......
25 per cent.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A133

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I ( continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number Ex 287
Ex 287 Ex 287
290(c)
291(H)

Description of Products

Essential Oils , non-spirituous , viz.:Bergamot , Bitter Orange , Geranium, Jasmine , Lavender , Lemongrass , Neroli , Patchouli , Rosc , Rosewood, Vetiver and Ylang-ylang
NOTE: The products provided for under Item Ex 287 shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 5 per cent, ad valorem,

Essential Oils , non- spirituous , viz.:-

Citronella

ad val.

Essential Oils , non-spirituous , n.c.i. , but not including Bergamot , Bitter Ornage , Citronella, Geranium, Jasmine , Lavender , Lemongrass , Noroli , Patchouli , Rose, Rosewood, Vetiver and Ylang-ylang

(1) Perfumery n.c.i .; Petroleum jelly n.e.i. ad val.

(2) Toilet preparations (perfumed or not ) n.e.i. ad val.
with an additional duty if spirituous as follows-

If containing not more than 20 per cent,

of proof spirit

per gallon

And for every additional 20 per cent , ar

fraction thereof of proof spirit

per gallon

Timber, undressed, n.e.i. , viz.:Other -
(1) In sizos of 12 inches x 6 inches ( or its equivalent) and over per 100 super. fcct

(2 ) In sizes of 7 inches x 22 inches (or its

equivalent ) and upwards, and less than

12 inches x 6 inches (or its

equivalent )

per 100 super . feet

(3) In sizes less than 7 inches x 24 inches (or its equivalent) per 100 super. feet

B/. See note at end of Part I.

Rate of Duty
...
15 per cent.
...... B/. 50 per cent . 50 per cent.
68. 68. 78. 108. 138.

A134

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 291(1)(1)
291(J) 291(x)
293(4)
294(4) (B) (c)

Description of Products

Timber, undressed , n.c.i. , in sizes not less than 4 inches in width and not less than 3 inches in thickness for the manufacture of boxes, as prescribed by Departmental By-Laws
per 100 supor. feet
NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make , amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 291 ( 1 ) (1) .

Timber, for making boxes , being cut to size , and dressed or partly dressed per 100 super. feet
Fonecrs (1) The value for duty of which does not
exceed 258. per 100 square feet ad val.
(2) The value for duty of which exocods 258. per 100 square feet

Timber, undressed, in sizes less than

7 fect 6 inches x 10 inches x 2 inches for

use in the manufacture of Doors, as proscribed

by Departmental By- laws

per 100 super, foot

NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make, amend or revoke By-Laws relating to products admissible under Item 293(A).

Staves, undressed , n.e.i.

per 100

Staves, dressed or partly dressed, but not

shaped

per 100

Staves, undressed, as prescribed by Departmental By- laws

Rate of Duty
La. N.
158. 35 per cent,
B/. 5a. /.
98. 128 Free



A/. See note at end of Part I.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A135

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

(0)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 309
(B)
(D) Ex 310(A)
320(8)
Ex 311 372(A) 314

Description of Products

Fancy Goods , viz.:Card Cases, Hatpins , Matchboxes , Serviette Rings and Clips, Sovereign Purses ,n.e.i.; Button Hooks , Glove Stretchers , Shoe Horns and Lifts, Thimbles , Ivory and other ornamental figures, Feather Dusters; Beads strung or
unstrung and Necklets n.e.i. , except those made of pearls cultured pearls precious stones precious metals or imitation precious metals
ad val,

Articles for personal wear , not including articles partly or wholly of gold silver or other precious metal or imitations thereof or partly or wholly of pearls ar precious stones or imitations thereof , viz.:- Brooches,
Bangles, Studs , Sleeve Links and Tie Clips ad val.

N.E.I.

ad val.

Cricket bats; oricket bat blades; cricket balls ad val

Toys

ad val.

Precious stones, unsct, viz.:Agate, Amazonite , Amethyst , Aquamarine , Citrine , Emerald , Kunzite , Onyx, Topaz and Tourmaline

Precious stones, unset, viz.:Unout Jewellery Diamonds

Jewellery, Viz,: - Beads; Catches and Joints

for Pina; Clasps n. c.i .; Points and Brooch

Pins ne.i.

ad val.

Jewellery, commonly known as rolled gold; Jewellery under 9-carat; Imitation Jewellery
ad val.

Rate of Duty
50 per cent.
50 por ocnt. 50 per cent. 50 per cent. 50 per cent.
Free 35 per cent. . 50 per cent.

A/. See note at end of Part I.

A136

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I- COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 315
316(B) Ex 318(A) (3)
324 (A)
328
Ex 329 Ex 329
333(A) (2)

Description of Products

Jewellery, n.e.i. , including Bolt and Split Rings;

Swivels; Ear Wires; Bars and Stampings used in

manufacture of jewellery; Medals and Medallions

of gold or silver; Ornaments of gold or silver

for attire other than Buckles , Badges , Clasps ,

Slides and Buttons; Combined Bracelets and

Watches; Gold or Silver Safety Pins; Gold or

Silver Bags and Purses; Lace , Braid, and Cord,

and all articles n.e.i. , partly or wholly made

of gold or silver

ad val.

Imitation reconstructed and synthetic precious stones and pearls , unset (not being beads)

Opera Field and Marine Glasses

ad val.

Leather, viz.:Chamois Leather

ad val

Goloshes , rubber sand boots and shoes and

plimsolls

per pair or ad val

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Boots and Shoes n.c.i. - Women's and Children's ad val

Boots and Shocs (other than Women's and

Children's Boots and Shoes ) , n.e.i.; Slippers ,

Clogs, Pattens, and other footwear (of any

material ) , n.c.i .; cork, leather, or other

socks or solca n.e.i.

ad val.

Pneumatic rubber tyres and tubes therefor, valved

or unvalved, viz.:-

Covers weighing each 2 lb. or less and tubes

weighing each 1 lb. or less

per lb.

or ad val

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Rate of Duty
50 per cent. Free
10 per cent. A. 25 per cent.
28.24. 35 per cent. 45 per cent.
50 per cent. 15.
324 per cent,

A. See note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A137

SCHEDULE I COMMONWMALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 334
(c)(1)
(D)(2) 334(P)
(1) (2)
334(G)(1)

Description of Products
Paper, viz.:News-printing , not glazed mill-glazed or coated (a ) In rolls not less than 10 inches in width
(b) In sheets not less than 20 inches by 25 inches or its equivalent
Tissue, and tissue cap paper, and paper for paper patterns , in sheets or rolls , weight not to exceed 9 lb. for 480 sheets 20 inches by 30 inches
Irrespective of size or shape but not ruled or printed in any way, viz.:Coated printing paper; glazed imitation
parchment; printing paper n.e.i .; writing and typewriting paper not including duplicating paper In rolls less than 13 inches in width; in
sheets less than 21 inches in length or less than 16 inches in width
In rolls not less than 13 inches in width; in shects not less than 21 inches in length and not less than 16½ inches in width -
( ) As prescribed by Departmental By- lawS
(b) Other than paper prescribed by Departmental By- laws under subparagraph (a )
(a) Wrapping , other than wrapping paper enumcrated in sub-paragraphs (G)( 1 ) (b) and (G ) ( 1o), of all colours (glazed, unglazed , or millglazed), browns , caps not elsewhere specified, casings , sealings , nature or ochre browns , sulphites , sugars, and all other bag papers , candle carton paper; cartridge paper (other than offset and drawing ); paper felt and carpet felt paper irrespective of weight
(b) Greaseproof wrapping and imitation greaseproof wrapping

B/. See note at end of Part I.

Rate of Duty ...... B/. ...... B/.
B/.
B/. B/. ...... B/.
.... B/. ...... B/.

A138

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

334(continued) Paper (continued)

334(G) ( 2)

Fruit Wrapping, as prescribed by Departmental By-Laws

334(0)

Strawpaper, Strawboard other than corrugated,

and Boards n.e.i. , of which the free on board

price per ton is , or is the equivalent of,

in sterling: -

(1) Not more than £7

per ton

(2) More than £7 but not more than £17 per ton

and for each £l or part thereof by which
the free on board price exceeds £7 sterling or the equivalent of £7 sterling
per ton

334(R) 334(x)

Millboards
Cigarette tubes, paper and papers For each 60 cigarette tubes For each 60 cigarette papers or the equivalent
of 60 cigarette papers

Ex 334(X)

Paper, tissue (not gumed) for use in the manufacture of cigarette papers
NOTE : Paper, tissue (not gumed) for use in the manufacture of cigarette papers , provided for under Item Ex 334(X ) , shall, when admissible under Departmental By- law, be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation oustoms duties which excced the preferential duties on such products by more than 7 per cent, ad valorem. The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to
make , amend or revoke By-laws relating to paper , tissue (not gummed ) for use in the manufacture of cigarette papers.

350

Balls for Cycle Bearings

Rate of Duty ...... B/.
£3.58. N. £3.58. A/. 98,6d. Free ..... B/. ... B/. ......
B/.

A/. See note at end of Part I.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A139

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 351(A)
Ex 351(B)(2) L 351(B)(2)
x 354(B) 358(A)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Cycle Motor Cycle and Side Car parts n,e, i, (exoopt of leather or rubber) , including Steel Bars for the manufacture of Rims , Ball Heads not permanently joined and parts thereof plated or unplated, Bottom Brackets including Bracket Shells and plated or unplated Axles Cups Cranks Cotter and Locking Pins Lubricators and Chain Wheels, Hubs including Sprocket Wheels Look Rings and Free Wheel Clutches, Lugs, Fork Ends , Bridges, Nipples , Spokes , Spoke Washers , Chains , Pedals and metal parts thereof, as prescribed
by Departmental By-laws

Cyclometers ; valves for pneumatic tyres other than valves of the rubber sleeve type ad val.
Speedometers ; valves of the rubber sleeve type for pneumatio tyres
NOTE: Speedometers and Valves of the rubber sleeve type ( for pneumatic tyres), provided for under Item Ex 351 ( B ) ( 2 ) , shall be exempt from ordinery most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential dutics on such products by more than 15 per cent. ad valorem.

Motor Cycles having piston displacement of not less than 250 cubic centimetres and frames
therefor, whether partly or wholly finished, but not including Rubber Tyres or Tubes

Aeroplanes, and other Aircraft including

Balloons and Parachutes

ad val.

...... B/ 10 per cent. /. .....
Free 10 per cent,

4 . See note at end of Part I.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

A140

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I ( continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

358(B)

Parts and Materials , used in the manufacture or repair of Aeroplanes and other Aircraft, as prescribed by Departmental By- laws
NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make, amond or revoke By- Laws relating to products admissible under Itom 358(B ). Subject to this provision, the products provided for under this item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation customs duties which exceed the
preferential duties on such products by more than 15 per cent. ad valorem.

359 (D)

Vehicle Parts , viz.:Parts of vehicles with self-contained power

propelled by patrol , steam, electricity, oil,

gas , or alcohol , n.e.i. , whether incorporated

in the complete vehiole or separate, viz.:-

(1) Single-seated Bodies

each

(2 ) Double-seated Bodies

each

(3) Bodies with fixed or movable canopy tops ,

e.g. , Landaulette , Limousine , Taxi -cab,

and similar types , and n.c.i.

each

or ad val

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(4) Chassis, including lamps but not including
Rubber Tyres and Tubes , Storage Batteries, Shock Absorbers (excepting Steering
Dampers ), Bumper Bars , Radiator Assemblies, Sparking Plugs and Springs -

(a ) Unassembled, viz.:- Car , and Car type capable of use for commercial vehicles

NOTE: The products provided for under Item 359(D) (4 ) ( a ) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs dutics which exceed the
preferential duties on such products , the produce of Canada, by more than 2d. per lb. and shall be exempt from the additional duty of .7d. per lb.



Rate of Duty ......
£60 £95 60 per cent.
......

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A141

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

359(D)(continued)
359(E) (1)

Parts of vehicles , etc. (continued)
(4) Chassis , etc. (continued)
(b) Unassembled , viz.:- Truck Omnibus or other commercial vehicle
NOTE: The products provided for under Item 359(D ) (4) (b ) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products , the produce of Canada, by more than 1d. per Ib. and shall be exempt from the additional duty of .74. per lb.

(0) Assembled
NOTE: The products provided for under Item 359(D) (4 ) ( a ) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential dutics on such products , the produoc af Canada, by more than 2d. per lb. and shall be exempt from the additional duty of .7d. per lb.
Provided that for the purposes of sub-paragraphs ( a) and (b ) the classification shall be as determined by the Minister and the Ministor's decision shall be final.
The word "Bodics" in paragraphs (1) , (2) , and ( 3 ) of this sub-item includes Dashboards , Footboards , and Mudguards, when imported with bodies of which they form a part.

Parts of Bodies cnumerated in paragraphs (1 ) , ( 2 ) and (3) of sub-item ( D) , viz.:-

Pressed metal panels , not fabricated beyond

trimming of edges --

(a ) For cingle-seated bodies

per Ib.

(b) For double-seated bodies

per lb.

For bodies with fixed or movable canopy

tops and bodies n.e.i.

per lb,

Rate of Duty ......
18. 18. 18.

95347 0-49- pt. 5-10

A142

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 359(F) ( 1) 359(P ) ( 3 )
359(F)(4)
359(P)(5) 359(F ) (6) 359(P) (7) 359(F)(8) 359(P)(9) 359(F)( 10)

Description of Products

Vehicle Parts n.e.i. , including Axles n.c.i.,

Springs n.e.i. , Hoods , Wheels ne.i. , and

Bodies ne.i.

ad val.

Gears (whether imported separately or incorporat-

ed in or forming part of any goods classifiable

under Tariff Item 359(D ) ( 4 ) except when

imported with motor vehicles or motor vehicle

chassis as original equipment ) for vehicles with

self-contained power excepting motor eyoles and

vehicles for railways and tramways , viz.:-

Crown wheels and pinions , transmission gears,

differential gears , worms and worm wheels,

internal tooth gears , jack shaft pinions and

flywheel starter bands

ad val.

and per Ib.

Motor Vehicle Parts, viz. Shackle Bolts Pins

and Assemblica; Spring Hangers ; King Pins;

Tie Rod Pins; Tic Rod Ball Pins; Tie Rod

Ball Studs

per Ib. or ad val

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Handlos of all types for motor car doors and for

motor car window regulators

each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Devices for catching or fastening doors of

motor vehicles , excluding handles

ad val.

Window Regulators for Motor Cars , excluding

handles

cach

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Wind Screen Wipers

each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Axle Shafts and Propellor Shafts for motor

vehicles

per Ib.

or ad val

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

U-Bolts for motor vehioles

ad val.

Rate of Duty
50 per cent.
4 per cent. 28.
18. 30 per cent.
6d 40 per cent,
40 per cent. 18.6d.
40 per cent. 58.
35 per cent.
7d. 40 per cent. 35 per cent,

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A143

SCHEDULE I COMLIONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 359(G)
(1)
359(G) (2) 364 366(B )
380(B) 381
(A) Ex 381(B)
381(c)

Description of Products

Vehicle Parts, whether imported separately or

incorporated in or forming part of any goods covered by sub-item (D ) of Item 359, viz. : -

Springs for suspension purposes for motor

vehicle chassis , viz.:-

(a ) Coil springs

per lb.

ar ad val

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(b) Other

per lb. or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Bumper Bars for motor vehicles

ad val.

Organs, Pipe

ad val.

Carillons and Bells , including fittings therefor

but not including structural iron or steel, as

prescribed by Departmental By-laws

ad val

NOTE : The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make , amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 366(B ).

Vacuum Cleaners , viz.:(2) Other

Brushware and materials therefortBristles ne.i .; Animal hair n.e.i.

Black China bristles (when boiled, baked or

straightened)

ad val.

Brushes of the type ordinarily used for brushwork in schools; artists ' brushes (including writers and liners ) except of hog hair; handpicces for artists ' air brushes

Rate of Duty
8d. 50 per cent.
40. 50 per cent, 40 per cent. 30 per cent. 10 par pent. 4.
...... B/. Froe
30 per cent.
B/.

A/. See note at end of Part I.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

A144

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

381(continued) Brushware, etc. ( continued)

381(D)(1) :

Hair and cloth brushes

per dozen or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(2)

Tooth, scrubbing, paint and varnish brushes

per dozen

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(3)

Nail Brushes

per dozen

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Ex 382

Cameras, not including tripods

384(A)(1)

Photographic and X-ray dry plates and flat
films, sensitized, not including photographic plates enumerated in sub-item (B )
per square foot or ad val
whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(2)

Photographic sensitized films n.e.i.

per square foot

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(3)
389(B) 392
(c) (G)

Photographic sensitized papers and cards also linen and other sensitized materials , n.e.i.;

postcards (sensitized with or without

letterpress )

per square foot

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Fish-hooks

ad val.

Yarns : Woollen or containing wool

per lb. and ad val.

Artificial Silk

Rate of Duty
68.6d. 40 per cent.
38.6d. 40 per cent.
ls.94. 40 per cent.
Free
60 30 per cent.
740 30 per cent.
ld. 30 per cent. 15 per ocnt.
10d. 20 per cent. A/.
...... B/.

A. See note at end of Part I.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30 , 1947

A145

SCHEDULE I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

393(A)

Crochet , Knitting , Mercerised, and Embroidery Cottons, put up for household purposes
NOTE: The products provided for under Item 393(A) shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which
exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 15 per cent. ad valorem.

......

357

397 (A)
(B) Ex (1)

Explosives , viz.:Cartridges n.e.i. (1) Metallic rimfire
(2) Other

ad val . ad val

Fireworks , viz.:-

Fireworks of the type known as Chinese

crackers

ad val

30 per cent. A. 30 per cent. A/.
35 per cent. A/

Ex 403(c)

Kanures: -

Nitrate of Soda of a purity not greater than

99 per cent . caloulated on a moisture free

basis

Bioalcio Phosphates

Potassium and Sodium Nitrate in combination

Rock Phosphate

Free

Ex 410(A)

Tapestries principally of wool , made entirely

by hand, numbered and signed by the maker

Free

413(B) Ex 4190)
428
429

Pipes, smoking, n.e.1.

Elastic Gum Woven Catheters

ad val

Wattle Bark
NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia reserves the right to review, 3 years from the date of entry into force of this Agreement , the rate of duty provided for under Item 428.

Wattle Bark Tanning Extract

ad val

NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of

Australia reserves the right to review, 3 years from the date of entry into foroe

of this Agreement , the rate of duty provided for under Item 429.

B/. 20 per cent.
Free
10 per cent.

A/. See note at end of Part I.

B/. See note at end of Part I.

A146

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I · OCMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 432
(B) (0)
439 (A) (B)
443

30

@@

Description of Products

Raw Cotton Other

per lb.

As prescribed by Departmental By-laws
NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make, amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 432(C).

Felspar As prescribed by Departmental By-laws N.E. L.

per ton

Synthetic fibres in short lengths ( sometimes known as " staple fibre" ) produced from substances having a cellulose or oasein base, suitable for spinning purposes, including such fibres in the form of sliver or tops

Rate of Duty 1d. Free
Free 208. N.
B/.

Asbestos, crude Coir Fibre
Ferrous Alloys not provided for in the Schedule to the Australian Customs Tariff 1933-1939
Herva (Yerba) Mate when not put up for retail sale
Raw Silk Unout Industrial Diamonda

Free
B. Free Free

A. See note at end of Part I.

B. See note at end of Part I.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A147

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (concluded)

N. Wherever the symbol A/, appears opposite an Item in Part I of Schedule I in the colum
headed "Rate of Duty" , the preferential rate of ordinary customs duty shall, for purposes of sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 3 of Artiole I of this Agreement , be taken to be the preferential rate in force on
15th October, 1946.

NOTE:

B/. In the case of products provided for under Items in Part I of this Schedule against which the symbol B/. appears in the colum headed "Rate of Duty" and no rate of duty is shown in that colum, the contractual obligation of the Commonwealth of Australia shall, subject to the general provisions of this Agreement, be deemed in each such case to be only the exemption of such
products from primage duty.

GENERAL NOTE:

The products described in Part I of Schedule I of this Agreement shall on their importation into the Commonwealth of Australia be exempt from primage duty.

A148

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA

Australian Tariff Item
Number 3.
(4) (c)
(D)
(3)

Part II Preferential Tariff
NOTE. Rates of duty appearing in Part II , against which an asterisk in parenthesis - (*) - appears , are scheduled for the purpose of establishing the
maximum margin of preference permissible in accordanoe with sub-paragraph (a ) of paragraph 3 of Artiole 1 of this Agreement, and the inclusion of any such rate in Part II is not to be regarded as binding the preferential rate in respect of any product so scheduled.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Spirits, and spirituous liquors, n.e.i.:Brandy -

(1 ) When not exceeding the strength of proof per gallon

(2) When exceeding the strength of proof per proof gallon

Gin, distilled wholly from barley malt, grain,

grape wine or fruit, and certified in the pre-

scribed form by the competent Government official

in the country of production to be gin distilled

wholly from fruit

barley malt,

grain,

grape wine

or

(1) When not exceeding the strength of proof per gallon

(2) Then exceeding the strength of proof per proof gallon

Rum , pure, distilled wholly from sugar, sugar syrup, molasses, or the refuse of sugar cane, by a pot still or similar process at a strength not exceeding 45 per cent. ever proof and certified in the prescribed form by the competent Government official in the oountry of production to be pure rum distilled wholly from sugar, sugar syrup, molasses, or the refuse of sugar cane, under the oonditions specified -
(1) When not aweeding the strength of proof per gallon
(2) When exceeding the strength of proof per proof gallon
Blended Rum , distilled wholly from sugar, sugar
syrup, molasses, or the refuse of sugar cane, containing not less than 25 per cent. of pure spirit which has been separately distilled from sugar, sugar syrup, molasses, or the refuse of sugar cane, by a pot-still or similar process at a strength not exceeding 45 per cent. over proof and certified in the prescribed form by the campetent Government official in the country of production to be rum distilled wholly from sugar, syrup, Lolasses , or the refuse of sugar ca under the conditions specified and so blended -ne,
(1) Thon not exceeding the strength of proof per gallon
(2) When exceeding the strength of proof per proof gallon

578.6d. ( * ) 578.6d. (* )
648.6d. (*) 645.6d. ( * )
628.6d. (*) 628.6d. ( *)
638.6d. (*) 638.6d. (*)

(*) See not at hoad of Part II.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A149

SCHEDULE I- COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

#  8

Australian Tariff Item
Number 17(A) Ex 43(B) Ex 43(B)
46 50 52 54(A)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Aerated or mineral waters , vize : - Contrexeville, Evian, Perrier, St. Galmier, Vals and Vittel
ad val.

5 per cent. (* )

Coffee, roasted, or ground ; in liquid form; or

mixed with milk or any substance other than

chicory

per lb.

64.

Chicory, other than raw and kiln dried ; prepara-

tions containing ahicory

per lb.

78.

NOTE :

Coffee, roasted, or ground; in liquid f ar mixed with milk or other substanceorm ; ,pro-
vided for under Item 43( B) , the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary oustoms duties in excess of 6d, per lb.

Confectionery, Cocoa and Chocolate, viz. :(B)(2) Cocoa mass paste or slab, sweetened
per lb. or ad val.
whichever rate returns the higher duty.

21. 15 per cent.(*)

Egg albumen, dry Eggs, in shell

per lb. per dozen

18.90% (*) 3d (*)

Fruits, Fresh, viz.:(A) Bananas

per cental

28.1d. (*)

Fruits and Vegetables , n.e.i. , including Ginger,
n.e.i. (preserved in liquid, or partly preserved, or pulped) · (1) Quarter-pints and smaller sizes per dozen

(2) Half-pints and over quarter-pints per dosen

(3) Pints and over half-pints

per dozen

(4) Quarts and over pints

per dozen

(5) Exeeding a quart

per gallon

NOTE : The products provided for under Items

54(A) (1 ) to 54( A) ( 5) , the produce of New

Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary

oustams duties in excess of 35 per cent.

ad valorem,

110. (*)
1.101d. (*) 30.90 (*) 78.60 (*) 28.3d. (*)

(*) See note at head of Part II.

A150

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

54(C)
74 76 78
82

Petits Pois and mushrooms , preserved in liquid, or
partly preserved , or pulped (1) Quarter-pints and smaller sizes per dosen

(2 ) Half-pints and over quarter-pints per dozen

(3) Pints and over half-pints

per dozen

(4) Quarts and over pints

per dozen

NOTE : The products provided for under Item 54(C) ,

the produce of New Zealand, shall be

exempt from ordinary customs duties in

excess of 35 per cent, ad valorem,

Meats, Poultry, Game and Soup , viz , :Ex (B) Goose and duck Foie Gras in a natural form;
Pate de Foie Gras ; creme , mousse, purce of

Foie Gras ; lark pates

ad val.

kustard, including French Mustard

per lb.

Nuts, Edible, viz.:(I) Walnuts, viz.:(1 ) Unsholled

per lb.

(2) Kernels

per lb,

NOTE : The products provided for under Item 78(1 ) ,

the produce of the Territory of Papua-New

Guinea, shall be exempt from duty.

Pickles, Sauces, Chutney, 0lives, and Capers (H) Curry, manufactured, whether paste or powder per lb.

Rate of Duty
11d. (*) 18.102d.( * ) 38.9d. (*) 78.6d. ( * )
20 per cent, (* ) 20. (*) 17. ( * ) 3d. (*)
2d. (*)



96 Ex (A)(1 )

So Toilet, Fancy, or Medicated

per lb.

whichever

rate

returns

the

or ad val. higher duty.

(B) N.E.I.; soap substitutes and compounded

detergents for washing and cleansing pur-

poses, not including saponaceous disin-

fectants

ad val .

NOTE : The products provided for under Item 94,

the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in
excess of 20 per cent, ad valorem,

Spices Unground, viz.:- Cinnamon

(*) See note at head of Part II.

4d. 10 per cent. (* ) 10 per cent.
Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A151

SCHEDULE - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA PART II ( Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Mamber 105
(A)(1 )(D)
105(A)(1)(a)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Piece Goods, viz. : Ootton piece goods and piece goods containing a mixture of fibres in which cotton predominates, weighing more than 4 ounces per square yard but Less than 18 ounces per square yard, of types which either as imported or when further processed are principally used for manufacture into men's or boys' overcoats (other than dustooats) ooats vests trousers knickers ( not being under-
wear) aprons or overalls, ( excepting piece goods emmerated in sub-items (AA) and (F) and piece goods ordinarily used as linings or interlinings)-
per lb.
and ad val,

id. 30 per cent.

Ootton piece goods and piece goods containing a

mixture of fibres in which ootton predominates,

of a type which would otherwise be classified

under sub-item () ( 1 ) (b), as prescribed by De-

partmental By-laws, viz.:- for use in the manu-

facture of shirts; for use as pookstings in the

manufacture of outer olothing; undyed, whether

bleached or unbleached, for use in the manufaoture of leathercloth rubbercloth and other

waterproofed oloth; undyed sheetings, whether

bleached or unbleached, for use in the undyed

state; for use in the manufacture of other goods not specified in sub-item (A) ( 1 )(b) ·

(1 ) Unbleached, not being printed dyed or

coloured

per square yard

or ad val,

whichever rate returns the lower duty.

(2) Meached, not being printed dyed ar

coloured

per square yard

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the lower duty.

(3) Printed, dyed or coloured per square yard or ad val.
whichever rate returns the lower duty. NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of
Australia shall be free to make, amend or revoks By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 105(A)(1 ) (a).

Hd 5 per cent.
the 5 per cent.
the 5 per cent.

A152

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT..

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

105 (continued) Piece Goods (continued).

105(M )

Piece Goods , Knitted or Look-stitched, in tubular

form or otherwise (except piece goods enumerated

in Idam 208(D) ( 2)) of any material exept when

wholly of wool -

(1) For the manufacture of goods other than

apparel, as prescribed by Departmental By laws

(2) Other · (a) Wholly of artificial silk

per lb. or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

NOTE: The products provided for under Item 105(AA) ( 2)(a), the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from duty.

(b) Not being wholly of artificial silk per lb.
or ad val. whichever rate returns the higher duty.

NOTE : The products provided for under Item 1.05(AA) ( 2)(b) , the produce of New Zealand,

shall, except when containing wool, be exempt from duty.

105(B)

Cotton piece goods and piece goods containing a mixture of fibres in which cotton predominates

(excepting piece goods enumerated in sub-items

(AA) , (D)(1 ) and (F)), defined for cutting up for the manufacture of hemmed or hemstitched oosies

doyleys handkerchiefs pillow-shams serviettes table-centres table-cloths table-oovers table-

runners tray-oloths window-blinds, as pre-

scribed by Departmental By-laws

(1 ) Unbleached, not being printed dyed or

ooloured

per square yard

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the lower duty.

(2) Bleached, not being printed dyed or coloured

per square yard or ad val.

whichever rate returns the lower duty.

(3) Printed, dyed or coloured per square yard or ad val.

whichever rate returns the lower duty. NOTE : The Government of the Commonwealth of Aus-

tralia shall be free to make, amend or re-
voke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 105(B) .

B. See note at end of Part II.

...... /. 18.3d. 20 per cent.
18.3d. 20 per cent.
jd. 5 per cent.
fd. 5 per cent.
Zdo 5 per cent.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A153

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

105 (continued) Picoe Goods (continued).

105(B) 105(F)

( 1 ) Velvets, velveteens , plushes , astrachans ,

sealette and cloths imitating furs, except

piece goods enumerated in paragraph ( 4) of

this sub-item

ad val.

( 2) Lace for attire ; lace flouncings ; millinery nets; dress nets ; veilings ; embroideries in
the piece ; tuoked linens or cottons ad val.

(1) Piece Goods , woollen, or containing wool, ordinarily used in the manufacture of outer
olothing for human wear and weighing more than three ounces per square yard
per square yard and ad val.

NOTE :

The products provided for under Item 105(F)
(1 ), the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 25 per cent, ad valorem.

(2) Piese Goods, woollen, or containing wool ,

ne.i.

ad val.

5 per cent. ( * ) 5 per cent. ( * )
6d. 20 per cent.
25 per cent.

105(G)

Hair Cloth and Cloth of Hair in oombination with other fibres for interlining apparel

...... B/.

105(J)

(1 ) Leather Cloth and Leather Cloth Binding prepared with rubber, oil , celluloid or nitro-cellulose ; Bookbinders ' Cloth prepared with nitro-cellulose

(2) Oil baize and fabrics similar to oil baize
prepared with rubber, oil , celluloid or nitro-cellulose -

(a) As prescribed by Departmental By-laws ad val.

NOTE :

The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make, amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 105(J) ( 2) (a) .

(b) N.E. I.

B/. 5 per cent. ...... B/.

B/. See note at end of Part II. (*) See note at head of Part II.

A154

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

105 (continued) Piece Goods (continued).

105( )

Linen piece goods , viz.:-

(1) Defined for cutting up for the manufacture of hemmed or hemstitched cosies doyleys hand-

kerchiefs pillow-shams serviettes tablecentres table-cloths table-covers table-

runners tray-cloths or window-blinds, as prescribed by Departmental By-laws ad val, NOTE : The Government of the Commonwealth of

Australia shall be free to make, amend or

revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 105( M) ( 1 ) .

(2) N.E.I.

ad val.

5 per cent 5 per cent,

106(3)

Buckles Clasps and Slides for Hats Shoes and other attire .·
(2) Wholly of metal ( not being partly or wholly of gold or silver) including metal enamelled ad val.
(3) Non-metallic, other than those made of glass tinsel or pearl shell , with or without metal fittings or metal fastening devices ad val.

20 per cent. 25 per cent.

106( ) 108(B)

Buttons, n.e.i. , including blanks and those partly finished -

(2) Wholly of metal (not being partly or wholly

of gold or silver) excepting trouser

buttons

ad val.

(4) Trochus , Pearl , or other Animal Shell , and imitations of trochus or pearl shell ad val.

Feathers, dressed, including feathers made up into trimmings ; also natural birds and wings ad val.

20 per cent. ( * ) 10 per cent. (*) 17 per cent. ( * )

110(A) (1)

Apparel , other than knitted, vis, : Overcoats and Suits -

(a) Men's 1, e. , with chest measurement of 34

inches and over

oach

and ad val.

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz. :-

ad val.

108. 15 per cent.
25 per cent.

(*) See note at head of Part II.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A155

SCHEDULE I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

110(A)(continued) Apparel , other than knitted (continued) .

(2)

(a) Trousers or Knickers with waist measurement

of 31 inches and over, imported separately

each

and ad val.

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz.:-

ad val .

(b) Trousers or Kniokers with waist measurement less than 31 inches, imported separately each

and ad val.

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz. : -

ad val .

110(A)(4)

(o) Coats and Vests , Mon's , i.e. , with ohest

measurement of 34 inches and over, imported

separately

(1 ) each Coat

and ad val.

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz.:-

ad val ,

(2) each Vest

and ad val.

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz.:-

ad val.

Coats ·

(a) Girls' , n.e.i. , i, e. , measuring 42 inches or

less from collar seam to foot of coat , viz.:-

(2) Wool or containing wool

each

and ad val.

er, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz.:-

ad val.

(b) Women's, ne.i,, viz.:-

(2) Wool or containing wool

each

and ad val.

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz.:-

ad val.

3s .6d. 15 per cent. 25 per cent.
35. 15 per cent. 25 per cent.
63. 15 per cent . 25 per cent.
23. 15 per cent. 25 por cent.
45.6d. 15 per cent. 25 per cent.
68,6d. 15 per cent. 25 per cent.

A156

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA

Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

110(A)(continued Apparel, other than knitted ( continued).

(5)
110(B) (1) (2)

Oostumes , Dresses or Robes, but not including

Dresses or Robes for infants in arms, or such

artioles when not exceeding 22 inches in length, vize:-

(b) Wool or gontaining wool

each and ad val.

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz.:-

ad val .

(o) Silk or artificial silk or containing silk

or artificial silk, but not containing

Wool

each

and ad val.

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz.:-

ad val .

NOTE : The products provided for under Item 110 ( A) ,

the produce of New Zealand , shall be exempt| from ordinary customs duties in excess of 25 per cent. ad valorem.

78.6d. 15 per cent . 30 per cent.
68. 15 per cent. 30 per cent.

Apparel, knitted, and Apparel made from knitted or

look-stitchod piece goods , viz.:-

Blouses, Skirts, Underwear, and Bathing Costumos-

(a) Cotton or other material n.e.i.

oach

and ad val.

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz.:-

ad val.

(b) Wool silk or artificial silk or containing

wool silk or artificial silk

each

and ad val.

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz.:-

ad val .

Coats, Jumpers , Cardigans, Sweaters, and similar garments -

(a) Girls' or Boys ' , i.e. , with chest measure-

ment under 34 inches

each

and ad val.

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty

ad val.

(b) Women's or Men's , i.e. , with chest measure-

ment 34 inches and over

each

and ad val.

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz.:-

ad val.

9d. 15 per cent . 30 per cent.
18.6d. 15 per cent. 30 per cent.
28. 15 per cent. 30 per cent.
38. 15 per cent. 30 per cent.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A157

SCHEDULE - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Mamber

Description of Products

110(B)(continued) Apparel, knitted, etc. ( continued).

(3)

Costumes, Dresses or Robes ·

(b) Tool or containing wool , but not containing

ailk or artificial silk

each

and ad val,

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz, : -

ad val.

(o) Silk or artificial silk or containing silk

or artificial silk

each

and ad val.

or, the following rate if it returns a

higher duty, viz, : -

ad val.

NOTE : The products provided for under Item 110(B), the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in emess of 25 per cent. ad valorem,

110(c)

Corsets

ad val.

110(D)

Apparel n.e.i. , for the human body, partly or wholly made up, including materials out into

shape therefor; material bearing any pattern

design or marking indicating that it is to be

used in the making up of apparel ; apparel not

otherwise subject to a lower rate of duty and

not imported for sale or trade and not exoeed-

ing a total value for duty of £5

od val.

110(3)

Nook Ties for human wear

per dozen

or ad val .

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

NOTE : The products provided for under Item

110( E ) , the produce of New Zealand, shall

be exempt from ordinary customs duties in

excess of 25 per cent. ad valorem.

110(H)

Shirts (including sports shirts) for men and boys;

men's and boys ' sports combinations, being sports

shirts and underpants combined

ad val.

110(3)
111 Ex (0)

Pyjamas
Artioles of natural or imitation hair:Hair Nets

ad val. ad val.

Rate of Duty
5s. 15 per cent. 30 per cent.
68. 15 per cent. 30 per cent.
20 per cent.
25 per cent. 28.3d.
25 per cent.
25 per cent. 25 per cent. 10 per cent. (* )

(*) See note at head of Part II.

95347 O 49-pt. 5- -11

A158

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 114
(B)
114(0)
114(D)
114(E)

Description of Products

Hats, Caps , and Bonnets -
Wool Felt Hats in any stage of manufacture for men
and boys, including wool felt hoods therefor per dozen or ad val.
whichever rate returns the higher duty. NOTE : The products provided for under Item 114(B),
the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in exoess of 25 per cent. ad valorem.

Fur felt hats in any stage of manufacture for men and boys, including fur felt hoods therefor per dozen or ad val.
whichever rate returns the higher duty. NOTE : The products provided for under Item 114(C) ,
the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 25 per cent. ad valorem.

Caps n.e.i.

per dozen

And ad val.

NOTE : The products provided for under Item 114(D),

the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 25 per cent. ad valorem.

Hoods for girls' and women's hats, viz, :-

(1) Wool Felt Hoods

per dozen

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(2) Fur Felt Hoods and Velour Hoods per dozen or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

For the purposes of paragraph ( 1 ) of this sub-item the term "Hoods" includes

hoods in any stage of manufacture up to but

not including the defining of the brim.

NOTE : The products provided for under Item 114( B) ,

the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt

from ordinary customs duties in excess of 25 per cent. ad valorem,

Rate of Duty
163. 25 per cent.
30a. 25 per cent.
108. 15 per cent.
58. 25 per cent.
183. 25 per cent.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A159

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II ( Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 114( F)(1)
(2)
114(G)
114(H)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Felt Capelines for girls ' and women's hats -

(a) Wool Felt Capelines

per dozen

or ad val,

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(b) Fur Felt Capelines and Velour Capelines per dozen
or ad val.
whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Felt hats for girls and women; Berets ; Girls ' and

Women's Caps ( other than bathing) of any material;

Hats n.e.i.; Bonnets

per dozen

or ad val .

whichevor rate returns the higher duty.

NOTE : The products provided for under Item 114( F) ,

the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt

from ordinary customs duties in excess of 25 por cent. ad valorem.

(1 ) Hoods other than of felt

ad val.

For the purposes of this paragraph a

hood means any unblocked form of any material

(other than folt) woven or plaited throughout

from the tip of the orown to the edge of the

brim, also any unblocked form made of braid

or similar material joined together by hand

with a concealed throad.

(2) Hat Forms of braid or similar material sewn

with a visible stitoh, but not blooked or

further processed

per dozen

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

NOTE: The products provided for under Item 114(G)

(2), the produce of New Zealand, shall be

exempt from ordinary customs duties in

excess of 25 per cent. ad valorem,

Bathing Hats and Bathing Caps of rubber or other

material

per dozen

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

88. 25 per cent.
20s . 25 per cent.
258 . 25 per cent.
25 per cent,
128. 25 per cent.
98. 20 per cent.

A160

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II ( Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 115
(4)
115(B)
115(c) 115(E)
(2)
118(A)(1 ) Ex 118(A)(2)
118(A) (3 )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Socks and stockings for human attire , viz.:Children's socks -
(1) Woollen or containing wool per dozen pairs or ad val.
whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(2) Other

per dozen pairs

or ad val .

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Children's three-quarter hose , including children's three -quarter golf hose ; women's and
girls' sports socks (1 ) Woollen or containing wool por dozen pairs
or ad val. whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Men's half-hose (1) Woollen or containing wool per dozen pairs or ad val. whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Women's and girls ' stockings, including stockings worn below the knee -
Other than oiroular -
(a) Woollen or containing wool per dozen pairs or ad val.
whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(b) Other

per dozen pairs

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Floor coverings wholly of cotton, except carpet felt underoarpet felt and those covered by sub-item (B)

Carpets, carpeting and carpet rugs, hand woven ; Carpets, loop pile or out pile , bearing designs which have been printed on to the warp threads before weaving; Floor and carriage mats and matting of grass, ramie or palm fibres ( other than ooir) or combinations thereof

Saddlebag in the piece or otherwise

ad val.

28.6d. 20 per cent,
28. 15 per cent.
48. 20 per cent.
58. 20 per cent .
108.6d. 20 per cent.
88. 20 per cent,
Free
Free ( *) 15 per cent .

(*) See note at head of Part II .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A161

SCHEDULE - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 118(B) 118(0) Ex 120(A) (1 )
120(B)(1)
120(B)(2)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Roof coverings in the piece, floor coverings, and similar materials , surfaced or unsurfaced, consist-
ing of felt, textile, or papar base, impregnated or laminated with bituminous , asphaltio, tar or pitch emulsions or similar preparations; dampcourse and similar materials in sheets or rolls
ad val.

15 per cent.

Linoleums and Floor Coverings having a similar

surface to linoleums

ad val. 20 per cent.

Piece Goods of artificial silk and piece goods being a mixture of fibres of artificial silk and cotton and/or linen, manufactured on Jacquard looms , defined for cutting up for the manufacture of hamed or hemstitched tablecloths or serviettes ,
as prescribed by Departmental By-laws NOTE : The products provided for under Item Ex
120(A)( 1 ) shall be subject to the same rates of duty as apply to products olassifiable under Item 105( D) ( 1 ) on the date on which the products are entered for home consumption. NOTE : The Government of the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia shall be free to make, amend or re-
voke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item Ex 120(A) ( 1 ) .

......

Handkerchiefs, cotton or linen or cotton and linen, viz.:(a) Wholly or in part of machine-made lase or embroidered on the multiple needle embroidery machines finished off with machine-made soalloped edge, machine-made hems or other machine-made fanoy finishing edges, containing no hand-made laoe and not embroidered or tamboured in any part by hand -
(1 ) the value for duty of which does not exceed 13.4d, per dozen
(2) the value for duty of which exeeds 18.44. per dosen
(b) Other

B/.
B/. ...... B/.

Ootton or linen serviettes

B/.

B/. See note at end of Part II.

A162

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 120(0)(1 )
1.20(C) (2) 120(0)(3) 120(c) (4)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

(a) Towels, viz. :Crash, Dowlas , Forfar, Glass Cloth, Huokabaok, Kitohen and Toa
(b) Towels n.0.1. , out or unout ; towelling n.e.i. , including Terry cloth and Terry robing, in the piece whether defined or not for cutting

1) white ( other than Jaoquard) ; white towelling in defined lengths and white

towols (other than Jaoquard towels and

towelling) , with coloured or partly

coloured headings or ends, excepting towelling or towels the coloured portions of which at each or either end

of the defined towel length or towel

exoeed a total of four inches per lb. and ad val.

(2) Other

per lb. and ad val.

Towelling in the piece defined for outting up, of a olass or kind not manufactured in Australia, as prescribed by Departmental By-laws ad val.
NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make, amond or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 120( 0) ( 2).

Towelling in the picoe not defined for outting up, of a class or kind not manufactured in Australia, as prescribed by Departmental By-laws ad val. NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of
Australia shall be free to make, amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 120( c) (3) .

Towelling, cotton or linen, in the piece not defined for cutting up, of a class or kind not manufactured in Australia, for use in the manufacture of art needlework, as prescribed by Departmental By-laws NOTE : The Government of the Commonwealth of
Australia shall be free to make, amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 120( c) (4 ).

...... B/.
2/d. 20 per cent.
21d. 20 per cent. 10 por cent.
5 per cent.
Free

B/, See note at end of Part II.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A163

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 120(D)
(1)
(2) Ex 120(F)
123(B) Ex 129(B) Ex 129(B)
130 (B ) (1)

Description of Products

Tablecloths handkerchiefs and serviettes imported

in an unhemmed, unpressed and unboxed condition, as prescribed by Departmental By-laws -

Cotton; made from piece goods containing a mixture of fibres in which cotton

predominates (excepting piece goods enumerated

in Items 105(AA ) , (D ) ( 1 ) and (F ) ) -

(a) Unbleached, not being printed dyed or

coloured

per square yard

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the lower duty.

(b) Bleached, not being printed dyed or

coloured

per square yard

or ad val

whichever rate returns the lower duty.

(o) Printed, dyed or coloured per square yard or ad val.
whichever rate returns the lower duty.

NOTE :

The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make, amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 120(D) ( 1 ).

Linen

ad val

Quilts, viz.:- Marcella, honeycomb, alhambra,

grecian and dimity

ad val.

Taste, engine oleaning Bookbinders ' Oloth no,i.

Bunting

Canvas and Duck -

Not waterproofed by treatment with any substance-

Cotton or containing a mixture of fibres in

which cotton predominates ·

(b) Otherwise

per lb.

and ad val.

B/. See note at end of Part II .

Rate of Duty
id. 5 per cent.
jd. 5 per cent.
Jd. 5 per cent.
5 per cent. 5 per cent. ...... B/.
Free B/.
4d. 25 per cent.

A164

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMIONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 136
(0)(1 )
137(A) ( 2)
137(B). 147
1.54 (A) (B)
155 (A)
163(c) 176(D)(1 )

30

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Iron and Steel -

Angle, Rod other than Wire Rod in Coils, Tee,

Bar, exeeding one eighth of an inch in thick-

ness and not being of fanoy pattern; Bar exseeding one eighth of an inch in thickness of

fancy pattern rolled direct from the billet bar

or rod and in the state in which it leaves the

rolls

per ton

Aluminium angles, bars, pipes, plates , rods , sheets, strips , tees and tubes, not further marufactured than plated polished or decorated
Aluminium Wire

Iran and steel , viz. :Plates and sheets , plain tinned

Railway and Tramway Material , viz.:Rails weighing 50 lb. per yard and over per ton
Rails weighing less than 50 lb. per yard per ton

Iron or Steel Beams, Channels, Joists, Girders, Columns, Trough and Bridge Iron and Steel ·
Not drilled or further manufactured per tan

Disos for agricultural implements

ad val.

Cement-malding machines ; road-making machines

ne.i.j stone-crushing machines no.i.; travelling

and portable cranes, hand operated ; ooal con-

veyors and ash-handling plant exclusive of motive

power oquipment ; aerial cableways exclusive of

cable; aerial ropeways , exclusive of cable , cars

and mechanical parts

ad val.

50s. ( *) ...... B/.
B/. B/. 308. (*) 308. (*) 50s. (*) 10 per cent.
20 per cent.

B/. See note at end of Part II. (*) See note at head of Part II.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A165

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 176(B)
(2) (3)
(4)
Ex 176(F)( 1 ) Ex 176(F)( 1 )
Ex F6(7)( 1)



Description of Products

Laundry machines and appliances , not being of the

type ordinarily used in the household, viz.:-

Ironing machines

(a) the value for duty of which does not

exceed £1,300 each

ad val.

Washing machines -

(a) the value for duty of which does not

exceed £600 each

ad val.

NOTE:

The products provided for under Item 176(E ) ( 3 ) ( a ) , the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 20 per cent, ad valorem.

Drying tumblers; shaking-out tumblers; drying

cabinets; collar brushing machines; manual

pressing machines ; sleeve formers; spotting

tables; steam boards ; collar turners (hot tube

type ); collar starching machines

ad val.

Air or Gas Compressors , ne.i , and Air or Gas

Exhausters, n.e.i.

ad val.

Metal-working machines , viz, : Drilling Machines , n.e.i. } Grinding Machines , n.e.i.; Lathes , n.e.i.; Planing and Shaping Machines (combined) , ne.i. ad val.

Wool Soouring and Washing Machines

ad val.

NOTE :

Wool-scouring Machines provided for under Item Ex 176 (F ) ( 1 ) , the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 20 per cent. ad valorem

Rate of Duty
25 per cent. 25 per cent.
25 per cent, 221 per cent. 30 per cent. 30 per cent,

A166

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 176(F) (2)(a)
176(F)(2)(b) 176(F) (2)(0) 176(K)(1 )

Description of Products

Refrigerators, mechanical, of the types used for

food storage, up to and including 10 cubic feet

gross internal capacity, and parts thereof, viz. : -

(1) Refrigerators including mechanical driving

units and apparatus for transmitting power

from such driving units to the driven

units

ad val.

(2) Parts (when not incorporated in complete

refrigerators) imported in an assembled or

partly assembled condition, viz.:-

(a) Cabinets

ad val.

(b) Compressors ( not forming part of

sealed or semi -sealed refrigerating

units) -

(1 ) Single cylinder

ad val.

(2) Double oylinder

ad val.

(o) Evaporators (not forming part of

sealed or semi-sealed refrigerating

units)

ad val.

(a) Sealed or semi-sealed refrigerating

units, including mechanical driving

units and apparatus for transmitting

power from such driving units to the

driven units

ad val.

(0) Other

ad val.

Refrigerating appliances and parts thereof imported in an assembled or partly assembled condition (other than refrigerators and parts thereof enumerated in sub-paragraph ( a) ) ; metal pressings for cabinets for refrigerating appliances ad val.

Parts n.e.i. of refrigerating appliances ad val.

Differential Meters not having a guaranteed acour-

aoy providing for a maximum error of 2 per cent.

over a range of capacity from full flow to one-

quarter of full flow

ad val.

(A " differential " meter is comprised of a primary and secondary element and depends for its operation on the difference of pressure between two

points (such as upstream and downstream of an

orifice plate) set up by the flow of fluid

through the orifice or other primary element, such difference of pressure being an indication of the flow. The primary element is the device
that produces the differential head such as tho
Orifioe or Venturi Tube and the secondary element is the device that measures the differ-

ential ) .

Rate of Duty
35 per cent. 35 per cent. 35 per cent, 35 per cent, 35 per cent.
35 per cent. 35 per cent.
35 per cent. 35 per cent. 20 per cent.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A167

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number
176(x) ( 2)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Meters n, e, i,, mochanically or electrically operated, for measuring gas air steam oil water or other fluids, including panels imported with such meters and including parts of such meters imported separately or otherwise (but not including (1) meters or parts of meters suitable for use in the retailing of petrol ( ii ) positive type water meters up to and including 3 inches in size and parts thereof excepting meters oonstruoted for measuring hot water in a boiler house or engine house (111) inferential water meters of the turbine and diso types and parts thereof and (iv) inferential water meters of the compound or oambination type and parts thereof) ; Gauges and controllers for water filtration plant and mechanisms for transmitting loss of head or rate of flow to such gauges ; Gauges ( other than those of the type used on motor vehicles for indicating the amount of petrol in the tank of the motor vehicle) for indicating or recording liquid level in reservoirs canals rivers or tanks ; CO and CO2 Indicators and Recorders including aspirators and filters for use therewith; Regulating and controlling devices , automatio ( other than those used in refrigerating) for regulating temperature humidity pressure vacuum or rate of flow; Temperature measuring instruments whether indicating or recording or combinations of both, apparatus for remote indication or recording of temperature measurements, and parts thereof imported separately or otherwise, using any of the following basio principles, viz.:-meroury in steel bulb type, gas filled bulb type , vapour bulb type, potentiameter thermocouple type, thermo-eleotrio pyrometer type, electrical resistance thermometer
type, and bi-metallic strip type (a) As prescribed by Departmental By-laws
(b) Other than those prescribed by Departmental By-laws under sub-paragraph (a)

TM

Free

A168

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 176(M)
(1 )
(2)
(3)
(4) 176(x)
(1)



Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Woodworking Machines and Appliances, not including extra knives , viz, : -

Planing, surfacing and thicknessing machines ,

ne.i.; moulding machines and shaping machines, n... , including routers and trenching and

reoossing machines ; combined planing and matoh-

ing machines ; combined planing and moulding machines ; combined planing moulding and matohing machines: -

(a) the value for duty of which does not ax-

ooed £400 each

ad val.

Morticing Machines and combined boring and mor-

ticing machines , n.e.i.; Glue jointers, oontinuous feed : -

(a) the value for duty of which does not ex-

Reed £120 each

ad val.

Roller feed, radial arm and dimension saw

benches ; double edgers ; straight line edgers; oross out sawing machines n.e.1. , double, mul-

tiple, straight line or automatio; variety

oircular saw benches ; sawing machines n.e.i.

(a) the value for duty of which does not ex-

eeed £120 each

ad val.

Woodworking Machines n.e.i. and appliances ne.i. for use in connexion therewith ad val.

Air Compressors (including Air Blowers) of the

reciprocating and rotary types , viz.:-

Of a capasity not exceeding 1,750 oubic feet of

free air delivered per minute ·

(a ) Portable, in which the prime mover is an

internal combustion engine direct-coupled

to the compressor, including the engine

when imported therewith

ad val.

(b) Other

ad val.

20 per cent. 20 per cent.
20 per cent, 20 per cent,
20 per cent. 22 per cent,

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A169

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

(a)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 178
(1 )
k 178(1)
Ex 178(E) 178(P) (2)
(3)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Motive Power Machinery and Appliances (except Electric) , iz , : Internal Combustion Engines (other than marine engines and engines for motor vehicles) -
(a ) Up to and including 50 horse-power ad val,

NOTE :

011 engines provided for under Item 178(D) (1 )(a), the produce of New Zealand , shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 15 per cent , ad valorem,

(b) Over 50 horse-power

Boilers and Steam Turbines , n.o.1.

ad val.

NOTE :

Boilers, land, and marine , provided for under Item Ex 178( E) , the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 20 per cent , ad valorem,

Internal Combustion Engines of the type
ordinarily used in Motor Vehicles (other than
Motor Cycles) and parts , n.c.i. , therefor ad val,

Turbines, Steam or Water, and parts thereof, imported with or for use with Turbo-generators or Turbo-alternator's:Parts of Steam Turbines, exceeding 2,000
horse-power imported separately or with oomplete or incomplete assembled or unassembled turbines, viz.:(b) Other

Parts of Water Turbines exceeding 2,000 horse-power imported separately or with complete or incomplete assembled or unassembled turbines, viz.:-
(a ) As prescribed by Departmental By-laws

NOTE :

The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make , amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 178 (F) (3 ) (a) .

(b) Other

B/. Sec note at end of Part II,

30 per cent. B/.
25 per cent .
30 per cent.
...... B/. Free B/.

A170

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 179
(A)
179(B) 179(0)
179(D)(1) (a) (b) (0)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Electrical Machines and Appliances :-

Electric Heating and Cooking Appliances · (1 ) Stoves, ranges , ovens, cookers , grillers,
boiling plates, boiling rings , and the like including elements therefor whether import-

ed separately or forming part of a complete

appliance

ad val.

(2) Radiators and toasters

ad val.

(3) Kettles

ad val.

(4) Flements for radiators , toasters and kettles

ad val.

(5) N.E.I.

ad val.

(7) Switches ne.i.; Fuses ne.i.; Lightning

Arresters ne.i .; Cut-outs n.e.i.; Choke

Coils ne.i.; Relays n.e.i,

ad val.

25 per cent. 30 per cent. 30 per cent. 30 per cent. 30 per cent.
25 per cent.

Regulating starting and controlling apparatus for electrio trolley buses , when incorporated in or forming part of any goods covered by sub- item

(H) of Item 359 ; regulating starting and con-

trolling apparatus for all electrical purposes,

including distributing boards and switchboards,

n.0.1.

ad val.

NOTE: Accessories for kinematographs , viz. :Switchboards , provided for under Item 179(C), whether imported with kinematographs or separately, shall, when the

produce of New Zealand, be exempt from

duty.

Dynamo Electric Machines , viz, : -
Alternating current machines (1 ) Induction type (a) Up to and including 150 horse-power ad val.

Converters , motor or synchronous rotary ·

(1 ) Up to and including 10 k.w.

ad val.

Direct current and universal machines ·

(1 ) Traction motors ( including traction motors for electric trolley buses when incorpor-

ated in or forming part of any goods covered by sub-item (H) of Item 359) ad val.

(2) Motors or machines (including bedplate, shaft, driving sheaf and brake drum ) suit-

able for use with gearless lifts -

(a) Up to and including 50 horse-power ad val.

25 per cent.
25 per cent. 25 per cent. 25 per cent . 25 per cent .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A171

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Ratu of Duty

179(D) ( 1 )(continued) Dymano Electric Machines (continued).

(0) (0)

Direct current and universal machines ( continued).

Ex (d) 179(D) (2)
(a)
(b) (d)
179(D) ( 4)(b) 179(D) ( 6)

Ex (4) (a) Other direct current and universal machines, up to and including 20 kw. , excluding electric starting motors and generators for motor vehicles ad val.

loctric Motors under 1 horse-power when not

integral parts of machines

ad val.

Static Transformers n.e.i. ·

At voltages below 66,000

(1 ) Up to and including 13,500 k, v.. -

(a ) Constant current , of the type used in the serios system of street lighting ad val.

(b) Other

ad val.

At a voltage of 66.000 (1 ) Up to and including 1,000 k.v.a.
At voltages above 66,000 -(1 ) Up to but not including 50 k. v. a.

ad val. ad val.

Induction Coils for all purposes unless other-

wise expressly provided for

ad val.

For the purposes of paragraph (2 ) of Item
179(D) , k, v.a. shall mean the k, v, a. rating determined in accordance with the Australian
Standard Specification for the Electrical performance of Transformers for Power and Lighting (1931 ).

Electric current rectifier assemblies including

transformers and control equipment imported with and for use therowith :-

(1 ) Up to and including 100 k, w.

ad val.

Electric Fans of the propeller types , other than

those of the type ordinarily used in offices and

the household

ad val .

25 per cent. 25 per cent.
10 per cent. 25 per cent. 25 per cent. 25 per cent. 25 per cont.
25 per cent . 25 per cent.

A172

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 180
(A) (2)
180(c)( 2)
180(D) 180( E )
(2) (3)

Description of Products

Electrical and Gas Appliances , viz.:Telephone and Telegraph, viz.:-

Keys (including radio ) ; Magneto Bells and parts

therefor, whether imported separately or

mounted with a key or switch; Indicators or

Drops with or without Shutters; Relays ;

Bell Coils; Impedance and Resistance Coils

and Spools; Lamp Sockets for Switchboards; Protective Apparatus; Cable Boxes , unprotected;

Devices for junctioning telephone and

telegraph wires and cables ; Ear Caps and

Mouth Picoes; Switchboards

ad val.

Gas cooking and heating appliances , including

gas ranges , viz.:-

(a) Water heaters

ad val.

(b) Other

ad val.

NOTE: The products provided for under Item

180( C ) ( 2 ) , the produce of New Zealand , shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 25 per cent. ad valorem.

Filament Lamps for lighting and heating per lb.

Wireless Receivers , parts thereof , and

accessories therefor , viz.:~

Condensors, fixed mioa

cach or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Artioles for tuning devices , viz.:-

(a) Dials, complete

per unit

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(b) Dial or Scale Assembly

per unit or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(o ) Drives , ratio reducing

per unit

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(*) See note at head of Part II.

Rate of Duty
25 per cent. 20 per cent. 20 per cent.
18. (*) 3d. 30 per cent. 29. 30 per cent. 6d. 30 per cent. 18.6d. 30 per cent.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A173

SCHEDULE I - OCMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

180(3)(continued) Wireless Receivers , ets. ( continued),

(4)

Resistors , fixed

each

rad val .

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(5)

Rheostats , potentiometers , variable resistances ,

volume controls and tone controls of types in-

corporated in wireless receivers

each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

NOTE : Acessorios for kinematographs, viz.:-

Volume Controls, provided for under Item

180(E )( 5 ), whether imported with kinemato

graphs or separately, shall, when the

produse of New Zealand, be exempt from auty.

(6)

Sockets, valve

each

or ad val .

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(7)

Transformers, audio and radio

each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(10)

Dendensers, variable, of capacities exceeding

m.i0o00r1ofmaircardo-farad, but not exceeding .001

With gang or drum control - per each sondenser

contained therein

rad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Without gang or irm contral

eash or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(11)

Condensers, variable, midget, of , 000 miorofarad

capacity or less

aoh

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(18)

Loudspeakers and Parts thereof: -

(a) Loudspeakers including transformers each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

NOTE: Accessories for dinematographs vize :-

Loudspeakers, provided for under Item

180(E) ( 12 ) (a), whether imported with

kinematographs cr separately, shall, when the produce of New Zealand, be exempt

from duty.

(b) Parts of loudspeakers imported cther than

in complete Loudspeakers , viz. :-

(1) Field Coils

each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(2) Field Ocil Cores

each or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

id. par oent.
44. 30 per cent,
2d 30 per cent.
13.6d. 30 per cent.
18. tad, 30 per cent.
18.10. 30 per cent.
91. 30 per cent,
73,6d. 30 per cent.
18,60 30 per cent.
6d, 30 per cent,

95347 049- pt. 5- -12

A174

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

180(3)(continued) Wireless Receivers , etc. ( continued) .

(12)(cont. )

(b) Parts of loudspeakers, eto. ( continued).

(3) Field Coil Housings

Caoh

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(4) Cones with or without voice coils each

or ad val ,

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(5) One Housings

each or ad val ,

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(6) N.E.I. , other than transformers ad val.

Provided ho7over that in the case of

combinations of any of the parts provided

for under Im 18C ( E ) ( 12 ) ( b) , duty shall be payable on such oantinations as though

the parts were imported separately.

(13)

Transformers, power

each or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(14)

Headphones; Parts ne.i. of wireless receivers,

other than cabinets

ad val.

(15)

Wireless Receiving Sets wholly assembled, partly

assembled, or unas mblod, excluding cabinets ,

valves, loudspeakers, headphones , batt-eries or any device for eliminating batteries

Par valve socket excluding sockets for valves

forming part of any battery eliminating device or ad val,

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Provided - ( 1 ) In the absence of valve Booksts

the sets rates on

shall be charged the basis of the

duty at the above number of valves for

which they are constructed or designed.

(2) In the instance of sets constructed ar

adapted for use with multiple purpose valves,

the sets shall be charged duty equal to that payable on sets having an equal number of unit

stages using unit motion valves ,

NOTE: The products provided for under Item

180(E)(15), the produce of New Zealand,

shall, whan not mounted in cabinets, be exempt from duty, and when mounted in

cabinets be exempt from ordinary customs

duties in excess of 10 per cent. ad

valorem,

Jd. 30 per cent.
110. 30 per cent.
18.3d. 30 per cent.
30 per cent.
78.6d. 30 per cent .
30 per cent.
98.3d. 3 per cent.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A175

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

180(E )(continued) (16)
180 Ex (F) Ex (F)
180 (G)

Wireless Receivers , etc. ( continued ) .

Wireless Receiving Sets and Gramophones combined ,

excluding cabinets , valves , loudspeakers , head-

phones, batteries or any device for eliminating

batteries

each

and in addition per valve socket

excluding sockets for valves forming part of

any battery eliminating device or as an alternative to the oumu-

lative fixed rates provided above

ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Provided (1 ) In the absence of valve sockets

the combined sets shall be oharged duty at the

above rates on the basis of the number of

valves for which they are constructed or

designed.

(2) In the instance of combined sets con-

structed or adapted for use with multiple purpose valves, the oombined sots shall be

charged duty equal to that payable on com

bined sets having an equal number of unit

stages using unit function valves.

Electrical and Gas Appliances , viz.:-
Piezo-eleotrio quartz plates, bars and rods ad val.

N.E.I. not included under Item 192 and excluding
pieso-electric quarts plates, bars and rods ad val,

NOTE :

Accessories for kinematographs, viz.:Amplifiers, provided for under Item Ex 180(F ) , whether imported with kinematographs or separately, shall, when the produce of New Zealand, be exempt from duty.

Storage Batteries and parts thereof, vis. :-

(2) Storage batteries suitable for use (other

wise than for propulsion purposes ) in motor

vehicles (other than motor oyoles) or eleo-

trio trolley busos , whether imported sepa-

rately or incorporated in or forming part

of any goods covered by Items 359(D) and

359(H)

ad val.

180(H)

Sparking plugs whether imported separately or incorporated in or farming part of any goods covered by Items 177(B) (3) (a ) and 359(D ) each
or ad val. whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(*) See note at head of Part II.

Rate of Duty 15 . 98.3d.
30 per cent,
15 per cent. (*) 20 per cent,
25 per cent, 9d.
30 per cent,

A176

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

180 (continued) Electrical and Gas Appliances (continued).

180( I)

Dry Batteries and Dry Cells of all descriptions

whether imported separately or incorporated in

any article or appliance

per lb.

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

NOTE : The products provided for under Item 180 ( I ),

the produce of New Zealand, shall be

exempt from duty.

21. 20 per cent.

180(K)

Electrical fittings and accessories, viz.:-

Flush Plates, Connectors, Ceiling Roses, Mould-

ed Lamp-holders (with or without switches ),

Adapters, Wall Sockets, Wall Plugs and Wall

Plug Tops

ad val.

NOTE : Flush Plates and Wall Plugs, provided for under Item 180 (K) , the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from duty.

25 per cent,

180(L) (1 )
(2) 180(M)

Condensers, viz, : -

-

Footrolytic

(a) Suitable for operation at voltages exceed-

ing 100 volts

ad val.

(b) Other

ad val.

For the purposes of paragraph ( 1 ) of

Item 180(1), each electrolytio condenser, when

forming portion of a set of electrolytic con-

densers or contained, with other electrolytio

condensers, in the one housing , shall be charged

with duty as a separate unit.

N.B.I.

ad val.

25 per cent . 25 per cent.
25 per cent.

Registers or Meters, of the type which totals

electrical impulses, such as those used in

telephone exhanges for recording subscribers '

calls and in totalisators

ad val.

25 per cent.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A177

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II ( Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 181
(A)(2) (B)( 1 )
(2) (3) 185(A) (c)

23

Description of Products

Electrical Articles and Materials , viz.:-

Valves for wireless telegraphy and telephony

including rectifying valves

each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(a) Copper wire ( in round, square or other shapes ) including stranded or twisted copper wire,
whether plain or tinned (but not including weatherproof braided aerial cable prescribed by Departmental By-laws under sub-paragraph (a) of this sub-item) , viz. :When oovered with cotton only, the covering
being impregnated ; when covered with paper only or with paper and cotton only, the oovering being either impregnated or not
ad val.

(b) Copper strip, whether plain or tinned, when

oovered with paper only or with cotton only

ar with paper and cotton only, the covering

being either impregnated or not

ad val.

(o) Cable and wire when covered with cotton only, but not further treated

(d) Weatherproof braided aerial oable, as pre-

soribed by Departmental By-laws

ad val.

NOTE :

The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia shall be free to make, amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 181 ( B) ( 1 ) ( a)

Cables, telegraph and telephone, paper-insulated

lead-oovered

ad val.

Cables , telegraph and telephone , paper-insulated

lead-oovered, when further processed by an addi-

tional covering ( outside the lead covering) of

any protective material

ad val.

Brake and Plough Screws ; Music Stool, Table , Roof-

ing, and Spiral Screws

ad val.

Screws n.e.i. , including Sash Screws and attachments

Rate of Duty 48.3d.
20 per cent.
20 per cent. 20 per cent.
B/. 15 por cent.
20 per cent . 20 per cent. 15 per cent.
B/.

B/. See note at end of Part II .

A178

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Pat II ( Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 187
(c)
(D) 189
(c) 190(B)
(1 ) 197(A)
197(c) 204(B)( 2) Ex 208(A)(2 )

Description of Products

Nails, viz.:-

Brads (including moulders ' and glaziers ' );

Picture Nails; Staples; Tacks n.e.i .; Wire

and other Nails n.e.i .; Gimp Pins; Spouting

Screws

per owt.

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

NOTE: Wire and other Nails n.e.i. , provided

for under Item 187 (C) , the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary oustoms duties in excess of £2 per ton. Lead-headed Nails , and Galvanized Oup-
headed Roofing-nails , provided for under Item 187 (C ) , the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 15 per cent. ad valorem

Harse-shoe Nails

per out.

Arms, viz.:Revolvers; Pistols

Smoothing Irons Electric

ad val

Spoons , Forks , Butter Fish and Fruit Knives, plated or of mixed-metal; Cutlery, Spoons and Forks, partly or wholly of gold or silver, except when gold ferruled or silver ferruled only
Platedware n.e.i.

Enamelledware n.e.i. , but not including stoves

and baths

ad val

Welding rods

ad val.

Rate of Duty
48. 15 per cent.
78. Free (*) 25 per cent.
...... B/. ...... B/. 25 per cent. 25 per cent.

B/. See note at end of Part II. (*) See note at head of Part II.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A179

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 208( c) 208(D)(1)
208(B) 215
(B)( 1 ) (2)
219 (A) (B)
2244 229
(7)(2) (B)(2) (J)

AN

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Mortice Looks , Mortice Look Sets , Rim Looks ad val.

25 per cent.

Kitohenware (other than electrical heating and cooking appliances ) manufactured of wire, tinned plate, plated metal, or a combination of such materials, with handles of any material or without handles; Metal Stove Toasters ; Dish, Pot, Pan or Plate Washers n.e.i.; Plate Sorapers and the like; Metal Soap Raoks ; Can Openers ; Metal Soup Ladles ; Cooks ' Forks ; Corers and Peelers ; Egg Whisks or Beaters; Asbestos Mats ; Ioe Pioks per doz. or ad val.
whichever rate returns the higher duty.
NOTE: Timware and tin manufactures, provided for under Item 208 ( D ) ( 1 ) , the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 25 per cent. ad valorem,

9ds 25 per cent.

Barrel and Sooket Bolts

ad val. 25 per cent.

Saws, viz.:Band saws
N.B.I.

ad val. ad val.

25 per cent. 25 per cent.

Tools of Trade for the use of artisans and mech-

anios and Tools in general use -

Sarewing tools , viz.:- Dies taps and ohasers for

use in machines or by hand ; sorewplates ; stocks; |

tap wrenches

ad val .

Hand tools, wholly or principally of metal,

n.0.1.

ad val ,

Shovels n. e. 1.

ad val,

Pioks, Mattooks, Hooks and Slashers ad val.

35 per cent.
30 per cent. 20 per cent. 20 per cent.

Graphite or plumbago

Oils in vessels exeeding one gallon ·

Castor

per gallon

Olive Oil no.i.

per gallon

Refined Cod Liver Oil, not compounded

Free
6d.(*) 18.6d. (*) Free

(*) See note at head of Part II.

A180

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 231
(B)(1 ) (2)
(G) ( 2)
240(B)(1 )
(2)
Ex 241 (B)
241 (D)
241(B)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Paints and Colours, vis, :Barytes, crude Barytes, ground

per owt . per ovt.

White Load, dry or ground in oil

per owt .

cr ad val.

whichever rato roturns the higher duty.

Electrical insulating sheets , being sheets canposed of asbestos and cement or similar materials
ad val .
Tiles , n.e.i.; shoots n.c.i. and roofing slates camposed of cement and asbestos or of similar materials; articles n.e.i. , composed wholly or in chief value of cement or of cement and asbestos , including articles of reinforced cement ad val.

Chinaware parianware and porcelainware, n.e.i. ,

composed of a vitrified non-absorbent body which

is more or less translucent

ad val.

Pudding basins of bromware, chinaware, earthenware including semi -vitrified earthenware, parianware, porcelaimaro and stoneware ad val.

Lipped bowls of bromware, ohinaware, earthenware

including sami -vitrified earthenware, parianware,

porcelainware and stoneware

ad val.

18. ( *) 18.6d. ( *)
5.1. 10 per cent. ( * )
20 per cent .
15 per cent.
10 per cent . 15 per cent. 15 per cent.

(*) Sec note at head of Part II.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A181

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

(0)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 242
(c)
(D)
(E)
(F)
244 (B)
249(B) 250(A)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Glass , viz. :-
Sheet, viz.:- figured rolled , cathedral, milled rolled, rough oast and wired cast
per square foot or ad val.
whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Plate, polished and patent, in sheets not exoeeding 25 square feet ; opaque, manufactured by either the casting process or the twin roller process, having a polished finish on one or both sides , of types not elsewhere specified, in sheets not exceeding 25 square feet
Plate, polished and patent , in sheets exceeding 25 square feet ; opaque , manufactured by either
the casting process or the twin roller process, having a polished finish on one or both sides , of types not elsewhere specified, in sheets exceeding 25 square feet per 100 square feet

Bent, Bevelled, Heraldic, Sand-blasted, Enamellod,

Embossed, Etched , Silvered, Brilliant Cut;

Corners Cut, Bevelled, or Engraved ; Prisms ; and

all Glass framed with metal , n.e.i

ad val.

Glass, viz. :Blanks, fused, for bifocal lenses ; and bifocal lenses partly or wholly finished, including such lenses imported in frames

Lenses, edged, for spectacles , except bifocal

lenses

ad val.

Mioa and manufactures thereof, ne.i. ad val.

Bottles flasks jars vials and tubes, n.e.i. , of glass earthenware stoneware or china, empty or containing goods not subject to an ad valorem duty and not classifiable under Item 408

1d. 20 per cent.
Free
10s. 15 per cent.
...... B/. 15 per cent . (* ) 15 per cent. ( * )
Free

B/. See note at end of Part II . (*) See note at head of Part II.

A182

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II ( Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 250(B)
xx 250(C)( 1 ) Ex 250(c)( 1 )
250(0)( 2) 250(E) 250(7)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Articles of cut glass , including bottles decanters flasks and jars of cut glass empty or containing goods not subject to an ad valorem duty and lamps and lampware of out glass, but not including articles of etched or engraved glass , viz. :(1) Butter knivos ; cruet sets ; oruet trays ; Jam
spoons ; mustards ; oil bottles the capacity of which does not exceed 4 fluid ounces ; pepper shakers ; salt shakers ; serviette
rings; sugar shakers ; vinegar deoanters the capacity of which does not exceed 4 fluid ounoes

(2) Other

ad val.

For the purposes of Item 250( B ) the term

"sut glass" is defined as oovering glass-

ware in which any of the cut patterns or

designs have been subjected to any process

designed to produce a polished finish.

Blown glass blanks, uncut and unpolished For use in the manufacture of articles of out
glassware as enumerated in Item 250( B ) ( 1 ) , as prescribed by Departmental By-laws

Blown glass blanks, unout and unpolished For use in the manufacture of other articles of

out glassware, as prescribed by Departmental

By-laws

ad val.

NOTE : The Government of the Commonwealth of

Australia shall be free to make , amend or

revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 250( C) ( 1 ) .

Glassware n.e.i.

ad val.

Heat resisting glassware for coolding purposes ad val.
Articles of glass including articles of etched or engraved glass (but not including articles covered by sub-items ( B) and (E) ) , viz, :Dishes, tumblers, salads, bowls other than lightingware, nappics, Jugs, candlesticks, butters, battery jars or lls, vases, trays , com ports, flowerblocks , mugs, sundaes, goblets, measures including medicine measures ad val.

Free 15 per cent.
Froo 5 per cent. 5 per cent. 15 per cent.
5 per cent.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A183

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 250(G) 251
(A)
(c) 255(A)
(B) (c)
Ix 262(B)(2)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Vacuum Flasks Jugs Cans and similar vacuum containers and parts thereof

Bottle Stoppers

Crown Corks and all other Bottle Stoppers, in-

cluding Stoppers for re-sealing, but not

including Glass Bottle Marbles and goods

classifiable under Item 395

ad val.

Stoppers imported separately for Hot Water Bags ad val.

Clue in dry form

per lb.

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(1) Cemonts and prepared adhesives n.e.i. , in-

oluding acetylated starch, mucilage, liquid

glue; belting compounds

ad val .

Gelatine, viz.:(1) Osloured golatine shoets of the type used
for window displays and for lighting
effects ; gelatine dust of the type used in the manufacture of ladies ' evening shoes

NOTE: The products provided for under Item 255(c) (1 ), the produce of Now Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 15 per cent, advalorem.

(2) All other kinds

per lb.

or ad val,

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Granite unrought, including rough or soabbled from the piak

...... B/.
25 per cent, 25 por cont.
id. 20 per cent .(* )
20 por cent .
Free
14, 20 per cent.
Free (*)

278(A) (1 ) 278(B)

Bicarbonate of soda; soda silioate

per ton

or ad val,

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(1) Caustic Soda (2) Bleaching Powder, and Chlorine

300. 15 per cent.
B/. B/,

B/. See note at end of Part II. (*) See note at head of Part II.

A184

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 280
(B)
280(0) 280(D)(1 )
281 (B)(1 )
281(B)( 2) 281 (0) 281 I (L)( 2)
281 (0)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Drugs and Chemicals, viz, : Salicylic acid and other food preservatives ne.i.; salicylate of soda ; sulphites and bisulphites of potassium; bisulphite of sodium , calcium, and magnesium; foaming powders and liquids and other foaming agents including maltopeptone yeast food, yeast food preservatives , yeast nourishment , quillaya bark n.e, i. , saponarias, glycyrrhizin and its compounds
Boric Acid

..... B/. Free

Saccharin, n.0.1. , and other similar substitutes
for Sugar, and substances capable of conversion into such substitutes for Sugar

...... /.

Drugs and Chemicals, viz, :Sulphate of Magnesia (Epsom Salts) ·

(a) In packages not exceeding seven pounds net

weight

per lb,

(b) N.E.I.

ad val.

fd (*) 15 per cent. (*)

(b) Hyposulphite of soda, hypochlorite of soda,

darbonate of magnesia ne.i.

ad val. 15 per cent. (*)

Alum, Alum Cake, and Silphate of Alumina including

Alumina Ferrio

ad val. 30 per cent.

Drugs and Chemicals, viz. :-

When packed for retail sale, vis, :-

Morphia and Morphia Salts; Strychnine and

Strychnine Salts

ad val.

Acetyl-Balioylio Aoid

ad val.

10 per cent. (*) 10 per cent. (* )

1

B/. See note at end of Part II. (*) See note at head of Part II,

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30 , 1947

A185

SCHEDULE · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 285
(A)
Ex287 290(0)
291 (H)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Medicines:-

Pharmaceutical Preparations ; Patent and Proprietary Medicines and Drugs, and other Medicinal Preparations, excepting Insulin; Medicinal Extracts other than Liver Extracts ; Essences;

Juices; Infusions ; Tinctures ; Solutions ; Emulsions ; Confections ; Syrups ; Pills, Tablets, and the like; Capsules; Caohets ; Suppositories ; Pessaries no.1,; Poultices ; Salves; Cerates ; Ointments; Liniments ; Lotions ; Pastes and the

like; Medicinal Waters not elsewhere specified; Compounded Medicinal Oils; Medicines for Animals
ad val.

With an additional duty if spirituous as follows : -

If containing not more than 20 per cent. of

proof spirit

per gallon

And for every additional 20 per cent, ar fraction thereof of proof spirit
per gallon

Ditronella Oil, non-spirituous

(1) Perfumery n.e.i.; Petroleum jelly n.c.i. ad val.

(2) Toilet preparations (perfumed or not ) n.e.i. ad val,

With an additional duty if spirituous as follows :-

If containing not more than 20 per cent, of

proof spirit

par gallon

And for every additional 20 per cent. ar

fraction thereof of proof spirit per gallon

Timber, undressed, n, e, i,, vis.:Other -

(1 ) In sizes of 12 inches x 6 inches ( or its

equivalent) and over per 100 super. feet

(2) In sizes of 7 inches x 24 inches (or its

equivalent) and upwards, and less than

12 inches x 6 inches ( or its equivalent)

per 100 super, feet

(3) In sizes less than 7 inches x 24 inches (or

its equivalent)

per 100 super. feet

NOTE: The products provided for under Item 291 (H), the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from duty.

20 per cent. 58. 50.
30 per cent. 30 per cent.
58. 58.
68. (*) 90.(*) 128. (*)

(*) See note at head of Part II.

A186

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I -COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 291 (J) 291 (N)
294(A) (B)
305(A)
309 (3)
309(0)
309(D) Bx 310(4)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Timber, for making boxes, being cut to sise, and dressed or partly dressed per 100 super, feet

Veneers ·

(1) The value for duty of which does not exceed

258. per 100 square feet

ad val.

NOTE : The products provided for under Item 291 ( N)

(1), the produce of Canada, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 25 per cent. ad valorem,

148. (*) 15 per cent. (*)

Staves, undressed, n.e.i.

per 100

Staves, dressed or partly dressed, but not shaped per 100

8. (*) 118. (*)

Furniture n.e.i. , including any article of wood or partly of wood, wholly or partly made up or finished and used in any building or premises including hospitals; also show figures of all kinds
ad val.

20 per cent.

Fancy Goods, viz. :-

Card Cases, Hatpins, Matchboxes , Serviette Rings

and Clips, Sovereign Purses, n, e, i,; Button

Hooks, Glove Stretchers, Shoe Horns and Lifts,

Thimbles, Ivory and other ornamental figuros,

Feather Dusters; Beads strung or unstrung and

Necklets n.c.1. , except those made of pearls

cultured pearls precious stones precious metals

or imitation precious metals

ad val.

30 per cent.

Articles for personal wear, not including articles

partly or wholly of gold silver or other precious

metal or imitations thereof or partly or wholly

of pearls or precious stones or imitations there

of, viz. :- Brooches , Bangles, Studs , Sleeve

Links and Tie Clips

ad val.

I.L.I.

ad val,

30 per cent, 30 per cent.

Oriakut bats; Orioket bat blades ; Oriokot balls ad val,

25 per cent.

(*) Soe note at head of Part II .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A187

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number Ex 310(A)
310(B) 314
315
319(B)(1) 319(0)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Artioles n, e, i, used for outdoor and indoor games ;

golf ball centres or cores ; golf club heads,

finished or unfinished; forgings for golf olub

heads ; wooden parts of tennis racquets ; fishing

appliances n.e.i.

ad val.

Toys

ad val.

Jewellery, oamonly known as rolled gold; Jewellery under 9-oarat; Imitation Jewellery
ad val.
NOTE: The products provided for under Item 314, the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 25 per cent. ad valorem.

Jewellery, n.e.i. , including Bolt and Split

Rings; Swivels; Ear Wires ; Bars and Stampings

used in manufacture of jewellery ; Medals and

Medallions of gold or silver; Ornaments of gold

or silver for attire other than Buokles, Badges ,

Clasps, Slides and Buttons; Combined Bracelets

and Watches ; Gold or Silver Safety Pins; Gold or

Silver Bags and Purses ; Lace, Braid, and Cord,

and all articles ne.i. , partly or wholly made

of gold or silver

ad val.

NOTE : Jewellery, ne.i , and Plate, gold or silver, provided for under Item 315, the

produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary oustams duties in excess of

25 per cent. ad valorem.

Gramophones, Phonographs, and other Talking

Machines, n.e.i., including cases imported with

machines

ad val.

Needles for Gramophones , Phonographs and other

Talking Machines

ad val,

20 per cent. 20 per cent. 30 per cent.
30 per cent.
30 per cent. 15 per cent.

A188

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 324
(A) (c)
325(A)
326

Description of Products

Leather , viz.:Chamois Leather

ad val.

(1) Patent and Enamelled

ad val.

(3) Calf, other than Patent and Enamelled ad val,

NOTE :

The products provided for under Item 324 (C) (3), the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 10 per cent. ad valorem.

(4) N.E.I.

ad val.

NOTE :

The products provided for under Item 324(C)
(4), the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of the duties in force on the date
of entry into forse of this Agreement, vis.:- 15 per cent, ad valorem or 3d. per lb. whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Leather Manufactures ne.i. ) Leather cut into
shapej Harness n, e, i, } Razor Strops Whips ,
inaluding handles , keepers , thongs and lashes ad val.

NOTE:

Belt butts provided for under Item 325(A),
the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary oustoms duties in excess of the duties in force on the date

of entry into force of this Agreement, viz.:- 15 per cent. ad valorem or 3d. per lb. whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Leather, rubber, canvas, and composition belting, including such belting whether imparted separately or incorporated in or forming part of

are conveyers or ore belt distributors; green

hide for belting and other purpose8

ad val.

NOTE: Leather Belting, provided for under Item

326, the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary oustoms duties in excess of the duties in foroe on the

date of entry into force of this Agreement, viz.:- 15 per cent. ad valorem

or 3d. por lb. whichever rate returna

the higher duty.

Rate of Duty 10 per cent. 5 per cent. 5 per cent. 10 per cent.
20 per cent,
20 per cent,

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A189

SCHEDULE I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 329
332(B)
333(A)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Boots, Shoes , Slippers, Clogs , Pattens , and other footwear (of any material), n.e.i.j boot and shoe uppers and tops (except of felt); oork, leather, or other sooks or soles ne.i. ad val.
NOTE: The products provided for under Item 329, the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 35 per cent. ad valorem

Rubber Manufactures and Articles wholly or partly of rubber , viz.:-
(1 ) Pootball Bladders , Bandages , Elastic Stookdings Leggings Thigh-pieces Anklets Kneecaps Wristlets and Athletio Straps

(2) Hat-makers ' Press Bags and Rings, Gas Bags,

Soles , Pads , Heels, Cash Mats, Rubbered

Tyre Fabrio , Tyre Rubber , Photographic

Accessories of Rubber not being integral

parts of cameras; Cycle Tube and Motor

Car Tube Repair Outfits

ad val .

(3) Infants' Soothers and Teats; Valves and

Nipples for bottles

ad val.

(5) Flexible Coupling Disos , imported separately ad val.

Pneumatic rubber tyres and tubes therefor, valved or unvalved , da : -
(1) Covers weighing cach 2 lb. or less and tubes weighing each 1 lb. or less per lb. or ad val.
whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(2) Covers weighing each over 2 lb. and tubes

weighing each over 1 lb. , whether imported

separately or incorporated in or forming

part of any goods oovered by Items 177(B ) ,

354(B), 359(D) and 359(H)

per lb.

25 per cent.
...... B/.
15 per cent. 15 per cent. 15 per cent.
6d. 171 per cent.
6d.

B/. See note at end of Part II.

95347 0-49-pt. 5- 13

A190

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

8CHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number
334 (1)
(a)
338 (A)

3

Description gf Products

Rate of Duty

Paper, viz. : -
Roofing and sheathing paper; electric insulating paper and boards

Abrasive paper, irrespective of size or shape ·

(1) Glass paper and flint paper

ad val.

Paper, viz.:(1) Manufactures of, or articles partly manufao-
tured of, framed (including the weight of the frame), or unframed, having advertisements thereon ; price lists ; prospectuses ; showoards ; catalogues, circulars , piotures n,e,i,, and printed photographed or lithographed matter, used or intended to be used for advertising purposes ; piotures used or intended to be used in the manufacture of
box tops, pad covers, calendars, almanacs and the like; all printed or embossed bags or containers; calendars , almanaos, and Maries; Australian directories, guides, and timetables ; paper patterns ; labels of all kinds ; tickets printed, viz. , railway, tramway, and other, including paper and board printed or prepared in any way therefor; billheads, memorandum forms, and all other printed ruled or engraved forms of paper n.e.i.; paper, printed or embossed with words lettering or numerical figures, of a type which when printed or embossed is suitable for use in connexion with the wrapping of goods or in the covering af oontainers for goods ; paper patty pans and like paper containers of all sizes, also paper ohooolate oups , including the weight of the immediate containing cartons per lb.
or ad val
whichever ratereturns the higher duty.

(2) Posters not elsewhere specified, used or intended to be used for advertising purposes per lb. or ad val.
whichever rate returns the higher duty,

...... B/. 20 per cent.
9d. 25 per cent. 25 per cent,

B/. See note at end of Part II.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A191

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item

Description of Products

Rate Duty

340(A) 341 346(D)
(P) 352(A)(1 )
352(4)(3) 352(A)(4) 358(A)

(2) Stationery manufactured n.0,1.; Christmas , New Year, Easter and Birthday Cards ; other greeting cards having pictorial designs thereon; Postoards n.e.i.

Writing Ink and Ink Powders ; Liquid Drawing Ink ad val.

The articles enumerated in sub-items (A) , (B) ,

and (C), when in fancy boxes

ad val.

Fancy Pencils ; Pencil Cases partly or wholly of

gold, silver, aluminium, or nickel ; Pen and

Pencil Sets and Penholders, ne.i.

ad val.

(a ) Sprooket wheels chain wheels and chain ringa,

for motor ayoles , not further manufactured

than plated or enamelled

ad val.

(b) ayole and side-car parts plated brazed enamelled or permanently joined, n.0.1. (not including parts of leather or rubber) ad val.

Wheel Rims for Cycles , Motor Cycles, and Side

Cars

ad val.

Handworked inflators of all kinds :(b) Other

ad val.

Aeroplanes, and other Airoraft including Balloons and Parachutes

2/. 15 per cent. 15 per eert, 25 per cent. 15 per cent.
15 per cent. 15 per cent. 25 per cent.
Free

N. See note at end of Part II.

A192

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 359
(D)
359(B) (1)
(2)
359(x)(1)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Vehicle Parts , viz.:Parts of vehioles with self-contained power pro-

pelled by petrol, steam, electricity, oil, gas ,

or alcohol, ne.i. , whether incorporated in the

omplete vehicle or separate, viz.:-

(1 ) Single-seated Bodies

each

(2) Double-seated Bodies

each

(3) Bodies with fixed or movable canopy tops ,

0.g., Landaulette , Limousine, Taxi-cab,

and similar types , and n. e.i.

each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

The word " Bodies" in paragraphs ( 1), (2), and (3) of this sub-item includes

Dashboards, Footboards, and Mudguards, when imported with bodies of which they form a part.

Parts of Bodies enumerated in paragraphs ( 1 ) , ( 2)

and (3) of sub-item ( D) , viz.:-

Pressed metal panels, not fabricated beyond

trimming of edges

(a) For single-seated bodies

per lb.

(b) For double-seated bodies

per lb.

(a) For bodies with fixed or movable canopy

tops and bodies no.1,

per lb.

Pressed metal panels, other (a) For single-seated bodies (b) For double-seated bodies

per lb. par 1b.

(o) For bodies with fixed or movable canopy

tops and bodies n,e,i,

per lb.

Vehicle Parts ne.i. , including Axles no, i.,

Springs n.e.i. , Hoods , Wheels n.e, i,, and

Bodies n, e, i,

ad val.

NOTE : Wheels, provided for under Item 359(F) ( 1 ) , the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties incx005 of 20 per cent, ad valorem,

11122 £

£20 £30 £55 30 per cent.
70 7d. 30 per cent.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A193

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 359(1)(2)
359(1) (3)
359(P)(4)
359(P)(5) 359( )(6) 359(1)(7) 359(P)(8) 359(7)(9)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Wind Screens whether imported separately or with motor vehicles or parts thereof except when parts of the types of bodies enumeratod in paragraph (3) of sub-item ( D) of this item each
or ad val. whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Gears (whether imported separately or incorporated

in or forming part of any goods classifiable

under Tariff Item 359( D) ( 4) except whan imported with motor vehioles or motor vehicle chassis as

original equipment ) for vehicles with self-

contained power exepting motor oyeles and

vehicles for railways and tramways, vis : - Grown wheels and pinions, transmission gears, differen-

tial gears, worms and worm wheels, internal tooth

gears, jack shaft pinions and flywheel starter

bands

ad val.

Motor Vehicle Parts , viz.:- Shackle Bolts Pins and
Assemblies; Spring Hangers ; King Pins ; Tie Rod Pins; Tie Rod Ball Pins ; Tie Rod Ball Studs
per lb. or ad val. whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Handles of all types for motor oar doors and for

motor car window regulators

each

ar ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Devices for catching or fastening doors of motor

vehicles, cluding handles

ad val.

Window Regulators for Motor Cars, aluding

handles

each

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Wind Screen Wipers

esch or ad val,

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Axle Shafts and Propeller Shafts for motor

vehioles

per lb.

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

78,60 30 per cent.
30 per cent.
6d. 20 per cent.
3d. 30 per cent.
20 per cent. 114,
30 per cent. 28.30
20 per cent. 4d.
25 per cent.

A194

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 359(P)(10) 359(G)
(1)
359(G)(2) 364 365
366(A) 369

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

U-Bolts for motor vehicles

ad val

Vehicle Parts, whether imported separately or incorporated in or forming part of any goods oover ed by sub-item (D) of Item 359, vis.:-

Springs for suspension purposes for motor

vehicle chassis, vis, :-

(a) Coil springs

per lb.

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(b) Other

par lb.

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Bumper Bars for motor vehioles

ad val.

Organs, Pipe

ad val.

Pianos and parts thereof · (A) Grand, with or without player mechanism each or ad val. whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(0) Upright, n.o,i,

each or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(D) Keyboards, complete or inooemplete ad val.

Musical Instruments , n, e, i,; Musical Boxes ; Metronomes and the like

Articles , not included under any other heading in the Tariff, of Celluloid, Xylonite, Synthetic Resin, Caseine or similar materials, Bone, Ivory Pulp, Papier mache, Indurated Fibre, or Asbestos

20 per cent.
3d 30 per cent.
3d 30 per cent. 30 per cent. 15 per cent. (*)
20 per cent. £5
20 per cent. 20 per cent.
B.
...... B/.

N. See note at end of Part II. (*) See note at head of Part II.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A195

SCHEDULE I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

3 6

Australian Tariff Item
Number 376
(4)
376(B)
380(A)(2) Ex 381(2)
381 (D)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Bags, Baskets, Boxes, Cases, Trunks, Purses, Vallets, with or without fittings, viz, :-

Bags, hand and purse, exept of metal ; Purses,

exept of metal ; Wallets

(1 ) The value for duty of which does not ex-

aeed 10d, per article

ad val.

(2) The value for duty of which exceeds 10d.

per article but does not exceed 15d. per

artiale

ad val.

(3) The value for duty of which exceeds 15d.

per artiole but does not exceed 24d, per

artiole

ad val.

(4) The value for duty of which exceeds 24d.

per article

ad val.

Bags, hand and purse, ne, 1.; Bags , sporting,

travelling; Baskets and cases, pionic ; Cases

and companions , toilet , dressing, writing,

travelling; Trunks , travelling; Satchels;

Boxes and Cases, jewel, trinket, musical in-

strument; Purses ne.i.

ad val.

Carpet sweepers

ad val.

Black China bristles (when boilod, bakod or

straightened)

ad val.

Brushware and materials therefor:(1) Hair and oloth brushes

por dozen or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty. NOTE: The products provided for under Item

381 (D)(1 ), the produce of New Zealand, shall be axempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 20 per cent. ad valorem,

(2) Tooth, sorubbing, paint and varnish brushes per dozen or ad val
whichever rate returns the higher duty.

NOTE :

The products provided for under Item 381 ( D)( 2), the produce of New Zealand,
shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in excess of 20 per cent, ad valorem.

20 per cent, 20 per cent. 20 per cent. 20 per cent.
20 per cent. 20 per cent. 15 per cent. (*)
30. 20 per cento
18.6d. 20 per cent,

(*) See note at head of Part II.

A196

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I · COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

381 (D)(continued ) Brushware and materials therefor ( continued).

(3) Nail brushes

per dosen or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty. NOTE : The products provided for under Item

381 (D)( 3), the produce of New Zealand,

shall be exempt from ordinary customs

duties in excess of 20 per cent, ad valorem.

(4) Brushes n.0.1.

ad val.

38b(A)(1) (2) (3)

.

Photographia and X-ray dry plates and flat films,

sensitised, not including photographic plates

eramerated in sub-item (B)

per square foot

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Photographic sensitised films 1.0.1. per square foot
or ad val, whichever rate returns the higher duty.

Photographic sensitized papers and cards also linen and other sensitised materials, no.1.;

postcards (sensitised with or without lotter

press)

per square foot

or ad val.

whichevo ca returns the higher duty.

388 390(A)(1 )(a)

Cordage, Metal, includi Jordage of Metal with

eare of other material, viE, :-

(B) X.L.I.

ad val.

Rope and Cordage (not including Twine) manufactur
ed from Manila, Sisal, Phormium Tenax or Coir ad val .



Rate of Duty 18.
20 per cent,
20 per cent. 3d.
15 per cent. (*) 15 per cent. (*)}
15 per cent. (*) 20 per cent. 20 per cent.

(*) See note at head of Part II.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A197

SCHEDULE I- COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II (Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 390(A)( 1 )(b)
392 (4)
392(4)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Cordage Rope and Twines ne.i. , including Sliver} Cordage with metal oore; Macrame Twines ; Fleece Thread; Brushmakers and Mattress Twine ; Roping, Seaming, and Shop Twines ; Halters and other Articles ne, i. manufactured from oord or twine; Textile Boot Shoe and Corset Lanes and Textile material for use in the manufacture of boot shos and corset lages -
(1) Ootton, or in chief part by weight ootton per lb.
and ad val. NOTE : Oordage, Rope, and Twine, no. 1 , provided
for under Item 390(A)( 1 ) (b) ( 1 ), the produce of New Zealand, shall be exempt from ordinary customs duties in exess of 20 per cent. ad valorem,

(2) Other

ad val.

Yarns :-

Ootton, or in chief part by weight cotton but not containing wool ·

(2)(a) Yarns for the manufacture of sewing threads, as prescribed by Departmental By-Laws

(b) Condenser yarns and Cooonada yarns, for

the manufacture of towels, as prescribed

by Departmental By-laws

per lb.

or ad val.

NOTE:

whichever rate returns the higher duty. The Government of the Oamanwealth of Australia shall be free to make, amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 392(A) ( 2) .

21d 20 per cent.
20 per cent,
24. 15 per cent.

(4) Tarns for the manufacture of cordage and

twines, as prescribed by Departmental By-

Lame

per lb.

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty.

NOTE: The Government of the Ocmorarealth of

Australia shall be free to make, amend or

revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 392(A)(4).

24d 20 per cent.

A198

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE I - COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part II ( Continued)

Australian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

392 (continued) (A)(cont'd )

Tarns ( continued).

Cotton, eto. (continued).

(5) N.E.I. · (a) Counts less than No. 16 oount per lb. or ad val. whichever rate returns the higher duty.

(b) No. 16 count and counts exceeding No. 16 oount but less than No. 50 count

per Ib. and for each additional count ex-

(oeeding No. 16 count but less than

(No. 50 oount

per lb.

or ad val.

whichever rate returns the higher duty. Provided that in the case of fold-

ed yarns being combinations containing any of the counts covered by Item 392(A) ( 5) ,

duty shall be payable at the rate applioable to the resultant count,

393(0)

Sewing oottons n.0.1.1( 1 ) In lengths not aweeding 400 yards
(2) Other

393(D)

Linen Flax Hemp or Ramie Sewing Threads (1) Having a running length not exeeding 2,400
yards per lb. or made from yarns up to and including 24 lea but not including threads
made up in spools or cops containing 2 ounces or less ; Blake, Welt and Lockstitch threads

413(A)

Cigar and oigarette tubes holders and cases, tobacco and snuff boxes, ne.i. , and accessories ; smoking requisites , including cases, tobao00 pouches, smokers ' sets , matoh stands, ash trays, smokers' lamps , oigar stands, and lighters

Ex 419 (D)

Elastic Gum Woven Catheters

ad val.

Rate of Duty
21d, 25 per cent.
27d. 0.14. 25 per oant.
...... B/. ...... B/.
...... B/.
...... . 10 per cent. (*)

B/. See note at end of Part II. (*) See note at head of Part II .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A199

SCHEDULE I COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA Part I Concluded)

Australian Tariff Item
Number 435 441
(A)
(B)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Celluloid Sheets
Sheets rods and tubes, wholly or in part of casein, vis, :As prescribed by Departmental By- laws NOTE: The Government of the Commonwealth of
Australia shall be free to make, amend or revoke By-laws relating to products admissible under Item 441 ( A) .
Other

...... B/. Free
...... B/.

NOTE :

1/. In the case of products provided for under Items in Part II of this Schedule against
which the symbol B/. appears in the column headed "Rate of Duty" and no rate of duty is shown in that colum, the contractual obligation of the Commonwealth of Australia shall , subject to the general provisions of this Agreement, be deemed in each such case to be only the exemption of such products from primage duty.

GENERAL NOTE:

The products described in Part II of Schedule I of this Agreement which are the products of territories entitled under Article I of
this Agreement to receive preferential treatment upon importation into the Commonwealth of Australia shall, on their importation into the Commonwealth of Australia
and subject to the provisions of Article I of this Agreement , be exempt from primage duty.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A201

Revised Translation by Department of State
SCHODUS II - BELGIUM - LUCK BURG · NETHOFRIANDS
Sections A and B of this Schedule are authentic only in the French language. Sections C, D and % of this Schedule are authentic only in the English language.
SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I
Most Favoured-Nation Tariff

BelfeLux Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

15

Dead game!

Ground game:

ex: wild rabbits and wild hares preserved fresh by any frigorific process (x)........................................... 12 P..

19

Fish, fresh (dead or alive) or presarved fresh by

a frigorific or other process:

fresh water fish.........

free

free

NOTE : The products provided for under tins Item are free from Netherlands monopoly duty

ar særresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge

to an amount of 150 p.o. of the average of the total quarterly imports (not

including imports owing from the

Netherlands into the Belgian-Lautenburg Soonando Union and imports coming from

the Belgian-Luxemburg Economie Union into the Netherlands) during the years

1936/37/38

On the quantities in emess of these quarterly quotes the Netherlands

monopoly duty and the Belgian-Luxemburg charge are not bound,

20

Fish, simply salted, dried or smoked:

Harrings (x).............................................................

free

free

21

Crustaceans and mollusos, fresh, whether or not

simply cooked or salted:

Lobsters, spiny lobsters, crabs , crayfish, shrimps and other crustaceans :

1. Lobsters, spizy lobsters, crayfish:

A Lobsters and spiny lobsters intended to be parked (x)............................................................... 15 p.

ex B. Lobsters and crayfish (x)............................ 15 p.. 2, not specified (x) ........................................................................ free

b. Oysters, mussels , snails and other mollusos:

1. Oysters:

 Seed oysters (x)..................................

free

B. Flat European, weighing not more than
30 grames each (x)......................................................... Co other (x)........................................................................ 2, not specified (X)........................................................................

5 Pro
20 p.. free

A202

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 26 27
31 ex 32 33 34 35
43
45 50

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS

SECTION A · METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Cheese of all kinds : b. soft chocsc ( x) ... C. hard or nodium hard cheese ( x) ,

15 p.c. 15 p.c.

Eggs of poultry or of game: b. Eggs sholled; yolks of eggs:
1. suitable for alimentary purposes 2. intendod for industrial purposca
NOTE: The Netherlands monopoly duty and the corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge are not bound

5 p.c. froe

Guts, bladders and stomachs of animals , fresh, salted

or dried; calves ' rennet bags , whether or not cut up

and dried ( x)..........................

.......... froe

Blood of slaughtered animals , liquid or dried ( x) ........ free Bed feathors and down , whether cleaned or not ....... free

Bird skins and parts of bird skins and birds' feathers, other than bed feathers and down : ex b 1. Ostrich feathers ........

6 p.c.

Bones, horns, horn-cores, antlors, hoofs, claws,

birds ' beaks , raw, also simply cut up, split or

stretched, but not worked; parings and waste of

these materials ......

free

Cut flowers and buds for bouquets or for ornaments: a. frosh (x)
5. driod, dyed, bleached, impregnated or otherwise preparod (x)..

20 p.c. 20 p.c.

Foliage, leaves, branches, grasses and mosses for bouquets or for ornaments: a. frosh (x) ...
5. dried, dyed, bleached, impregnated or otherwise prepared (x)....

20 p.c. 20 p.c.

Edible mushrooms , including truffles: a. Truffles (x) 5. other (x)

10 p.c. 20 p.c.

Other vegetables and pot-herbs , fresh : ex a. Asparagus , from 1 July to 20 April inclusive (x)

ax b. 1. Cauliflowers , from 1 January to 15 April inclusive (x)

g. Cucumbers, charidins , pumpidins, gourds and similar

products ( ....

........

ex h. 1. Artichokes (x)

15 p.c.
10 p.o.
20 p.c. 12 p.c.

#

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT . 30, 1947

A203

BalaLux Tariff Item Number 51
54
55

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Leguminous vegetables , dry, in grains, whether or

not shalled or split up:

ex b. Lantils

free

NOTE: The products provided for under this Item

are froe from Notherlands monopoly duty or corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge if

imported for human consumption under control

of the Netherlands Monopoly or the corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg Organisation . If other-

wise imported the Netherlands monopoly duty

and the corresponding Bolgian-Luxemburg charge are not bound.

Tropical fruits: ex a. 1. Dates, in packings , weighing 1 kg or less .. (x) NOTE: Aggregate weight of containers and contents. b. Bananas (x) ex c. Dossicated coconuts, Brazil nuts and similar fruits (x) ................
ex d. Pineapples ( x) ..........................................

15 p.c.
15 p.c. 10 p.c. 25 p.c.

Oranges, lemons and similar fruits: a. Orangos and mandarins: 2. other: March 1 to Octover 31 , inclusive (x)
November 1 to the last day of February, inclusivo (x)...... NOTE: During the period from October 15 to April 15, inclusive, the products described in the Item 552, originating in the Bolgian Congo, the territories 17 Africa administerod by Belgium and the Netherlands Overseas Territories shall
be subject to a customs duty not less than 50 p.c. of the customs duty, provided for under
the Item 55 a 2. During the period from April 16 to October 14, inclusive, the products described in the Iton 55 a 2, originating in the Belgian Congo , the territorios in Africa administered by Belgium and the Netherlands Overseas Territories shall
receive no tariff preferenco. b. Lemons (x) ...... c. Grapefruit:
October 15 to April 15, inclusive (x) April 16 to October 14 , inclusive (x) NOTE: During the period from October 15 to April 15, inclusive , the products described in the Item
55 c, originating in the Belgian Congo, the territories in Africa administered by Belgium and the Netherlands Overseas Territories shall
be subject to a customs duty not less than 50 p.t. of the customs duty, provided for under the Item 55 c.

15 p.c. 20 p.c.
15 p.o. 12 p.c. 15 3.c.

A204

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number
56 57 58 59
60
61

SCHEDULE II · BELGIUM · LUX BURG NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORI ES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

During the period from April 16 to October 1 , inclusive , the products described in the Item 55 c , originating in the Belgian Congo, the territories in Africa administered by Eelgium and the Netherlands Cverseas Territories shall receive no tariff preference .

Figs: b. dried (x)..

10 p.c.

Grapes : a. fresh (x) ex b. Raisins (amopt currants) (x) .....

15 p.c.

Almonds, nuts, chestnuts and similar fruits: b. Hazelnuts (x).. .... ........ C. Walnuts (x) ...... ex e. Pecans (x)
exo. Cashew nuts and pistachio nuts (x)

10 p.c. 10 p.c. 10 p.c.
p.c.

Apples, pears and quincus, fresh: a. Apples: Fubruary 1 to May 31 , inclusivo (x) NOTE : Customs duty and Netherlands monopoly duty or
corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge together shall not exceod 20 p.c. during the period from June 1 to January 31, inclusive . ux b. Pears: February to May 31 , inclusive (x) . ........................ . NOTE: Customs duty and Netherlands monopoly duty or corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge together shall not exceed 20 p.c. , during the period from June 1 to January 31, inclusive .

6 p.c. 6 p.c.

Stone fruits , fresh: ex a. Apricots ( x) ... b. Cherrios: 1. in brine sulfurwator or other solution for the
purpose of preserving them during transport , (x)
2. other (x) ....... d. other (x) .....

15 p.c.
i5 p.c. 20 3 20 p.c.

Other edible fruit, fresh:
a. Strawberries, whortleberries, currants, goose-
berries, raspberries and other berries ( x ) ................ b. Melons (x).....

20 p.c. 15 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A205

85

BeNeLux Tariff Itom Number 62
63
65
66 67
ex 68

SCHEDULE LI · BELGIUM- LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Fruit specified under Items 59 to 61, dried, whether or not out in piecos or sliced;
Apples and pears (x) ........... 5. Prunes (x) ........ C. other (x)

12 p.c 12 p.c. 12 p.c.

Coffee! a. not roasted (x) .......
(*) This concession shall only be applicable until December 31, 1940, inclusive,

fr. 300 or f. 18.16 per 100 Kg not (*)

Pepper and allspice (pimento), whether ground or

not :

1. Pepper (x)

......

9. other piments (x)

Vanilla (x) ..................

15 p.o. 15 p.c.
15 p.c.

Other spices: ex a. Cinnamon (x) NOTE: The products provided for under this Item, originating in the Belgian Congo, the ter ritories in Africa, administered by Belgium and the Netherlands Overseas Territo-
ries shall receive no tariff preference, Cloves and clove stems (x) .... 9. Nutmeg and mace:
1. Nutmeg (x) 2. Kace (x)

15 p.c.
15 p.c. 15 p.c. 15 p.c.

Wheat

free

NOTE 1.Maximum rate of Netherlands monopoly duty or corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge f. 4.- or fr. 66.08 respectively per 100 kg net weight plus the average landed cost por 100 kg of heat of comparable grade and quality, inported during the previous six-wock period, ainus the actual landod cost pur 100 kg of Wheat of comparable grado and quality in ported during the current six-week period, provided that the selling price per 100 kg of Imported wheat shall not be required to
be roduced in any six-week period by more than f. 1.- or fr. 16.52 respectively or 10 p.c. , whichever is the loss, with the understanding that the selling price shall not be greator than the averago landod cost of wheat of comparable grade and quality imported in the previous sixweek period plus f. 4.- or fr. 66.08 respec-
tively. NOTE 2, Not more than an average of 35 p.c. per annum
of domostic wheat or similar domestic products (including potato four) shall be required to be mixed with imported wheat .

95347 0-49- pt. 5- -14

A206

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Bavarix Tariff Itom Nurber 70
ex 74 75
83
84

SCHEDULE II

BELCIUM LUXE BURG · NETHERLANDS

SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I ( continuod)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Rice:

a. in the straw or unnllod

free

NOTE: Maxdmun rato of Notherlands monopoly duty or

corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge 1.2.-

or fr. 33.04 respectively per 100 kg net .

b. millod, including polished

free

NOTE: Maximum rate of Netherlands nonopoly duty or

corresponding Belgian-Luxonbury charge

f. 1.50 or fr. 24.78 respectively per 100 kg not .

Buckwheat

froo

NOTE: Maximum rat of Notherlands monopoly duty or

corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge f. 2.-

or fr. 33.04 respectively pcr 100 kg nct .

Four of cereals: ox a. Wheat flour
NOTE 1. A quantity not in excess of 50.000 motric
tons per year of wheat flour imported undor control of the Netherlands Monopoly into the Netherlands for consumption exclusively in tho Notherlands: free of customs duty.
NOTE 2. Maximum rate of Nothorlands monopoly duty or corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge will be the Notherlands monopoly duty or corres-
ponding Belgian Luxemburg charge for whoat multiplied by the reciprocal of the current extraction ratio. NOTE 3. Not more than an average of 35 p.c. pcr annum of flour of domestic wheat or similar
domestic products (including potato flour) shall be required to be mixed with importod wheat flour.

3 p.c.

011 soods and oleaginous fruits, whether or not

erushed or ground:

a. Peanuts (x)

free

5. Copra (1) ....

free

C. Palm muts (x)

free

I. Soya berns (x)

free

exk. Sesamum scods and hemp seeds (x)

free

Souds and fruits for sowing:

b. Souds of cloves , luccm, grasses and the like

for meadows (x)

froo

NOT : Maximum rate of Netherlands monopoly duty or

corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge for seeds of grasses : f. 15.- or fr. 247.80 por 100 kg net respectively.

The other products provided for under this

Item will be free from Netherlands monopoly

duty and corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A207

606

BevaLux Tariff Itcm Number 88
89
92 93 94 97 98 99 100

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Plants, parts of plants, seeds and fruits used

for perfumery or in medicino, not elsewhere

specified or included:

ex b. used in medicine: timbo; pyrethrus powder,

pure, not put up for retail sale; stick

Liquorice; boldo leaves ( x) ...................

free

Plants , parts of plants , seeds and fruits used for human consumption or for fodder, not elsewhere specified or included : ex a. Seeds of anise , badian , fennel , coriander
and cumin (x ) d.Mate ( x).......
e. Apricot and peach stones : 1. Apricot stones , entire (x) 2. others (x)
ex f. Peels and other utilizable waste of apples; seaweed meal (x) .....

froe fr, 826 or 1.50.pur 100 kg net
5 p.c. 10 p.c.
free

Plants and parts of plants , fruits , pods , berries,

muts and seeds for dyeing or tanning whether ground

or not:

ex b. Wattle bark

free

Gums, gum resins , resins and natural balsams ...

free

Vegetable sape and extracts not elsewhero specified : a. Licorice juice, including glycyrrhiza (x) ....... c. Camphor, including synthetic camphor (x) ........
d. 2. Fectin (x)

6 p.c. free 10 p.c.

Vegetable materials for stuffing and padding (kapok,

vegetable hair, sea-wrack ( crin marin) and the like,

whethor twisted together or not

free

Vegetable material for brooms and brushes , whether

twisted or bound together or not , raw, bleached or

stained (sorgho, plassava, couchgrass and the like:

ex: Piassava, crude

free

Other raw products of vegetable origin, not else

where specified or included:

ex: Raphia (x) ................

free

Lard

free

NOTE: The products provided for under this Item arc free from Netherlands monopoly duty or corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge, if imported for processing purposes under control of the Netherlands Monopoly or of the correspon-

ding Belgian-Luxemburg Organisation. If othor-
wise imported the Netherlands monopoly duty and
the corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge arc not bound.

A208

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number ax 101
102
103
104 105

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Crude tallows, including melted tallowS

free

NOTE: The products provided for under this Item are

free from Netherlands monopoly duty or cor-

responding Belgian-Luxemburg charge, if impor-

ted for processing purposes under control of

the Netherlands Monopoly or of the correspon-

ding Belgian-Luxemburg Organisation . If other

wise imported the Netherlands monopoly duty and

the corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge are

not bound,

Oleomargarine , oleo stearin:

a. Oleomargarine ....

free

b. Oleo stearin ....

free

OTE: The products provided for under this Item are free from Netherlands monopoly duty or cor-

responding Belgian-Luxemburg charge, if in-

ported for processing purposes under control

of the Netherlands Monopoly or of the corres-

ponding Belgian-Luxenburg Organisation . If

otherwise imported the Netherlands monopoly

duty and the corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge are not bound.

Fats and oils, refined or unrefined, from fish and marine animals:
ex: Fishliver oil and whale oil, raw ..... ............................ frne
NOTE: The products provided for under this Item will be free from Netherlands monopoly duty or cor-
responding Belgian-Luxemburg charge, if importod for processing purposes , or if imported in the form of pure medicinal oil, under control of the Netherlands Monopoly or the correspon-
ding Belgian-Luxemburg Organisation . If otherwise imported the Netherlands monopoly duty and the corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge are not bound .

Wool grease ; fat from bones , offal and the like;

oils of animal origin, not elsewhere specified or included:

ex: Neatsfoot oil (x)

frue

Fixed oils, liquid or solid, of vegetable origin, crude, purified or refinod:
b. China wood ("tung oil" ) : 1. crude 2. other
d. Cottonseed: 1, crude ... 2, other ...

5 p.c. 10 p.c.
5 p.c. 10 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A209

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM- LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A · METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

BONGLALX Tariff Item Number 105 (continued)
109
111

Description of Products
e . peanut : 1. crude 2. other
g . Olive: 1. crude 2. other
h. Castor: 1. crude 2. other
1. Palm: 1. crude 2. other .....
k. Palmkernel and coconut (copra) : 1. crude 2. other 1. Illipe, karite, makore, tulucina, babassu and oiticica: 1. crude 2. not specified
NOTE: The products provided for under Item number 105 are free from Netherlands monopoly duty or corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge, if imported for processing purposes under control of the Netherlands Monopoly or of the corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg Organisation. If otherwise imported the Netherlands monopoly duty and the corresponding BelgianLuxemburg charge are not bound,
Fatty acids: a. uid at 20°centigrades such as oleic acid (olein) etc. ..... b. other, such as stearic acid (stearin) etc ....... NOTE: The products provided for under this Item are free from Netherlands monopoly duty or corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge, if inported for processing purposes under control of the Netherlands Monopoly or of the corros-
ponding Belgian-Luxemburg Organisation. If otherwise imported the Netherlands monopoly duty and the corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge are not bound.
Hydrogenated fats and oils ..... NOTE: The products provided for under this Item are
free from Netherlands monopoly duty or corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg chargo, if inported for processing purposes under control of the Netherlands Monopoly or of the com responding Belgian Luxemburg Organisation. If otherwise imported the Netherlands monopoly duty and the corresponding BelgianLuxemburg charge are not bound,

Rate of duty
5 p.c. 10 p.c. 5 p.c. 10 p.c. 5 p.c. 10 p.c. free 10 p... 5 p.0. 10 p.c. 5 p.c. 10 p.c.
5 p.o. p.c.
10 p.c.

A210

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 114
115
117 118 120
121 123

SCHEDULE II · BELGIAN - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION METROPOLITAN TORRITORIES FART I ( continued )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Waxes of animal and vegetable origin; waxes : ax a. Beeswax:
1. bleached or coloured ..... 2. other ..... ax b. carnaubawax and ouricouriwax: 1, bleached or coloured .... 2. other

artificial

5 p.c. free
5 p.c. free

Solid residues from the preparation of fatty substances :

ex: Grease stearin ....

free

NOTE: The products provided for under this Item are

free from Netherlands monopoly duty or cor-

responding Belgian-Luxemburg charge, if im-

ported for processing purposes under control of the Netherlands Monopoly or of the corres-

ponding Belgian-Luxemburg Organisation. If

otherwise imported the Netherlands monopoly

duty and the corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge are not bound.

Other preparations and preserves of meat :
ax a. Liverpâtés of goose or/and duck, whether or not mixed together (x) .......

25 p.c.

Meat extracts, solid or liquid , whether or not navoured with vegetable substances: 4. packaged or in form of tablets (x)

25 p.c.

Fish , prepared or preserved, not included under Item 20:
a. in tins , jars or hermetically-sealed containers : 1. Sardines (x)
2. Pilchards (x) 3. other (x ) ....

20 p.0. 20 p... 20 p.c.

Crustaceans and molluscs, prepared or preserved, not included under Item 21 (x) .........................

25 p.c.

Other sugars (glucose, mltoso, lactose and the

like):

ex b. Lactose (x)

·

fr . 250 or f. 15.13 por 100 kg net

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A211

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 125
127 128 129 130 132
134
136

SCHEDULE LI

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS

SECTION A METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

-

FART I (continued)

Description of Froducts

Rate of Duty

Confectionery: 8. Liquorice juice and pastilles , swootoned
with sugar, whether flavoured or not (x) ...... b. Marzipan, nougat and the like (x)
c. Sugar bonbons , dragoes , pastillos , caramels and other (x)
NOTE : The complementary duty for added sugarsis not bound .

18 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c.

Cocoa in beans , whole or broken : 8. raw (x) ......

10 p.c.

Cocoa shells, husks and skins : 1. not ground (x)
Cocoa paste (x) .... NOTE : The complementary duty for added sugars is
not bound.

free 10 p.c.

Cocoa butter (x) .....

10 p.c.

Chocolate and articles made of chocolate :
a. in rods, pastilles , pralines, bonbons and the like, weighing less than 50 grms a piece (x) ...
b. others (x) ....
NOTE: The complementary duty for added sugars is not bound ,

18 p.c. 18 p.c.

Alimentary pastes NOTE: Maximum rate of Netherlands monopoly duty or
corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge will be the Netherlands nonopoly duty or corros-
ponding Belgian-Luxenburg charge for whoat or other cereals, multiplied by the reciprocal of the extracting ratio of the flour content of the products , provided for under this Item.

15 p.c.

Bakers' fancy wares, pastry and biscuits, whether or

not containing cocoa or chocolate

......

NOTE 1. Maximum rate of Netherlands monopoly duty

or corresponding Belgian-Luxenburg charge will be the Netherlands nonopoly duty or

corresponding Belgian-Luxenburg charge for wheat or other corcals multiplied by the reciprocal of the extraction ratio of the

flour content of the products provided for under this Itom.

NOTE 2. The complementary duty for added sugars is not bound .

18 p.c.

A212

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number ex 137 139
140
141 142

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUX BURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION - METROPOLITI TRRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Preserved truffles ( x)

20 p.c.

Other preserved vegetables, pot-hurbs and parts of plants: a. in hermetically-scaled containers:
ox 1. sparagus and green peas (x) 2. not specified (x) ..... b. other (x)
NOTE: The complementary duty for added sugars is not bound.

25 p.c. 20 p.c. 20 p.c.

Preserved fruit , whole , in quarters or in pieces, with or without added sugar:
b. preserved by some other means: 1. packaged (x)
2. not specified (x) NOTE: Products provided for under this Iten are, if
containing 10 p , c . or more added sugars, subject to an additional duty, which shall not exceed the following rates :
if added sugar content is 10 p.c , or more, but not more then 30 p.c .:
30 p.c. of the rate of duty, applicable at the time of their importation, to refined sugar; if added sugar content is more than 30 p.c. but not more than 50 p.c .:
50 p.c. of the rate of duty, applicable at the time of their importation, to refined sugar; if added sugar content is more than 50 p.c .: 100 p.c. of the rate of duty, applicable ct the time of their importation to refined sugar.

30 p.c. 15 p.c.

Fruits, fruit-peel, plants or parts of plants, preserved in su ar (cendied) (x)
NOTE: The complementary duty for added sugars is not bound.

20 p.c.

Jams, fruit jellies, marmalades , fruit pulps and pastes:
2. without added sugar, including fruit pulps simply cooked, unsweetened :
ex: Fruit pulps and postes (x) b. other (x) NOTE: The complementary duty for added sugar is
not bound.

10 p.c. 20 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A213

Bavelux Tariff Item Number 113

246 ox 147 148

SCHEDULE II · BELGIUM LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A · METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Liquid or concentrated fruit juices , without added sugar:
a. without alcohol (x)
NOTE: The products provided for under this Item, if packaged (in containers of 1200 grammes or less, not contents ) shall be free from wine excise tax in the Netherlands ,

18 p.c.

Liquid fruit juices, with addod sugar, and syrups for beverages, without alcohol (x) NOTE: Products provided for under this Item are, if
containing 10 p.c. or more added sugars, subJect to an additional duty, which shall not axceed the following rates :
if added sugar content is 10 p.c. or more, but not more than 30 p.c.:
30 p.c. of the rate of duty, applicable at the time of their importation, to refined sugar;
if added suger content is more than 30 p.c., but not more then 50 p.c .:
50 p.c. of the rate of duty, applicable at the time of their importation, to refined sugar;
if added sugar content is more than 50 p.c.: 100 p , c . of the rate of duty, applicable at the time of their importation , to refined sugar .

18 p.c.

Extracts , essonces and preparations with a base of ooffoo : b. without added ethylalcohol (x) NOTE: The complementary duty for added sugars is
not bound .
Propared mustard (x)
Treparations for soups and broths with a bards of vegetable substances; sauces and similar condiments: b. Sauces and sidlar condiments :
1. packaged ......... 2. others NOTE 1. Maximum rate of Netherlands monopoly duty
or corresponding Bolgian womburg charge will be the Nothorlands nonopoly duty or corresponding Belgian Lomburg charge for wheat or other coroals multiplied by the reciprocal of the oxtraction ratio of the flour content of the products provided for under this Itom. NOTE 2. The complamontary duty for added mngare is not bound,

20 p.c. 10 p.c.
25 p.c. 8 p.o.

A214

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 150 151 153
154 155
162

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION A - METROPOLIT.N TERRITORIES

FART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Alimentery preparations , not elsewhere specifiod or included:
ex b. blended flavoring concentrates (in liquid
or dry form) for the preparation of non-alcoholic beverages (x) .......

10 p.c.

Waters and icc: ax a. mineral waters, natural or artificial ...... 12 p.c.

Wine and grape mist : a. in containers, containing more than 2 liters (x) .
NOTE 1 ) . Type wines , registering more than 12° on the Gay-Lussac alcoholomcter at a tenperature of 150 centigrades are subject to a supplementary duty of fr. 11.60 or f. 0.70 the hectoliter for oach tenth of a degree of alcohol in excess of 12°
b. other(x).
NOTE : 1. "Wine" is understood to be the product of the alcoholic fermentation of the juice or the must of fresh grapes , Wines, which by absence of colour resemble rectifiod alcohol are classified as liqueurs of Itom 159.
NOTE 2. Wines registering more than 21° on the Gay-Lussac alcoholometer at a temperature of 150 centigrades are classified as liqueurs of Item 159.

fr, 600 or f. 36.32 per hl. 1)
fr, 1652 or f. 100.- per hl

Sparkling wine (x) ....

fr. 4200 or f. 254.24 per hl.

Wine prepared with aromatic plants (Vermouth and the like): a. in containers containing more than 2 liters(x)
b. other (x)
Moat-meal and fish-meal (x) .....

fr, 2000 pr f. 121.07 per hl fr. 2500 or f. 151.33 par hl.
free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A215

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 165
171
172
173
174 178 179 184

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Oil cake and other residues from the extraction
of vegetable oils NOTE: Maximum rate of Netherlands nonopoly duty or
corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge respectively f. 2.- or fr. 33.04 per 100 kg not .

Tobacco, raw or unmanufactured, and waste thereof: a. Leaf tobacco, unstommod ........ NOTE 1. The products provided for under this Item, originatingin the Belgian Congo , the tor ritories in Africa administered by Belgium and the Notherlands Overseas Territories shall receive no tariff preference . NOTE 2. There shall be the same import duty on all types of imported leaf tobacco (unstemmed)
Manufactured tobacco (smoking tobacco, chowing
tobacco and snuff; cigars and cigarettes; tobacco extract or sauce; tobacco dust mixed with other substances and intended for use in agriculture or horticulture): a. molding tobacco ...... 5. chewing tobacco
Cigarettes ....................

Rock salt , common salt, sea salt (sodium chloride), including mother-lyo; sea wator: b. others NOTE: This Itom includes salt which, although
suitable for human consumption, is first to be refined in a saltern or refinery,
Sulphur: a. crudo ......

Chalk and colouring earths, unworked ....

Graphite, unworked, washed or ground, including

artificial graphite:

4. packed or in tablet form

5. other ........

......

Granite, porphyry, syenite and similar hard stones, whether or not sawn in blocks or slabs, unworked or simply rough hown : 4. Granite ....... 5. Porphyry
g. others..

free
35 p.c. 35 p.c. 45 p.c. free
free free 15 p... free free free free

A216

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 185
194
195
204 206

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION A · METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Other carving or building stones, whether or not
sawn in blocks or slabs, unworked or simply rough hown: a. Potit granite ...... 5. Limestone ........................ . T. Sandstonc
6. Lithographic stones 7. others .........................

Mineral substances not elsewhore specifiod or includod :
b. Asbestos, crude, washed or ground ... c. Mica, crude, in shects , plates or rough dises;
ground ca d. Talc, steatito , whether ground or not 9. Infusorial earth, whether ground or not
Oros : e. of lead ........... I. of zinc ex h. of molybdenum and manganeso ........

Tars distilled from coal, lignite, peat , schist , etc.

4. non-paraffinic tars (coal-tars obtained at high

temperature)

A

Petroloum oils , oils obtained from the distillation
of paraffinic tars, lignite, poat , schist , etc .: b. 1. light petroleum oils ... NOTE: The products provided for under the Item
206 b 1, originating in the Belgian Congo, the territories in Africa administered by Bolsium and the Netherlands Overseas Torri-
torics shall receive no tariff preference. b. 2. medium petroleum oils ........ NOTE: The products provided for under the Item
206 b 2, originating in the Belgian Congo, the territories in Africa administered by Belgium and the Netherlands Overseas Torritories shall receive no tariff preference.
ox b, 3.other petroleum oils, except lubricating oils ......
NOTE: The products provided for under the Item 206 b 3 (ex), originating in the Belgian Congo, the territories in Africa administered by Bolgium and the Netherlands Overseas Territories shall receive no tariff
preference ,

free free free free free
free frve free free
froe free free
free

!

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -- OCT. 30, 1947

A217

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXE BURG NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I ( continued)

3

8:

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 206 (continued)
207 208 ex 213 ex 222 224 229 234
236
251

.........

Description of Products
ex b. 3. Lubricating oils ........ (*) Subject to the right to assess a duty, which
shall not exceed fr. 30.- or f. 1.32 per hl. NOTE: The products, provided for under the Item
206 b 3 (ex), originating in the Beldan Congo, the territories in Africa, administored by Belgium and the Netherlands Overseas Territories shall receive no tariff preference .
Petrolatum
Paraffin
Iodine
Acetic anhydride
Sodium hydroxide ( caustic soda)
Aluminium oxide and hydroxide : a. fused alumina (artificial corundum)
Salts of carbonic acid: 2. Sodium carbonate:
1. Crystallised 2. Dehydrated ....... b. Potassium carbonate: 1. Purified or refined 2. other ................... . c. Sodium bicarbonate Potassium bicarbonate ................... . e. Ammonium carbonate and bicarbonate : 1. Ammonium carbonate ...... 2. Ammonium bicarbonate 1. Mamesium carbonate A. Calcium carbonate ..... h. Barium carbonate .... Bismuth carbonate others .................
Salts of nitrous and nitric acids : e.others: 3. Sodium nitrate with a nitrogen content of at least 16 p.c. ..... ............
Salts of manganic acids (manganites, manganates and permanganates) : ex: Potassium manganate and potassium permanganate

Rate of Duty
free (*)
free free free free 8 p.c.
free
2 p.c. 2 p.c. 3 p.c. free 2 p.c. 3 p.c. froe free free free free free free
free
free

A218

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Iton Number 261
265
271 277
284 285 288
289
291 292

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUNDMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION - METROFOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I (continued)

Description of Froducts

Rate of Duty

Salts and other compounds of precious metals,

including colloidal preparations of these metals :

ex 2. Silver nitrate

free

Carbides :

b. Silicon carbide

free

ex c. Boron carbide

free

Aliphatic ketones: 2. Acetone .....

6 p.c.

Derivatives of cellulose and artificial plastic mate

rials made from cellulose derivatives , not elsewhere

specified or included ( "Celluloid" , cellulesc ace-

tate, viscose, etc. ):

C, Waste

free

Spirits (oil ) of turpentine ...

free

Gum and wood rosins and coumarone resin ....

free

Alkaloids and their derivatives, together with their

salts; glucosides :

ex c . Emetine and its salts

free

Opotherapic products : a. Rennet (x) b. Pepsin, pancreatin (x) c. others (x)
Sera, vaccines and bacterial preparations
Prepared medicaments , preparations in doses and other pharmaceutical preparations: a. with alcohol 5. without alcohol
NOTE 1. For imported articles put up for retail sale, duty is calculeted on the retail price.
NOTE 2. This duty must not be less than that, which would be payable were the articles classified under the Item 159 bis.

10 p.c. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 10 p.c.
12 p.c. (1 ) ( 2) 12 p.c. ( 1)

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A219

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 294
295 296 298 303 305 308

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I ( continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Motion picture films : a. sensitized but not exposed , b. exposed , but not developed :
1. negatives ....
2, positives....
c. developed , silent: 1. negatives including "lavande" positives..........
2. positives...
d. developed , with sound : 1. negatives including " lavande" positives ....
2. positives..

12 p.c.
fr.33.04 or 1.2.- par 100 lineal meters fr.1.65
f.0.10 per 11neal mater
fr.33.04 or 1.2.- per 100 lineal meters fr.1.65 or 1.0.10 per 11. neal meter
fr.33.04 or 1.2.- per 100 lineal meters fr.1.65 or f.0.10 per 1neal meter

Films and plates for photography, sensitized : . of " Celluloid" and similar materials..
Papers and cards for photography: b. sensitized with silver or platinum salts C. sensitised with iron and other sabts..

24 p.c.
24 p.C. 24 p.c.

Tanning extracts of vegetable origin:

ex: derived from acacia and eucalyptus

free

Lamp blacks and other mineral and vegetable blacks,

not prepared!

a. Lamp blacks ....

free

b. other mineral and vegetable blacks,........

free

Earth calours (ochres and the like), ground, washed or calcined:
4. pure, whether or not mixed with one another..... free

Prepared colours of all kinds:
a. Printing ink and similar inks : ex 1. black, without alcohol.. ex 2 , coloured without alcohol.
b. Inking ribbons, impregnated with ink or a colouring matter for typewriting, calculating and similar machines,.....

12 p.c. 12 p.c.
15 p.c.

A220

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number ex 309 310 311
312 ex 313 314
315
316
317

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS

SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I ( continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Colours of all kinds, made up for retail sale (in cakes, pastilles , tubes, pans, small bottles, sachets , etc. ) , without alcohol...
Solid or liquid driers (borates , oleates, resinates, naphtenates or of manganese , lead, cobalt, etc . ) . ..................
Varnishes , with or without added pigments or dyes of all kinds , concentrated or not : a. Oil varnishes ............ ........................ b. Spirit varnishes ........................................ C. Cellulose varnishes ..... ..................
Mastics ; sealing wax and bottling wax : a. Mastics .........
Writing ink, whether liquid or in powder, without alcohol .....
Pencils , leads , pastel crayons and chalks for writing and drawing: 4. Pencils... b, Leads , pastel crayons and sticks of charcoal :
2. other...............
Essential or volatile vegetable oils (other than turpentine ) , also terpeneless oils , and their terpenes ...... NOTE: Citronella oil and cinnamon oil , origina-
ting from the Belgian Congo , the territories in Africa administered by Belgium or the Netherlands overseas territories shall be subject to a customs duty not less than 50 p.c , of the customs duty, provided for under this Item.
Artificial odoriferous substances ( synthetic perfumes) and definite constituents separated from the natural essential oils: a, Menthol ............. 5. others....
Mixtures of essential oils , of their separate constituents , of artificial oriferous substances, for perfumery, confectionery, the manufacture of beverages etc .: b. Without ethyl alcohol ......

15 p.c. 12 p.c. 12 p.c. 12 p.c. 12 p.c. 4p.c. 15 p.c. 12 p.c. 15 p.c. 8 p.c.
8 p.c. 12 p.c.
12 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A221

22

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 319
320
321 324
326 329
330 342 343
344

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products
Perfumery and cosmetic articles : a. with alcohol ..... NOTE (*) Provided this duty is not less than
in the case of application of tariff Item number 159bis b. without alcohol
Soaps: a. soft soaps (black soaps , green soaps and the
like) and resin soaps : 2. other................ b. ordinary soaps in blocks , slabs or bars.. C. Soaps in powder, flakes , granules , etc. and in liquid form, perfumed or not ,. d, other (toilet , medicinal and similar soaps) : 1. Toilet soaps.... 2. other.....
Preparations for washing clothes , even if not containing soap: ex: soapless detergents ,.
Waxes, encaustics, creams , pastes and similar preparations, whether liquid or not , for cleansing, polishing and preserving leather, footwear, metal wares, furniture , floors , etc ...
Casein (x) .......
Glues of animal origin: a. Fish glues , .... b. Glues from bones, hides , sinews and similar
substances .......... .................................................................. ex c, others, except urea glue ....
Pastes for graphic reproduction and schudlar gelatine base preparations .......................................
Fertilizers of animal or vegetable origin, not chemically prepared ...
Nitrogenous mineral or chemical fertilizers: 4. Sodium nitrate , calciumitrate , ammonium-
nitrate : 1. Sodium nitrate with nitrogen content of
less than 16 per cent (x) ....
Phosphated mineral or chemical fertilizers: a, Natural phosphates, ground or not ..... 6. Dephosphorization slag. c. Superphosphates..... d. Precipitated phosphate (dicalcic phosphate)
and other...

Rate of Duty
24 p.e, (* )
24 p..
12 p.. 15 p.e. 24 p.e. 20 p... 24 p.e.
15 p..
15 p.. free
10 p.. 10 pelle 10 p.e. 10 p.c. free
free free free free free

95347 0--49 -pt. 5 -15

A222

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 345
346
347 348 349
350
351

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I ( continued)

Description of Products
Potash fertilizers : a. crude potash salts (carnallite , kainite,
sylvinite, Hartsalz etc . ) ..... b. Potassium chloride ...................... C. Potassium sulphate .... d. other.... ............
Mineral or chemical fertilizers consisting of at least two of the fertilizing elements : nitrogen , phosphoric acid and potash; mixtures of mineral or chemical fertilizers with fertilizers of animal or vegetable origin:
a. Potassium nitrate not refined (x) 5. Ammonium phosphate (x) C. Potassium phosphate (x) d. Compounds with a base of ammonium nitrate or
ammonium chloride (x ) e. other (x)
Fertilizers not elsewhere specified or included ...
Raw hides or skins (fresh, salted , dried, limed pickled, etc . ) ........
Hide leather for soles and transmission belts: a, whole and half hides ur skins:
1. vegetable- tanned , ... ............. 2. mineral-tanned ... b. Butts and bends : 1, vegetable-tanned..... 2. mineral -tanned .... ............................................. c . other (shoulders , bellies , necks , etc. ) : 1. vegetable-tanned ..... 2. mineral-tanned, (*) Subject to the right to increase the duty to a maximum of 12 p , c .
Hides of large animals , such as ox, cow and horse hides, and other similar leathers , except those, included in item 349: a. simply tanned, uncurried ,. b. other:
1. vegetable-tanned ...... 2 , mineral-tanned ... (*) Subject to the right to increase the duty to a maximum of 12 per cent
Calf skins : a, simply tanned, uncurried,, b, other:
1. vegetable-tanned .... 2, mineral-tanned. (*) Subject to the right to increase the duty to a maximum of 12 p.c.

Rate of Duty
free free free free
free free free free free free
free
6 p. 6 p... 6 p.e. 8 6 p.c. Sp.c. 33
6 p.e. for 6 p.c. 6 p.. 8
6 p... (*) 6 p.c. (*) 6 p.c.

a

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A223

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 352
353 354
355
360
361 362 363
364 366

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Sheep and goat skins : a. simply tanned, uncurried .... b. other:
1. Sheepkins : , vegetable-tanned...... B. mineral-tanned..
2. Goatskins : A, vegetable-tanned ....... B, mineral-tanned ............................................
(*) Subject to the right to increase the duty to a maximum of 12 per cent
Varnished (patent ) , gilt, silvered, bronzed leather (hides or skins) ...
Tawed or chamois-dressed hides or skins: b. chamois-dressed (oil -dressed) :
1. neither rolled nor cut............ 2. others......
Skins not particularly specified : a, Parchment-dressed skins ......... 5. Pigskins ......
Snake-skins, lizard-skins and fish-sidins , dother......
Morocco wares, case-makers ' wares and travelling requisites, of leather: 4. Morocco wares, case-makers ' wares . b. Travelling requisites.....
Leather clothing...
Leather gloves: a, all leather... b. other.....
Technical articles of leather or skin. b. Accessories and parts c machines and other
technical articles..... (*) Subject to the right to increase the duty
to a maximum of 12 per cent
Manufactures of leather, hides or skins, not elsewhere specified or included: 4. simply cut or stamped out.. ex b. Leather for hats ..........
Fur skina, raw..............

3 p.c. (* )
6 p.c. (*) 6 p.c. (*) 6 p.c. 6 p.c. (* )
10 p.c.
10 p.c. 15 p.c.
6 p.c. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 6 p.c.
20 p.c. 20 p.o. 20 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c.
6 p.c. (*)
12 p.c. 15 p.. free

A224

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.



BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 367 369 369
371
373
374
376
377 378
379 381 382

SCHEDULE II · BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I ( continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Fur skins, dressed .....
Fur skins, made up........
Rubber, gutta-percha, balata and substitutes therefor, raw: a, natural and synthetic rubber, gutta-percha
and balata, whether purified or not.................
Pastes, plates and sheets of non-vulcanised rubber; rubber-solution : 2. Pastes, plates and sheets .......
Pipes and tubes, of non-hardened rubber: 4. combined with textile materials or metals, b. others.....
Articles of non-hardened rubber for technical use: 4. drive and conveyor belts. ................................................. ex . Blocks and washers for shock absorption,
brake blocks and the like.....
Manufactures of non-hardened rubber produced by immersion or by cementing sheets together: a. produced by immersion................................... b. others......
Other manufactures of non-hardened rubber: g. Articles of sponge rubber...............................
Hardened rubber in lumps, slabs, plates, sheets, rods or tubes:
raw, not worked .......... b. polished or otherwise surface-worked,
Articles made of hardened rubber: ex: Screw stoppers and other stoppers,...
Charcoal, including charcoal powdered or in briquettes .............................
Wood in the round , rough, whether or not stripped of the bark, or rough hewn: a. Conifers:
2, for the manufacture of paper pulp.......... 3. not specified............................ b. other: 2, for the manufacture of paper pulp... 3, not specified .......

6 p.c. 2,4 p..
free
6 p.. 12 p.c. 12 p.c. 10 p.. 8 p.c.
20 p.c. 20 p,c. 20 p..
6 p.c. 10 p.c. 12 p. , 5 p.c.
free free free free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A225

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 383
384
385 389
ex 390 391
392

SCHEDULE II  BELGIUM LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Wood, squared with the axe or by sawing, not elsewhere specified or included : ex a. Douglas fir, pitchpine (including
Southern pine), ponderosa pine, white pine, and redwood .......... ex b. Ash, cypress, gum, hickory, oak, poplar, Jarrah, teak, pyinkado, ingyin and eng.......
Wood, merely sawn longitudinally, not elsewhere specified or included: ex a. of Douglas fir, pitchpine (including
Southern pine ), ponderosa pine , white pine and redwood: 1. having at any point a thickness
exceeding 76.2 mm, or a width ex ceeding 279.4 mm,, or a length exceeding 7.01 meters..... ................... 2. not specified...... ex b. of ash, cypress, gum, hickory, oak, poplar, Jarrah, teak, pyinkado, ingyin and eng.............

free free
10 p... 3 p.c. 3 p..

Railway and tramway sleepers...

3 p.c.

Wood split small; pegs, whether in strips or not, for boots and shoes; wood wool (straw); wood flour:
ex b. Wood split small and wood wool,....

6 p.c.

Wood, planed, grooved or tongued..

10 p,c.

Blocks and panels for parquet flooring: ex a, Blocks and sheets not put together of teak, pyinkado , ingyin, eng and Parana pine (Araucaria Brasiliensis ) ...... ex b. Blooks and sheets put together, whether or not veneered with marquetry work etc. , of teak, pyinkado , ingyin, eng and Parana pine (Araucaria Brasiliensis)
Veneering sheets ......

10 p.c.
18 p.c. 6 pc.

A226

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 393
394
396
397

SCHEDULE II · BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS ECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products
Plywood and blockboard: ex a. Sheets having both faces of
coniferous wood..... ex b. other, if having one face of teak,
cedar, gum, mahogany, oak, walnut, or substances other than wood......
Beadings for furniture, frames, interior decoration and the like : b. covered with plaster or paste, moulded
or not in relief or intaglio, but not finished ....... g, veneered, polished, painted, varnished, bronsed, silvered, gilt, etc..........
Wooden packing-cases or crates, whether in shooks or not:
Shooks cut to specified dimensions .... assembled parts of cases or crates and cases or crates put together, with or without metal accessories or lining....
Casks, tubs, buckets and other coopers ' wares and finished parts thereof, with or without metal hoops, accessories or linings:
4. of soft wood: 1. Staves and heads or bottoms...
b. others : 1. Staves and heads or bottoms...

Rate of Duty
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c.
8 p.c. 12 p.c.
6 p.c. 6 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A227,

22

20

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 400 402 404
412
416
420 425
428 430

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM · LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I ( continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Household articles and tools of wood: Household articles
5. Tools, tool handles and boot or shoe lasts
Furniture and parts of furniture of bentwood : b. other .............................

18 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c.

Small articles of cabinet -work (boxes , caskets, cases jewal-boxes, etc. ) , articles of domestic ornament and fancy or decoration articles of wood, not elsewhere specified or included .............

24 p.o.

Other wares of vegetable plaiting material, not
elsewhere specified or included, whether or not combined with other materials :
b. China mats and similar mats, carpets and other fabrics .......

18 p.c.

Paper pulp: b. Pulp from wood, straw, alfa or similar fibres:
1. mechanical, including brown pulp and similar pulps
2. chemical (collulose)

free free

Paper in rolls or sheets, not made up or worked , weighing up to 30 grammes per square meter: a. Cigarette paper ...........

10 p.c.

Special card-board and paper, in rolls, sheets or plates: a. vulcanized
NOTE: Item 425 a also includes card-board and paper, vulcanized, in rods or tubes .
b. covered or impregnated with synthetic resins or similar materials ......

6 p.c. 6 p.c.

Envelopes of all sizes; notepaper, correspondenco oards with their envelopes, in boxes, packets, etc., of card-board or paper ..................... ..

20 p.c.

Travol articles and casos , boxes of paper or cardboard, whether vulcanized or not , not elsewhere spocified or included:
a. Travel articles (trunks, suit-cases, bags,
attache-cases, etc. ) ......... b. Cases ( for jewellery, spectacles , etc. ) ....

20 p.c. 20 p.c.

A228

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

533

5125757

3935

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 436
437 447 442 443
446
447
440 449 450 451
453 454

SCHEDULE II · BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Booksellers ' wares not elsewhere specified or

included:

a. Printed books , illustrated or not

free

5. Nowspapers and periodicals, illustrated or not... free

c. Geographical, nautical and astronomical charts

and cartographic works .....

free

d. Music, printed or engraved

...... free

Illustrated postcards

10 p.c.

Silkworm cocoons

free

Floss silk, floss silk waste, noils and silk waste... free

Silk thread: a. raw silk in skeins (not thrown)
5. thrown silk, not prepared for retail sale : 1. unbleached (not scoured) 2, scoured, bleached , dyod, printed or clouded ...
of Threads of silk, floss silk or loss silk waste, pure or mixed, put up for retail sale: a. of silk
5. of floss silk or of floss silk waste

free 4 p.c. 4 p.c.
15 p.c. 15 p.c.

Ribbons ( .I . ) : a. of velvet or plush 5. other .......
Velvets and plushes (A.I )
Crepes (A.I. ) .....

13 p.c. 13 p.c.
18 p.c.
15 p.c.

Other fabrics not elsewhere specified (¿ , I. )

15 p.c.

Ribbons (A.II ) : a. of velvet or plush b.other

13 p.c. 13 p.c.

Velvets and plushes ( .II ) ... Crêpus (A.II ) Other fabrics not elsewhere specified (A.II)

16 p.c. 16 p.c. 18 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A229

55580

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number
455 456 457 458
460 461 469
470 471 472 473
474 475 476

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS

SECTION A- METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I ( continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Tulles and net fabrics (A.III )
Lace (A.III ) ...
Trimmings (A ,III )
Embroidery (A.III ) : a. chemical (aérienne ) embroidery and embroidery without visible ground ... b. other
Bolting cloth (A ,III ) ..............
Fabrics of floss silk waste (A.III ) .
Ribbons (B.I) : of velvet or plush
5. other ...........
Velvets and plushes ( B , I ) Crêpes (B.I ) ......
Other fabrics not elsewhere specified (B.I ) Ribbons (B.II ) :
a, of velvet or plush ..... 5. other .........
Velvets and plushes (B.II )
Crêpes ( B.II )
Other fabrics not elsewhere specified ( B.II)

15 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.
13 p.o. 18 p.c. 6 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c. 13 p.c. 13 p.c.
13 p.c. 10 p.c. 13 p.o. 18 p.c. 13 p.c.

99999

A230

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS SECTION A METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)



BeNeLux Tariff Item Number
477
478 479 430 431
482 403
485 486 437 408
490 492

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ribbons (B.III ) : a. of velvet or plush ...... 5. other
Velvet and plush (B.III )
Crêpes ( B.III)
Other fabrics not elsewhere specified (B.III)
Ribbons (B,IV) : a. of velvet or plush ............... 5.other ........
Velvet and plushes (B.IV) ,
Cropes (B.IV ) .......
Other fabrics not elsewhere specified (B.IV )
Tulles and net fabrica (B.V)
Lace (B.V) .....
Trimmings (B.V)
Embroideries (B.V) : a. chemical (aérienne) embroidery and embroidery without visible ground ,................... b. other ......
Bolting cloth ( B.V ) ......
Fabrics, ribbons, trimmings and other articles of metal thread or yarn, for garments, furnishings and similar uses: a. Ribbons and trimmings ...... 5. Fabrics and other articles ....

10 p.c. 10 p... 18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.
13 p... 13 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p... 15 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c. 6 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A231

285

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 493 495
ex 500 501
502
504 ex 506 507 509
510 ex 511 512

SCHEDULE II · BELGIUM - LUXENBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Wool in the mass:

ex a. in the yolk .......

free

ex 5. scoured, undyed

free

Animal hair not elsewhere specified , unworked , washed

bleached or dyed, but not curled:

b. Hair of hare, rabbit (other than the Angora

rabbit) , beaver and other like .......

free

c. Coarse hair of bovine and equine animals ( ex-

cluding "horsehair" or " crin" ) , also those of the common goat , and other similar coarse hair .. froe

Wool, carded or corbed ....

2 p.c.

Woollen thread and yarn, carded: a. single: 1, unbleach od
2. bleached, dyed or printed b. twisted:
1. unbleached
2. bleached, dyed or printed

4p.c. 4 p.c.
4 p.c. 4p.c.

Woollon thread and yarn, combed : a. single: 1. unbleached
2. bleached, dyad or printed b. twisted:
1, unbleached 2. bleached, dyed or printed

4p.c. 4 p.c.
4 p.c. 4 p.c.

Thread and yarn of wool or fine hair, mixed

4 p.c.

Thread and yarn of wool , put up for retail sale ..... 10 p.c.

Woollen fabrics , not elsewhere specified : 4. of pure wool E. of mixed wool
Blankets (or coverings) : a. of purc wool ...... b. of mixed wool c. of coarse hair
Wool volvet and phishes .

18 p.c. 18 p.c.
24 p.c. 24 p.C. 20 p.c.
18 p.c.

Carpets and table cloths : a. of wool 5. of coarse hair
Woollen ribbons

24 p.C. 24 p.c.
18 p.c.

A232

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Itom Number 513 514 515
516
517 518
ex 519 ex 520 521 526
527
528

SCHEDULE II · BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Woollen trimmings ........

18 p.c.

Woollen lace, tulles and net fabrics
Woollen embroideries : a. chemical (aérienne ) embroidery and embroidery without visible ground ...... b. other ......

18 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c.

Fabrics and other articles of horsehair pure or mixed, not elsewhere specified :
a, Fabrics
5. other articles

18 p.. 18 p.c.

Fabrics and other articles of coarse hair, not elsewhere specified .....
Raw cotton: a. Linters ..... 5. other

18 p.c.
free free

Waste of cotton, raw

free

Cotton waste, bleached or dyed .

free

Cotton, carded or combod

froe

Cotton thread or yarn put up for retail sale: a. unglazed, put up in skeins or balls without a support or with a support other than bobbins , tubes, spools and the like b. other .....

10 p.c. 15 p.c.

Cotton fabrics , not figured 4. unbleached

(*) : Subject to the right to increase the duty to a maximum of 18 p.c.
b. bleached ........

c. dyed d. printed

9. woven, with threads of different colours

I. mercerised

.........

A glazed, moiré or goffured .........

Cotton fabrics, figured: a. broche .......
5. otherwise figured : 1. unbleached .....
(*) : Subject to the right to increase the duty to a maximum of 18 p.c.
2. not specified

14 p.c. (* )
18 p.c. 13 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c.
14 p.c. (* )
18 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A233

BeNeLux Tariff Itom Numb or 532 533
534 535
538
539 540
541
542

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM · LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A · METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I ( continued)

Description of Products
Cotton blankets
Cotton velvets and plushes, looped pile "terry" cloths, of cotton: a. Velvets and plushes:
2. other ...... b. looped pile " terry" cloths
Cotton carpets, table doths and tapestries: a. Carpets and table cloths 5. Tapestries .................
Cotton ribbons: a.of velvet or plush 5.other: 1. sized thread ..... 2. woven plain ............ 3. woven figured
Cotton trimmings ....
Cotton tulles and not fabrics , plain : 2, unbleached, not dressed 5. dressed, bleached, dyed or other
Cotton tulles and net fabrics, figured : a. Bobbinet-tulle : 1. unbleached, not dressed ..... 2. dressed, bleachod, dyed and other .****
Cotton lace
Cotton embroideries: a. chemical ( aérionne) ambroidery and embroidery without visible ground ...... b. on a ground of tulle or lace C. on a ground not specified .......................................
Flax : a. raw, in stalks , retted or unretted 5. scutched ..... c. combed d. Tow ....
Hemp : a. raw, in stalks , retted or unretted (x)

Rate of Duty
24 p.c.
18 p.o. 18 p.c.
24 p.o. 30 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.
14 p.c. 18 p.o.
18 p.. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.
free free free free
free

5333333

A234

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 544 548
ex 349 552
552
55A
555 556 557

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM LUX MBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METRONOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Vegetable textile materials not clsewhere specified , raw or combed, including tow: ex b. Coconut fibre and phormium tenax
Yarns of other vegetable textile materials not elsewhere specified: a. Yarns of coconut fibre ex b. Yarns of phormium tenax ........
Yarns of flax put up for retail sale
Fabrics of flax, hemp or ramie: a, not figured : 1. unbleached 2. boiled or bleached 3. dyed ....... 4. printed or woven with threads of different colours ....... 1 .. b. figured, damask or broché
Fabrics of flax, hemp or ramic, mixed with other textile materials : a. not figured:
1. unbleached .... 2. boiled or bleached 3. dyed ...... 4. printod or woven with threads of different
colours b. figured, damask or broché
Fabrics of textile materials, ex Chapter 49, not clsewhere specified or includod :
a. Matting (fabrics of raffic) 5. other
Volvot and plushes of flax, hemp, reme, jute or other textile materials ox Chapter 49
Carpets of textile materials ex Chapter 49: a. of jute 5. of coconut fibre .........
Ribbons of textile materials ex Chaptor 49: a. of velvet or plush 5. of sized thread C. other

free
4 p.c. 4p.c. 15 p.c.
18 p.c. 13 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.e. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.
12 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c.
24 p.c. 24 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A235

BONOLALX Tariff Item Number 558 559
560
571
572
573 574 576
577

SCHEDULE II · BELGIUM LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Trinomings: a. of flax, hemp or ramde 5. of other textile materials ex Chapter 49
Lace, tulles and net fabrics , plain or figured, of flax, hemp, rame or other textile materials ex Chapter 49: a. Lace 5. other
Embroidery of flax, hemp, ramic or other textile materials x Chapter 49:
a. chemical (aérienne) embroidery and embroidery without visible ground
b. other
Fabrics specially prepared for bookbinding, drawing and painting: a. Percaline, glazed or sized etc. , for book-
binding, card-board-box making, sheath-making and similar uses b. Tracing or transparent cloths ... C. Canvas prepared for painting
Fabrics and felts covered with a coating having a base of cellulose derivatives or similar substances:
a. artificial leathers (pegamoid and similar products )
b. others....
Waxed cloths and other fabrics or felts, oiled or covered with a coating having an oil basis: C. other:
ex 2, waxed cloths for tables and shelves
Linoleum, lincrusta and similar articles: b. without a layer of linoleum mixture
Elastic fabrics, ribbons and trimmings: a. of silk, pure or mixed E. of artificial silk or artificial textile fibres, pure or mixed c, of wool, pure or mixed d. of other textile materials ........
Rubberod fabrics and felts , not elsewhere specified or included: a, of silk, artificial silk , or artificial textile
fibre, pure or máxod ....... b. of wool, pure or mixed .... C. other .....

18 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.o. 18 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c.
15 p.e. 18 p.c.
18 p.c. 20 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c. 10 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.

573

A236

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 570 530
581

SCHEDULE II - BELCIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Incandescent mantles, of textile materials
Hosiery of silk , pure or mixed:
a. of silk, purc: 1, in the picco ...... 2. Gloves ...... 3. Stockings and socks 4. Underwear
b. of silk, mixed: 1. in the piece 2. Gloves .... 3. Stockings and socks 4. Underwear
Hosiery of artificial silk or artificial textile fibres, pure or mixed : a. of artificial silk or artificial textile fibres,
purc: i. in the piece .... 3. Stockings and socks :
A. of nylon ..... (*) Subject to the right to increase the
rate of duty in the event that reasonably adequate supplies of nylon rarns are not available to the Belgian, Luxemburg and Netherlands stocking and
sock manufacturing industry. B. other ·15...... 4. Underwear
ex 5. Sweaters , Jumpers , pullovers b. of artificial silk or artificial toxtile fibres,
mixod : 1. in the piece 3. Stockings and socks :
h . of nylon ..... (*) Subject to the right to increase the
rate of duty in the event that reas0nably adequate supplies of nylon yarns are not available to the Belgian, Luxembur ; and Netherlands stocking and sock manufacturing industry, B. other 4. Underwear ...... ex 5. Sweaters, Jumpers, pullovers

15 p.c.
18 p.c. 24 p.. 24 p.c. 24 P.C. 13 p.c. 24p.c. 24 p.C. 24 p.c.
13 p.c. 24 p.c. (0)
24 p.C. 24 p.c. 24 p.c.
10 p.c. 24 p.c. (*)
24 p.c. 24 p.c. 24 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -- OCT. 30, 1947

A237

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 582
533
584
585
536

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Hosiery of wool , pure or mixed : a. of pure wool :
1. in the picce 2. Gloves 3. Stockings and socks ..... 4. Underwear
ex 5. Sweaters, jumpers , pullovers b. of mixed wool:
1. in the picce 2. Gloves
3. Stockings and socks ....... 4. Underwear ......
ox 5. Sweaters, jumpers, pullovers

18 p.c. 24 p.c. 24 p.c. 24 p.c. 24 p.c.
18 p.c. 24 p.c. 24 p.c. 24 P.C. 24 p.C.

Hosiory of cotton or other vegetable textile mterials :
a.in the piece 5.Gloves c. Stockings and socks d. Underwear ....
ex e. Sweaters, jumpers, pullovers .........

18 p.c. 24 p.c. 24 p.c. 24 p.c. 24 p.c.

Clothing (outer) for men, not elsewhere specified or included :
4. of fabrics of silk, artificial silk or artificial textile fibres
b. of fabrics of wool ..
c . of fabrics of cotton , flax or other textile materials

24 p.c. 24 p.c.
24 p.c.

Cloting (outer) for women, not elsewhere specified or included : a. of fabrics of silk .....
b. of fabrics of rayon or of artificial textilc materials .....
c. of fabrics of wool d. of fabrics of cotton, flax or other textile
materials
e . of fabrics of metal thread or yarn

24 p.C.
24 p.c. 24 p.c.
24 p.c. 24 p.c.

Clothing (outer) and underwear of rubbered or oiled fabrics or felts and of other special fabrics , ex Chapter 50: a. rubbered or oiled 5. other

24 p.C. 24 p.C.

95347 0- 49 -pt. 5- -16

A238

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 587
580
589
590
591
592 593
594 596

SCHEDULE II

BELCIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS

SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Underwear for men, not elsewhere specified or included : 4. of silk 5. of artificial silk or artificial textile fibres .. c . of wool
d. of cotton, flax or other textile materials ......

24 p.c. 24 p.C. 24 p.c.
24 p.c.

Underwear for women, not elsewhere specified or included : a. of silk
5. of artificial silk or artificial toxtile fibres.. c. of wool
d. of cotton, flax or other textile materials ......

24 P.C. 24 p.c. 24 p.c. 24 p.c.

Table-linen, bcd-linen and toilet-linen: a. of silk, artificial silk or artificial textile
fibrus b. of cotton c. of flax or hemp d. of other textile materials

24 p.. 24 p.c. 24 p.c. 24 p.c.

Handkerchiefs :

a. of silk

5. of artificial silk or artificial textile fibros ,.

c. of flax, hemp or ramie

...........

d. of cotton or other materials ........

24 p.c. 24 p.C. 20 p.c. 20 p.c.

Shawls, scarves , kerchiefs and neckerchiefs : a. of silk
5. of artificial silk or artificial textile fibres .. C. of wool
d. of cotton or other materials

24 p.c. 24 p.C. 24 p.c. 24 p.c.

Neckties : a. of silk 5. of artificial silk or artificial textile fibro .. C. of other textile materials

24 p.C. 20 p.c.
20 p.c.

Corsets, corset-belts , bust-bodices , braces , suspenders and similar articles : a. Corsets, corset -belts , bust-bodices and similar
articles
b. Braces, suspenders and similar articles

24 p.c. 24 p.c.

Packing sacks : b. of cotton fabrics

18 p.c.

Travelling bags , market bags , handbags , cases and other sheath makers ' wares of fabric , felt or hosiery

20 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A239

BeNeLux Tariff Itam Number 597 600 601
602
603
604 607 600
610 611 612
613

SCHEDULE II SECTION

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Sewn or made-up articles of fabric , felt or stuff, not elsewhere specified or included .......

24 p.C.

Common half boots , unlined , and common boots of ox , cow, or horse leather, of natural colour or waxed ... 15 p.c.

Slippers and house footwear: a. of loather
5. of textile materials c. of other materials

24 p.C. 24 p.c. 24 p.C.

Other leather footwear with solus of leather or rubbor: a. Footwear with soles less than 23 cms in length .. 5. Footwear with soles of 23 cms or more in length..

24 p.c. 24 p.c.

Footwear of textile materials or of vegetable materials, not elsewhere specified or included, with soles of leather or rubber:
a. of fabric of silk or artificial silk, pure or mixed , of fabric wovun of metal threads, or of embroidered fabric
b. other ......

24 p.c. 24 p.c.

Footwear of rubber

24 p.c.

Felt shapes for hats : a, of hair- felt or wool- and hair-felt E. of wool-felt ....................

10 p.c. 10 p.c.

Hat-shapes of straw, palm fibre, bark , wood-chip, esparto or other similar materials: a. plaited in a single piece PAI b. other ............
Felt hats for men: a, of hair-felt or wool- and hair-felt b. of wool-felt

12 p.c. 12 p.c.
24 p.c. 24 p.C.

Hats for men, of straw, palm fibre, bark , wood-chip, esparto or other similar materials ....
Other hats for men: a. of silk or artificial silk fabric , pure or mixed b. of leather ....... c. of other materials

20 p.c.
20 p.c. 20 p.c. 20 p.c.

Felt hats for women : a, of hair-felt or wool- and hair- felt b. of wool- folt

20 p.c. 20 p.c.

A240

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

8

BeNeLux Tariff Itom Number 614 615 616
619 ex 620 622 623 625 629
630
632
633

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS

SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I (continued )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Hats for women , of straw, palm-fibre, bark, wood-chip, esparto or other sirdlar materials

20 p..

Hats for women , of textile materials (except felt), and other hats for women not elsewhere specified ..... 20 p.c.

Caps , bonnets and "bcrets" : a . of fabric , folt or fulled hosiery 5. of leather or skin ................
1. of other materials ........... .....

......

20 p.c. 20 p.c. 20 p.c. 20 p.c.

Handles and knobs for walking-sticks, umbrellas and

parasole

15 p.c.

Mountings and parts theroof, not elsewhere specified

or included, for umbrellas, parasole and walkingsticks .....

15 p.c.

Ornamental feathers, dressed or mounted , including throats, heads, wings and skins of birds ........

18 p.c.

Made-up feather articles, not elsewhere specified or

included

24 p.c.

Artificial flowers, foliage and fruits ....

24 p.c

Wares of stone , not elsewhore specified or included: c. polished , decorated or otherwise worked, but not carved :
1. of marble, alabaster and serpentino 2. of granite, porphyry, syenite and similar hard
stones ....................
3. of other stone ...... d. carvod .....

18 p.c.
18 p.c. 13 p.c. 10 p.c.

Slato, worked : a. in slabs or shoots 5. Roofing slates ... c. Slates, whether framed or not, for writing or
drawing d. other slate wares ..

10 p.c. 10 p.c.
10 p.c. 10 p.c.

Grindstonos, wood grindstones for paper malding and similar stones, whether mounted or not : a. of natural stone .......................................... 5. of artificial stone ...............................

10 p.c. 10 p.c.

Grindstones , whetstones and polishing stones of natural stone

10 p..

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A241

88590

BONGLAX Tariff Item Number 634 635 636 638
642
643
650 651
652 655 656 657 659

SCHEDULE II · BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A · METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Grindstones, whetstones and polishing stones of natural or artificial abrasives .........

10 p.c.

Paper and board coated with natural or artificial abrasives ...¶Ã¶*

10 p.c.

Fabrics coated with natural or artificial abrasives.. 10 p.o.

Bricks, tiles, tubes and other manufactures , not elsewhore specified or included , of asphalt , pure or mixed, or of similar products

8 p.c.

Manufactures of asbestos: b. Thread, yarn and cord of asbestos, whether or
not plaited ..... e. Fabrics of asbestos ...
d, other asbestos manufactures, including clothing and footwear ......

6 p.c. 10 p.c.
10 p.c.

Manufactures of mica:
a. Shects or platos of dea, simply cut in a regular shape or for a particular purpose ......
b. Shects formed of plates of mica stuck together, whether or not on paper or tissue ......
c. other mica manufactures

5 p.c.
5 p.c. 10 p.c.

Fireproof bricks, and structural parts (of chamotte,

dinas, magnesito, etc. ) ......

10 p.c.

Other fireproof products (pipes, rotorts, crucibles, etc. ): ex: Plumbago crucibles

10 p.c.

Bricks and slabs for paving, of stoneware, more than 30 mm thick ......

15 p.c.

Paving and facing tiles of stoneware, faience or fine earthenware ......

15 p.c.

Stoves and parts of stoves of ceramic materials ..... 15 p.c.

Fixed appliances, for sanitary or hygienic purposes ,

of coramic materials ......

15 p.o.

Articles of stoneware, not elsewhere specified or included:
ex: Fine stoneware; gin jars; pottery kitchen stoneware ....

15 p.c.

6595

A242

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE II

BOLG UM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS

SECTION A METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I (continued)

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 661
662
666

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Wares of faience or fine earthenware, not elsewhere specified or included : 2. Crockery and household and toilet articles:
2, in more than one colour or ocorated in colours, whether or not gilt , silvered, etc ...
b. others: 1. whito or in one colour: A. for chemical and other technical use ... B. not specified .................... 2. in more than one colour or decorated in colours, whether or not gilt, silverod, etc...

24 p.c. or fr . 10, f.0.61 per kg gros8 weight, at the choice of the importer
10 p.c. 24 p.c.
24 p , c. or fr. 10, f,0.61 per Kg gross weight, at the choice of the importer

Wares of porcelain not elsewhere specified or included : a, Crockery and household and toilet articles:
1. white or in one colour ..... 2. in more than one colour, or decorated in
colours , whether or not gilt, silvered , etc ..
b. others : 1. white or in one colour: for chemical and other technical use....... B. not specified ................................. 2. in more than one colour, or decorated in colours, whether or not gilt , silvered, etc...

24 p.e.
24 p.c. or fr.20, f.1.21 per KG gross weight at the choice of the importer
10 p.c. 24 p.C.
24 p.c. or fr.20, f.1.21 per Kg gross weight at the choise of the importer

Sheet-glass, drawn or blown, unworked (window glass) :

4. uncoloured ..

6 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A243

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 667 670 671
673 675
ex 676 677 678
679

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLIT'N TERRITORIES PART I ( continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Sheet or plate-glass , worked : C. ground or polished on one or both
surfaces ....
Roofing tiles , paving slabs and blocks , and facing tiles , in cast or moulded glass , whether wired or not.....
Carboys , bottles and flasks of unworked glass : a. holding more than 2 litres ..... b. holding more than 25 centilitres and up to
2 litres...... C. holding 25 centilitres or less ....
Illuminating glassware and parts or accessories thereof not elsewhere specified or included ........
Blown or pressed glassware not elsewhere specified or included : a. of blown glass, unworked :
1. in natural , greenish , brownish or blackish colours ........
2. uncoloured , white or half white ............ 3 , coloured throughout , or flashed . b. of pressed glass , unworked : 1. in natural , greenish , brownish or
blackish colours ........ 2. uncoloured , white or half white ..... 3. coloured throughout, or flashed , c. of blown or pressed glass , worked : 1. ground .... 2. polished , cut , engraved, painted,
gilt, silvered or otherwise decorated .. d. combined with other materials ....
Insulating bottles ....
Optical and spectacle glass , unworked ...
Glass for watches and clocks : a.unworked , in balls or segments. b. simply cut . C. worked...
Small glassware (glass beads , artificial precious stones , lustre drops and the like ) ; spun glass and glass wool : a. small glassware :
1. Glass beads ..

15 p.c.
10 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c.
24 p.C. 24 p.C. 24 p.c.
24 P.C. 24 p.c. 24 p.c. 24 p.C. 24 p.C. 24 p.c. 18 p.c. free
free 10 p.c. 10 p.c.
10 p.c.

A244

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 680 682 683
685 690
691
692 697 703
704

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PRT I ( continued )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Articles made of small glassware, whether or not combined with other materials , not elsewhere specified or included ....

18 p.c.

Real pearls, including cultured pearls :

a. unworked...

free

b. worked......

free

Precious and semi -precious stones , natural

or synthetic :

8. unworked ...

free

b. cut or otherwise worked , but not mounted ...

free

c. Articles not elsewhere specified or included .. free

Gold, unworked : in lumps , ingots, cast bars,

powder, scrap, waste and ash .

free

Wares of silver and silver gilt : a. Jewellery ( joaillerie ) and jewelled ornaments (bijouterie ) .. ....... b. Silversmiths ' wares ............
other wares not elsewhere specified or included ......

15 p.e. 15 p.c,
15 p.0.

Wares of gold : a. Jewellery ( joaillerie ) and jewelled ornaments ( jouterie b, Goldsmiths wares .... C. other wares not elsewhere specified or included .
Wares of platinum: a. Jewellery ( joaillerie ) , Jewelled ornaments (bijouterie), goldsmiths ' wares ..... ......
Ferro-alloys , in an unworked state ......

15 p.c. 15 p.. 15 p.c.
15 p.c. free

Sheet and plate of iron or steel, flat , unprocessed :
a, merely forged or hot-rolled , not pickled : 1. not over 1.1 millimeters thick ......
2 , others .

4 p.c. 3 p.c.

Sheet and plate of iron or steel , flat , processed on the surface :
c. Tin plate : 1. over 0.35 millimeters thick.... 2. with a thickness of 0.35 millimeters or less .
(*) Subject to the right to assess a duty which shall not exceed 4 p.c.

4p.c. free (*)

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A245

2

221

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 705 720
234

SCHEDULE II

PELGIUM LUARA BURG NETHERLANDS

SECTION A - METROPOLIT ' N TERRITORIES

PART I ( continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Sheet and plate of iron or steel , other : a. corrugated, channelled , ribbed , nippled,
with bosses or with rolled or pressed patterns ....

4p.c.

Tanks , tuns , vats and other large receptacles , without mechanical device , of sheet iron or steel ... 10 p.c.

Cables, cordage and plaited bands of iron or steel wire....

12 p.o.

Chains, small chains , and components thereof, of iron , steel or malleable cast iron: a. articulated :
1. Roller-chains: ex B. for automotive vehicles ..
ex 2. for automotive vehicles .....

8 p.c. 8 p.c.

Springs of iron or steel : 4. Leaf springs , single or multiple leaf:
1. for automotive vehicles , weighing 20 kg or more each ..........
2. not specified .. b. Wire for chair-seats and bedding. c. others , not elsewhere specified ..

15 p.c. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 8 p.c.

Locks , padlocks and parts thereof, of cast iron, iron, steel or malleable cast iron : a. Locks and padlocks , whether or not with
their keys :
1. Locks , of steel , for automobile bodies , including keys ..
2, thers ..
b. Parts of locks and padlocks ; keys : 1 , Parts of locks and padlocks of malleable cast iron.....
2. Parts of locks and padlocks , other , 3. Keys , unfinished ...... 4. Keys , finished .......

10 p.c. 15 p.c.
3 p.c. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 15 p.c.

Fittings and mountings , not elsewhere specified or included , of cast iron, iron , steel or malleable cast iron, for furniture . deers , windows , Venetian blinds , carriages , sadlery, trunks , boxes and similar articles :
a, simply worked ... b. polished , painted , varnish d , lacquered , ena-
melled , coated or plated with other base metals . c. with parts made of other base metals or of non-
metallic materials ......
d. silvered, gilt , chased or otherwise ornamented ..

15 p.c.
15 p.c.
15 p.c. 15 p.c.

2

A246

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number ex 738 ex 739 745 746 747
748
749 750
752 754
755
756 757

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS

SECTION

METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I (continued )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Strong-bexes of all kinds ......................

Furniture and parts of furniture of steel .....

Vices , cramps , chucks and other tool -holders , bit braces, drill-holders and the like ....

Pliers and pinoers , whether outting or not, wrenches, hand ohisels ...

Files and rasps , including worked blanks : a. blanks... b. Files and rasps, cut or punched ....

Saws and saw-bades : a. Circular saws , ..... 5. Band saws.................... 
C. Saw-blades , straight , unmounted d. Hand-saws and mounted saws ,

......... .

Knives and blades for machines .....

Other cutting tools for working metal , wood and other hard materials by hand and by machinery (such as chisels , milling -cutters , drills , boring augers, plane irons , screw-taps , etc . ) ........
Tools of cast iron , iron , steel or malleable cast iron , not elsewhere specified or included .......
rticles of sheet-iron or sheet-steel not elsewhere specified or included : b. polished , tinned , zinc -coated , lead-coated ,
painted, vamished or lacquered : ex. Milk cans ........ ..................

Articles of iron , steel , cast steel or malleable cast iron , not elsewhere spesified or included : ex b . simply worked , except pellets and balls
for crushing mills....
Copper, unworked : ex a. cast in pigs , pellets , ingots and plates .....
Copper bars and wire: a merely beaten , rolled , hot drawn or cold drawn of any profile : 1. Bars ..... (*) Subject to the right to increase the duty to a maximum of 8 p.c. 2. Wire...

15 p.c. 18 p.. 10 p.. 10 p.c. 8 p.c. 8 p.o.
5 p.c. 5 p.c 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 6 p.o.
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
15 pic.
12 p.. free
2 p.c. (* ) 4 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30 , 1947

A247

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 762
764 770
Th
782 784
790 800
802
803 804 805 806

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS

SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I ( continued )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Unworked pieces of copper: a, cast , stamped or forged , 5. in sheets cut otherwise than at right-angles ,
without other processing...... c. in sheets simply pressed ......

6 p.c.
6 p.c. 6 p.c.

Cable, cordage and plaited bands, of copper wire, not insulated ...

10 p.c.

Nickel , unworked:

ex a. Cast in ingots , plates , cakes , pellets ..... free

b. Shavings, filings and other waste; old

nickel scrap.............

free

luminium, unworked:

a. smelted in lumps , ingots , plates, wire bars , etc. free

Shavings, filings and other waste ; old alu-

minium scrap.................. .

free

Kitchen and other utensils for domestic use, of aluminium, not elsewhere specified or included ......

Aluminium manufactures, not elsewhere specified or included:
ex d. Furniture and parts of furniture....

Zinc, unworked : a. cast 8: Shavings

pigs plates, pellets and dust ...

, and

waste;old zinc scrap.

Metals and alloys, not elsewhere specified or in-

cluded, in an unworked state :

b. Antimony... ex e. Tungsten...........

15 p.c.
15 p.c.
free free
free free

Table knives, non-folding : 2. in one piece , wholly of metal , whether or
not finished ......
b. others.....

18 p.c. 18 p.c.

Knives, non-folding, kitchen, professional and others .................

12 p.c.

Folding knives, pocket pruning-knives and pocketknives .......
Blades for knives: a. unfinished ......

12 p.c. 6 p.c.

Razors and blades thereof :
a. Safety razors and detached parts thereof .............. b. Blades for safety razors, whether finished or
not ......
g. other razors and blades thereof, whether finished or not......

15 p.c. 15 p.c. 12 p.c.

A248

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 809
810
811
81.2 813 818

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITN TERRITORIES PART I ( continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Spoons and forks of all kinds :

a. wholly of metal , in one piece , whether or not finished :

1. of iron or steel ..... 2. of aluminium...........

3. of tin................................ .

4. of other base metals....

.........

5. of base metals , gilt , silvered or plated

with precious metals ....

b. others .....

18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c.

Articles for table use , not elsewhere specified or included, of base metals , with or without fittings or parts of other materials : a, of copper............ b. of nickel .....
C. of aluminium. , d. of other base metals , ..
e. of base metals , gilt , silvered or plated with precious metals .....

18 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.C. 18 p.c.
18 p.c.

Ornamental and fancy articles for the home or office , not elsewhere specified or included , of base metals , with or without accessories or parts of other materials :
a. of iron , cast iron or steel .......
c. of nickel ... d, of aluminium......... ...................................................... e, of other base metals ... 1. of base metals , gilt , silvered or plated with
precious metals .....

18 Fe. 18 p.c. 18 p.C. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c.

Lighting apparatus , lamps of any kind, chandeliers and parts thereof, not elsewhere specified or included, of base metal , with or without accessories or parts of other materials ; ex c . Electric pocket lamps and their containers ...

18 p.c.

Flexible tube and pipe , of base metals, even combined with other materials ......

8 p.c.

Clasps, buckles , buckle-clasps , fasteners, pressbuttons, hooks , eyelets and rivets other than for ornament ww for garments , gloves , footwear, tents , awnings , saddlery articles and travelling requisites , ladies ' bags , pocket -books etc. , and for outfits or equipment of any kind , of base metals : a. of iron, cast iron or steel.... b. of other base metals ....
, of base metals covered wholly or partially with skin , celluloid , vulcanite , bakelite , or other materials .................
d. of base metals , gilt , silvered or plated with precious metals...

6 p.c. 6 p.c.
10 p.c. 10 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT, 30, 1947

A249

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 81.9
920
822 823

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Articles intended for adornment or personal use, and all articles known as " fancy jewellery" , not elsewhore specified or included , of base metals , even with accessories or parts of other materials : 4, of base metals ....
5. of base metals , gilt , silvered or plated with precious metals...

18 p.c. 18 p.c.

Steamboilers ( steam generators ) ; economisers (heatere) , superheaters , steam accumulators: 4. Multitubular boilers .....

6 p.c.

Steam engines without their boilers: a. Piston engines .....

6 p.c

Explosion motors and internal combustion motors : a. Motors for automobiles and cycles , and for aircraft and watercraft, as well as components and separate parts thereof , even in the rough: 2. for automobiles :
A. Components and separate parts , including cylinder blocks equipped with crank shaft and cam shaft ...
B. Motors for agricultural tractors ( 1 ) ( 2 ) .. C. Motors without their carburetion or
fuel feed organs also without electric starting apparatus and other electric
equipment , except spark plugs, and also without air filter ( 1 ) . D. others ( 1 ) ... ex 3. for aircraft , is well as components and separate parts thereof.... b. others: 1. internal combustion turbines... ex 2, not specified , except stationary Heselmotors with a rating of 5000 HP or more.... (1) Including motors with an automatic or semi-
automatic (hydraulic or similar ) change-speed device .
(2) This position only includes motors in respect of which it can be demonstrated , to the satisfaction of the customs officials , that they are really intended for the construction of
agricultural tractors ,

6 p.c. 6 p.c.
8 p.c. 15 p.c. 6 p.c.
6 D.c. 6 p.c.

A250

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 825 827
ex 828 829
830 832 ex 833
83%
835

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS

SECTION . - METROPOLIT N TERRITORIES

PART I ( continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Prime movers driven by mpressed air or by compressed gas , by wind , and the like ....

6 p.c.

Pumpe for liquids : a, Pumps for distributing gasoline and other
liquids ..... b. Centrifugal and other rotary pumps ... c. Piston and other pumps ....
ir pumps and compressors ,...

6 p.c. 6 p.c. 6 p.c.
6 p.c.

Compressed air apparatus for pulverising or dispersing liquid or powdered substances ; spraying apparatus : ex b. automatic coal stoking devices other than
conveyor type and oil burners and parts thereof ..
Calenders of all kinds .....

6 p.c. 6 p.c.

Hydraulic and other presses , not elsewhere specified or included ......

6 p.c.

Machines and apparatus for handling , hoisting, loading, unloading, extriction and excavation , except cranes and other hoisting apparatus of a capacity of 5 tons or more , pulley blocks ; mechanical power shovels with a capacity of 2 cubic meters or less .......

8 p.c.

Agricultural machinery and appliances for working, preparing and cultivating the soil :
a . Fertilizerdistributors , sowing drills and planting machines .......
b. other ( ploughs , cultivators , extirpators , harrows, rollers, etc . ) .....

6 p.c. 6 p.c.

Machinery and appliances for the harv sting of agricultural produce ; agricultura" threshing, shelling and sorting machines : a. Harvesting machinery (mechanical mowing and
haymaking machines, mechanical rakes , reapingmachines, reaping and threshing machines, etc , ) . b. Threshing and shelling machines ..................................... c.gricultural machines and apparatus for sorting seeds and fruits .

6 p.c. 6 p.c.
6 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A251

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 836
837 839
840 842

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I ( continued)

Description of Products
Agricultural machines and appliances not elsewhere specified or included : ex b: Machines for chopping hay, straw,
fodder, whether or not combined with fanning machinery; Root cutters , small mills used exclusively for agricultural purposes for crushing seeds, fruits, potatoes , etc ,; Oil-cake crushers ; Machinery for washing potatoes and beetroot ; Stump removers ; Lawn mowers; Poultry incubators ; Horse-mills generally used in agriculture...
Machines and devices for flour milling...
Machines for the production of cold : 1. Refrigerators : 1. if volume, outside measurement , 18 2 cubic meters or less .. 2. not specified .... b. others...
Machines and apparatus intended to process (assort, wash, mix, crush, mill , mould, etc , ) earth, stone, ores , mineral fuels, bones and other similar hard materials..
Machines for the manufacture of paper pulp, of paper, and of paperboard; machines for processing paper and paperboard:

Rate of Duty
6 p.c. 6 p.c. 12 p.c. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 6 p.c.

A252

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I ( continued)

BeNeLux Tariff Itom Number

Description of Products

842 (continued )

a . Machines for the manufacturing of paper pulp, paper and paperboard ..
b. Machines for working of paper and
paperboard, including bookbinding machines .

843

Machines and apparatus for printing and

the graphic arts :

a. type setting machines ; machines and

apparatus for making cliches and

stereotypes and other auxiliary machines and apparatus .....

b. Presses and machines for printing .

844

Machines and apparatus for the pre-

paration of textile materials, for spinning and twisting; winding machines :

1. Machines and apparatus for the preparation of textile materials : ex: Cards and sets of cards with-

cut clothing; combing machines ...

b. Machines for spinning and twisting .....

Rate of Duty
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
6 p.c. 6 p,c.
6 p.c. 6 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A253



BeNeLux Tariff Item Number C45
8480)

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I ( continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Dity

Looms for weaving and making tulle , lace, hosiery,
embroidery, passementerie ; accessory apparatus and machines for weaving: d. Accessory apparatus and machines for weaving
(dobbies, Jacquard machines , warpers, etc . ) ......

6 p...

Machines and apparatus for the dressing and
finishing of thread, tissues and wares of such materials , not elsewhere specified or included :
ex a. Washing machines for linen and clothes , machines and apparatus for dry cleaning

6 p.c.

Machine tools:
ex b, Vertical boring and turning mills including vertical turret lathes
Jig boring machines Broaching machines Centering machines
Multiple spindle drilling machines , way and special types Deep hole drilling machines , horizontal and vertical Gear hobbing machines
Gear shapers, cutters (including planer type), and generators
Gear finishing machines (including honing , lapping and gear tooth grinding machines) External cylindrical grinding machines:
Plain Universal
Roll grinders Crank shaft grinders All other external cylindrical grinder machines
Internal cylindrical grinding machines : Plain and chucking type All other
Surface grinding machines (including light industrial types ):
Rotary table type, horizontal and vertical Reciprocating table type , horizontal and vertical spindle (including face grinders) All other surface grinding machines (including planer type) Thread grinding machines Honing and lapping machines ( except gear honing and gear lapping machines)

[ See explanatory letter from the Acting Heads of the Netherlands and Belgian Delegations to the Acting Chairman of the United States Delegation, 61 Stat., Pt. 6, p. A2054. ]

95347 0 -49 -pt. 5- ---17

A254

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 848 (continued )
exx 849 351 852 853 054
857

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Polishing and buffing machines (including light industrial types) Turret Lathes (except vertical turret lathes):
Bench type Ram type Saddle type
Automatic chucking lathes: Single spindle Multi-spindle
Automatic between-center lathes :
Single spindle Multi-s indle
Automatic screw (bar) machines Bed type milling machines :
Single spindle Double spindle and special purpose machines Planer type milling machines Profiling machines, duplicators and diesinking machines Rotary cold saws Contour sawing and filing machines (including band saws) Tapping machines Pipe throading machines

6 p...

Machines for packaging merchandise and for labelling bottles and other containers
Typewriters and separate parts themof

6 p.c. & p.c.

Calculating and bookkeeping machincs, cash registers,

and separate parts thereof

....

up.c.

Office machines and apparatus, not elsewhero specified or includod

10 p..

Machines, mechanical apparatus and devices , not else where specified or includod :
a. Machines and mechanical apparatus for household use, weighing 10 kg or less PA ...
ex b. Conveyor type coal stokers, machines and apparatus for rolling mills

12 p.c. 6 p.c.

Shafts, cogged wheels and bars , flywheels , pulleys and other organs and parts of machinery: ex e. Blocks and brasses (bearings and bearing
liners) for automotive vehicles
ex g. Card clothing

6 p.c. 6 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A255

863

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 859
061 863
364 868
369 872 374

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A- METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Electric dynamos , motors and converters , transformers; reactance coils:
a. Dynamos, motors and rotary converters : 1. weighing 10 kg or less each 2, weighing over 10 kg each
b. Transformers and static converters : 1. Transformers:
A, weighing 10 kg or less each ... B. weighing over 10 kg each ..... 2. Staticconverters: A. weighing 10 kg or less each
B. weighing over 10 kg each

12 p.c. 8 p.c.
12 p.c. p.c.
12 p.c. 3 p.c.

Electric accumulators and their plates:
ex a. Alkaline storage batteries and parts thereof, not elsewhere specified or included ..........................
ex b. Plates for alkaline storage batteries ........

10 p.c. 10 p.c.

Electric starting, lighting, signalling and warning apparatus for motor vehicles and for cycles: a. Starting apparatus 5. Lighting apparatus :
1. Generators for automotive vehicles .................... 2, other ..........
c. Signalling, warning and driving apparatus

12 p.c.
12 p.c. 20 p.c. 12 p.c.

Electric ignition apparatus for explosion motors, including spark plugs
Radio-electric apparatus for telegraphy, telephony and television, amplifiers of all sorts : a.Valves, tubes or lamps ..... (*) Subject to the right to increase the duty to a
maximum of 15 p.c. b. Receiving apparatus .... c. Amplifiers ........................ . d. other .......

12 p.c.
12 p.c , (* )
20 p.c. 12 p.c. 12 p.c.

Electric apparatus for telegraphy and telephony: c . Loud speakers , microphones and similar apparatus . 12 p.c.

Apparatus for measuring and registering electric energy; electricity meters :
a. Apparatus for measuring and registering electric energy .................

10 p.c.

Parts, made of carbon or of graphite, even if combined

with metal , for electrical or electro-technical use:

a. weighing 50 kilogrammes or more ...............................

2 p.c.

5. others

6 p.c.

A256

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 875
878
839
890
091 C92 893

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Insulators, whether or not reinforced with base metals : a. of ceramic materials
5. of glass c. of other materials .....

10 p.c. 10 p.c. 10 p.c.

Apparatus for regulating , interrupting, protecting and distributing electric current , as well as all electro-technical articles , components and separate parts of electric machines and apparatus not elsewhere specified or included

10 p.c.

Tractors with explosion, internal combustion or gas motor:
A. Agricultural tractors 5. others ...

6 p.c. 24 p.C.

Automobiles , with body or complete: 8. Passenger cars , other than those for common carrier purposes ........... . b. Intended for common carrier purposes ( coaches and buses) c. Motortrucks and delivery cars d. Electric industrial trucks ( " chariots electriques" ) e, others
Automobile chassis .....

24 p.C.
24 p.c. 24 p.c.
20 p.c. 24 p.c.
24 p.c.

Coachwork for automobiles
a, for passenger transport .. other

24 p.c. 24 p.c.

Components and separate parts of automobiles and of tractors including those in the unworked state, not elsewhere specified or included : a. Components of bodywork :
1. of base metals , unworked or simply worked within the meaning of no . 3 of the general notes pertaining to Section XV ...
2, not specified b. Drive and steuring components and parts :
1. Clutches ......
2. Change- speed transmissions 3. Rear axles and other driving axles .... 4. Steering gear with or without specdchange
lever 5. Brakes .......
6. Clutch-, distributor-, transmission-, and
drive-shafts and half-shafts ; splined (grooved ) shafts, control shafts, gearing 7. not specified ...

6 p.c. 15 p.c.
6 p,c. 6 p.c. 6 p.c.
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
6 p.c. 6 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A257

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 893 (continued)
ex 894 96
901
902 900
909 910 913 914

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES

PART I (continued )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

9. others: 1. Chassis frames , bumpers , protective bars , wheels of pressed sheet iron or steel, rims of iron or of steel, weighing over 30 kilogrammes, and fuel tanks 2 , not specified: A. Bearing ( non drive) axles B. Shock absorbers ex C, others ( except radiators)
Cycles with engines .......

15 p.c.
6 p.c. 6 p.c. 6 p.c.
24 p.c.

Components and separate parts of motor- cycles and cycles:
2. of motor-cycles : ex: Saddles
b. of cycles: 1. Deraillers, change-speed gear hubs, backpedal brake gear .................. . ex 2 , Saddles .....

13 p.c.
10 p.c. 12 p.c.

Airplanes and other heavier than air apparatus : a. without mechanical propulsion (gliders and kites); parachutes
b. with mechanical propulsion (land planes , seaplanes, helicopters, etc. ): 1. intended to be used principally for public transportation in international traffic 2. others

10 p.c.
free 10 p.c.

Components and separate parts of balloons and of airplanes, except motors

6 p.c.

Optical glasses, worked, unmounted: 8. Spectacle glasses and other corrective glasses .. 5. Lenses and prisms for instruments ...... c. Optical mirrors

10 p.c. 10 p.c. 10 p.c.

Mountings for spectacles , eyeglasses and similar articles .....

15 p.c.

Spectacles, eyeglasses and similar articles with mountings .................

15 p.c.

Photographic apparatus, with or without objective, and parts thereof ........

15 p.c.

Motion picture, projection and enlarging apparatus, projectors and their finished parts : a. Motion picture apparatus 5. Projection apparatus , other than motion picture;
enlarging apparatus ........ c. Projectors ( flood and similar lights)

15 p.c.
15 p.c. 15 p.c.

A258

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 919 920 922
923 ax 924 926
934
ex 943
944
945
964

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Apparatus to count revolutions , to measure speed , distance and the like, and their components and separate parts

12 p.c.

Manometers and other measuring apparatus for machines

boilers, furnaces , etc.

10 p.c.

Instruments and apparatus for geodesy, geophysics , meteorology, hydrography, navigation ( 1 ) and astronomy, not elsewhere specified or included
(1) Including radar apparatus ,

10 p.c.

Medical and surgical instruments and apparatus , not elsewhere specified or included .....
Hearing aids

10 p.c. 10 p.c.

Physical, chemical and procision instruments and

apparatus , not clsewhere specified or included :

a. Apparatus for testing materials

5. Recording apparatus

...

C. other

10 p.c. 10 p.c. 10 p.c.

Other clocks , whether or not electrical , including alarm clocks : a. Alarm clocks 5. Control clocks
C. other clocks for standing or suspending .

12 p.c. 12 p.c. 12 p.c.

Dictating and transcribing machines of phonograph type ...................................
Gramophones and separate parts thereof ....... Phonograph pickups

12 p.c. 12 p.c. 18 p.c.

Gramophone records ; plates , cylinders , bands and rolls for mechanically-played instruments and apparatus : a. Gramophone records

12 p.c.

Musical instruments , wind : a. of metal
5. of wood ........ c. of other materials

16 p.c. 13 p.c. 10 p.c.

Articles of animal or vegetable wax or of similar materials :
ex b. Dictating machine cylinders

12 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A259

32226

BeNeLux Tariff Item Number 967
974 975 ex 976 977 979
931
982 984 905

SCHEDULE II · BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Artificial plastic materials made from phenol, urea, phthalic acid , etc. (artificial resins), whether or not with paper or tissue incorporated, and other plastic materials, not elsewhere specified or included :
ex c . Artificial teeth ......
Carriages and vehicles for children .
Dolls of all kinds and parts thereof: ex b. Dolls
Metal toys, mechanical or electric ...
Parlour games .....

15 p.c. 20 p.c.
20 p.c. 20 p.c. 20 p.0 .

Articles and appliances for gymnastics and sports, not clscwhere specified or included: ex: Articles for cricket, tennis , golf and
hockey sport ; skates and roller skates

20 p.c.

Ordinary buttons for wearing apparel and clothing, and ornamental buttons:
a , of coral , tortoiseshell, ivory, amber or jet .... 5. of mother-of-pearl ................
c. of bone, hcm, leather and other animal materials d. of corozo
e. of wood, papier mâché or hardened paper, and other vegetable materials .........
f. of glass , ceramic materials or stone
E. of celluloid and other artificial plastic materials
h. of base metal I. covered with textile materials

15 p.c. 15 p.c. 15 p.c. 15 p.c.
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
15 p.c. 15 p.c. 15 p.c.

Fountain pens and stylographic pens , propelling pencils and their separate parts .......

18 p.c.

Pipes and pipe bowls: c. of wood or briar:
3. other ......

20 p.c.

Cigar and cigarette-holders ; mouth-picces, stems and other detached parts for pipes , or for cigar and cigarette-holders :
b. of horn, hardened rubber and artificial plastic materials : 2, other ...................
c . of wood .............

20 p.c. 20 p.c.

A260

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

BeNeLux
Tariff Item Number

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG · NETHERLANDS SECTION A - METROPOLITAN TERRITORIES PART I (continued )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Note referring to a number of Items.
(x) Free from Netherlands monopoly duty or corresponding Belgian-Luxemburg charge.

END OF SECTION A

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A261

20

Belgian Congo Tariff Item Number 2 6 8 11 12b18 15
20
36 ex 55 56
59
60

Revised Translation by Department of State SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION B. BELGIAN CONGO AND RUANDA - URUNDI This Section is authentic only in the French language .
PART I Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff,

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Butter, margarine and edible fats of all kinds.....
Cereals: ax G. Wheat flour, oatmeal and rolled oats.
Cheese of all kinds ......
Milk of all kinds, fresh or preserved ... Malt....
Fish , shellfish and crustaceans, of all kinds: II. imported otherwise : B, Fish: smoked , dried or salted , not otherwise prepared .......
Foodstuffs of all kinds not specially mentioned : ex, other manufactured sweets , infants food, vermicelli, macaroni, golden syrup......
Rough mineral products: ex B. Plaster........
Candles

free free free free free
free
free 5 p.c. 5 p.c.

Manufactured rubber , viz . , rubber articles not coming under any other Tariff number: 4. rubber footwear, including footwear with
canvas upper and rubber soles ....... ex B. rubber toys ......
Colours, dyes and varnishes of all kinda: B. others....

5 p.c. 8 p.c.
5 p.c.

Usual packings of all kinds : 1, imported empty:
ex B. green glass bottles ..... ex Jars and bottles ......

free 6 p.c.

A262

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION B BELGIAN CONGO ND RUNDA - URUNDI

This Section is authentic only in the French language.

PART I ( continued)

Belgian Congo Tariff Item Number 65
67
68
70 71 72
90

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Musical instruments of all kinds , including phonographs and other talking machines, acsordions and mouth organs, also parts, components and accessories thereof: ax B. Accordions and mouth organs......
Machines, implements and tools specially mentioned, also spare parts and components thereof: C. Refrigerators for preserving foods, with
cold-generating apparatus of any description; motor appliances for conditioning the air in premises, more particularly in regard to its temperature and hygrometric condition........
Machines, implements and tools , other, also spare parts and components thereof : 1. for industrial or agricultural purposes:
ex, Lampe and lanterns....
Small wares and hardware: ex B. Lampe and lanterns; aluminium holloware ;
Metals and special manufactures : ex 2. imitation jewellery.......................
Furniture of all kinds and spare parts thereof, including clock- and watch-maker's wares, except watches and watch fittings : ex. Lamps and lanterns...
Tissues of all kinds , viz ,: tissues of cotton, wool, silk, hemp, jute, flax, ramie, cellulose, etc.: B. Tissues containing natural or artificial silk
in any proportion except blankets containing silk.... NOTE : The lower duty applicable of fr.500 per
100 kg, net is not consolidated , E. Tissues of cotton of all kinds , dyed in the
piece , or wholly or partly manufactured of dyed yarns, partly manufactured of bleached yarns, mercerised in the piece or wholly or partly manufactured of mercerised yarns................... NOTE: The lower duty applicable of fr.500 per
100 kg. net provided for tissues dyed in the piece or wholly or partly manufactured of dyed yarns, is not consolidated ,

12 p..
6 p.e. free 10 p,0. 12 p.. 25 p.. 20 p.. 20 p.c

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A263

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS SECTION B. BELGIAN CONGO ND RUANDA - URUNDI
PART I ( continued)

Belgian Congo Tariff Item Number
90 (continued)
94

Description of Products
H. all other tissues ... 11 other manufactured products not mentioned : ex, Asbestos manufactures ........

Rate of Duty
20 p.ca 5 p.c.

END OF SECTION B.

A264

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES .

This Section is authentic in the English language.only.

PART I

Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff,

NOTE: In the hereunder mentioned "rate of duty" 50 pic.surtax'is included .

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item

Description of Froducts

Rate of Duty

Number

8

Butcher's and horse meat (together with

alaughtered animals , imported whole even disembowelled ) as well as edible parts of these animals :

II. slaughtered animals , other than bovine, imported whole or in halves , fresh; bacon in flitches , fresh; meat and bacon in casks , only salted , even dried
ex III . Hams and smoked bacon ...

18 p.c. 30 p.c.

27

123

ax 9 ex 10 IL 12
13 14
16 32

Game and edible poultry......
Fish , n.s.m. , salted , dried or smoked , but not otherwise preserved , not including eggs, fishbones, fish stomachs and shark fins .......
Milk, cream, skimmed milk, curdled milk, whey, butter milk, fresh or preserved , milk and cream in blocks, or in powder form or condensed, even added to sugar; yoghourt:
ex I , Cream.. II, all other products ...
Butter : I, refrigerated (butter which has been preserved
from deterioration during transport by means of refrigeration ) ... II.other.....
All kinds of cheese, even artificial : I. Dessert cheese including without excluding
other cheese all kinds of cheese in containers of glass, earthenware and porcelain, and cheese which, being provided with an envelope of metal foil , cellophane, gelatine , paper or other similar substances , weighs 600 grammes or less per piece including immediate packing.... II. Cheese not included in No. I .....
Honey : I. packaged ... II. imported otherwise ......
Hops , hop-cones and lupulin: I. packaged ..... Il.imported otherwise .

30 p.c.
30 p.c.
30 p.c. 18 p.c.
30 p.c. 18 p.c.
30 p.c. 18 p.c. 30 p.c. 16 p.. 18 p.c. 9 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A265

88

Netherlanda Indies Tariff Item Number
34
ex 36 39
ex 42 ex 44 45
ex 47 II exxx 48 ex 58 59 I 60

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES . PART I (Continued )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Edible fruits , fresh : II . Grapes , apples , pears , apricots , peaches, plums, cherries , strawberries , oranges , lemons , dates , figs and others , n.s.m........
Dried fruits , n.s.m. , except dates .....
Cardomom and other kinds of amomums ; cinnamon; cinnamon flowers or buds ; cassia ( cassia lignea) } cassia fruit; ginger; cloves ; clove stems ; mace; nutmeg (cven shelled ) ; curcuma; kemiri nuts ; orange peel ; pimento ( Jamaica-pepper ); black and white pepper ; paprika, Spanish pepper (lombok), Cayenne pepper; saffron ; vanilla ; parsley; laurel leaves ; thyme ; and other spices, n.s.m. , fresh or dried , even ground or pulverised : II. imported otherwise than in metal , car-
thenware, porcelain or glass packing: a. Cloves and clove stems ..... b. other articles ....
Flour, wheat ; groats (grits ) and semolina ..
Bran and pollard.....

30 p.c. 30 p.c.
9 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c. 9 p.c.

Flour, meal and semolina other than that of cereals, even of malt, as well as of oleaginous seeds , n.8.m.: I. for consumption, such as pea, bean and
lentil flour, flour and meal of bananas , of chestnuts , etc ...... II . other : a. packaged ....... b. imported otherwise ..
"Maizena" (cornstarch) .....

18 p.c.
18 p.c. 9 p.c.
18 p.c.

Tapioca flour, arrowroot and other similar products of feculent roots, including sngo flour; all these if packed for retail sale ...
Wattle bark .

18 p.c. free

Pine rosin (gum and wood rosin ) except the

rosin mentioned in Item 898 II .....

free

Raw and refined camphor; artifioial camphor and mixtures of naphtaline and camphor : I. packaged or in tablet form,, II. imported otherwise:
a. raw camphor ..... b. other articles classified under this Item ...

18 p.c.
free 9 p.c.

A266

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
ex 62 II ex 63
ex 67 ex 68 ex 70 ex 72 ex 78 cx 90 ex 93
ex 96 ex 97 II
ex 101 ex 103 I
ex 107 ex 110
X 118
121 I ax 133 ex 135

SCHEDULE II · BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES . PART I ( Continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Raw raffia fibres , not packaged .................. ..
Plant barks , not packaged , to be used as bindings and for the manufacture of cordage , such as raffia barks ...
Lard and edible beef and mutton fats......
Inedible beef and mutton fats , unpackaged .....
Chinese wood oil ....
Oleic acid and stearic acid, unpackaged .... Canned fish .
Chocolatc ...
Oatmeal (rolled oats ) , oat flakes , coormn flakes , wheat flakes , rice flakes .... Biscuits and puddings ......
Fruits, in water, syrup or wine, canned or otherwise packaged ......
sparagus and artichokes ....
Vegetables , preserved (otherwise than by drying), n.s.m. , in hottles and glass jars or other airtight containers , weighing per first or immediate packaging, 10 kilograms gross or less ....
Pudding powders ......
Gourmet powder (ajinomoto and other monosodium glutamate preparations ) ......
Ingredients in liquid or dry form, n.s.m. (such as liquid concentrates , powders , crystals and tablets ) for industrial manufacture of mineral waters (not for medicinal use ) , ginger beer, lemonades and similar beverages , not packaged .......
Leaf tobacco . Coal ....
Asphalt , derived from petroleum.....

free
free 18 p.c. 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 30 p.c. 30 p.c. 18 p.c. 30 p.c. 30 p.c. 30 p.c.
30 p.. 30 p.c. 30 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.c. free 9 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A267

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
ex 140
142
ex 143 I ex 143 II ex 146 148 153
164 ex 165 ex 167 IIa

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES . PART I (Continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Mineral lubricating oils, even mixed with oils of animal or vegetable origin, with
grease or with soap: I. in containers of 25 litres or less .... II. in larger containers ..

18 p.c. 9 p.e.

Carbolic acid , creosote oil , carbolineum , and other similar products derived from coal tar and used as disinfectants or for impregnating wood, n.s.m.; creoline, lysol and similar products classified under this number: ex II. not packaged nor in tabletform
(except creosote oil , carbolineum and other similar products derived from coal tar, for spreading over or impregnating wood and similar purposes, in first or immediate packing weighing gross 30 kilograms or less ) .....
Hard grease, packaged or in tablet form.......
Petrolatum and hard grease, not packaged nor in tablet form....................

9 p.c 18 p.c.
9 p.ca

Sulphur, not packaged..
Calcium carbide : I. for lighting purposes. II. other.........

9 p.c.
18 p.c. free

Acids , salts, also compounds of metalloids together, or with metals , n.s.m.: ex I. packaged or in tablet form:
Ammonium chloride , sodium cyanide and waterglass ....... ex II.imported otherwise : Ammonium chloride , sodium cyanide , waterglass, soda ash, calcined soda and caus tic soda, silicon carbide , boron carbide, silica-gel and tetra-aethyl lead .....
Casein, loose , in sacks , casks or cases , per package weighing 25 kilogs net or more......
Bakelite, galalith and the like, in blocks , raw sheets or lumps ........ 
Bacteriological cultures ..

18 p.c.
9 p.c. free
9 p.c. 9 p.c.

A268

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
ex 167 IIb ex 168 ex 169 I
ex 169 II
ex 170 172
ex 173 II
ex 175 ex 180
ex 181 II-1
ex 181 II , 2, b
184

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES ,

P'RT I ( Continued )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Fish-liver oil capsules, penicillin , menthol , curative serums and vaccines ...
Vitamin oil in capsules ......
Special preparations , n.s.m. , packaged or in tablet form, for disinfection or for protection against or extermination of insects ......
Special preparations , n.s.m. , not packaged nor in tablet form, for disinfection or for protection against or extermination of insects , except insecticides for household use ; n.s.m. latex (rubber ) coagulants , cleaning compounds for piping and organic solvents ...
Synthetic resins, in pieces , scales, clots or powder.
Sensitized papers and glass plates ( dry plates ) as well as other sensitized articles , n.s.m., used for taking photographs and for the printing of photographs ...
Exposed motion picture sound films: a. over 30 millimeter in width ...........
b. other....
Wattle extract ......
Writing and drawing chalk , coloured chalk , pencils , of all kinds , except slate-pencils ; leads for propelling pencils ; charcoal ..
Wet coloring products (except minium and zinc white) : a . weighing 30 kilograms gross or less per
first or immediate packaging.. b. imported otherwise ....
Zinc white, and carbon black, dry, not packaged nor in tablet form......
Volatile oils , n.s.m.: II . all other articles classified under this number, in so far as they are not regarded as "medicines" by reason of their being put up in capsule form: b. not packaged nor in tablet form...

18 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c.
9 p.c. 9 p.o.
30 p.c. f.30.- per 100 lineal meters 30 p.c. free
18 p.c.
18 p.c. 9 p.c. 9 p.c.
18 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A269

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM UXEMBURG NETHERLANDS

SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES

PART I Continued)

Netherlands Indies Tariff Iten Number ex 187 ex 18
189 195

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Pormades , eyebrow pencils , lipsticks , skin and massage creams , rice powder, depilatories
and nail lacquers ; similar toilet preparations; also bath salts ....

Toilet soap and scented soap:

I. Shaving soap; soap cream, soap in paste,

powder, scales , flakes and the like ,

soap in sheets or in liquid form :

2. Shaving soap in cylindrical pieces , each piece not , directly or other-

wise , wholly or partly, wrapped in

cellophane , gelatine or a similar

substance , in a sheet of metal,

in paper covered with metal , in

pleated paper or in paper bearing

relief ornaments , nor packed in a

soap-box, -tube or similar article ,

intended for use by the purchaser..

liquid soap, not packed for retail sale..

C. other. II . other toilet and scented soap:
a. in luxury packing:

1. in a coloured paper or in a paper bearing printed designs , but not

pleated , nor bearing relief or-

naments or covered with metal ......

2. other.............. .

14

b. in other packing , with the exception of soap, packed in earthenware , porcelain,

glass , celluloid or other plastic material or in a soapbox, -tube or similar

article, intended for use by the purchaser,.

Other soaps , as well as products used for washing, n.s.m. , such as Lux, Persil , etc , and soap substitutes :
I. weighing 5 kilogs . or less gross per immediate packing , or in bars , blocks , tablets or in any other more or less regular form......

Polishing wax, scouring ointment , leather cream, boot polish , polishing paste , cleaning paste and other substances composed of wax, ceresin, vaseline , grease , oil , stearin, palmitin , soap and the like , used to preserve , impregnate, scour, smooth, polish, rub and clean furni-
ture, metals . parquet flooring, marble , leatherwork, linoleum, etc .: I, packaged or in tablet form..

30 p.c.
18 p.c. 18 p.C. 30 p.c. 18 p.c. 30 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c.

95347 0-49 - pt. 5----- 18

A 270

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
201 ex 203 206 ex 208 ex 209 II 210
211
215

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM LUXEMBURG · NETHERLANDS SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES, PART I (Continued )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Glues , and gums , prepared, n.s.m. , and other n.s.m. prepared adhesives: I. packaged or in tablet form.....
II. imported otherwise ...........
Dynamite, explosive gelatine and detonators ..........
Matches ... NOTE : no excise .
Fuses, other than safety fuses ......
Ammonium sulphate and raw natural phosphated lime , not packaged ....
Unprepared hides or skins for making leather (green, salted , limed or dried hides or skins for making leather ) even freed from the hair and split, but not subsequently prepared, as well as parts of these hides or skins , such as heads, claws , flanks and bellies : I. Reptile- and fish skins ................ II. other....
Leather (leather hides or skins simply tanned in any way, even subsequently worked , greased, dyed , etc. ): I. Patent leather of all kinds ; leather finished
in gold , silver, aluminium or like effects ; leather printed , embossed , ornamented or decorated in any manner or to any extent and leather by any other process (in addition to tanning) made into fancy leather; calf skins , cow hides and the like , tanned in the hair, intended for use as shoe vamps or for the manufacture of trunkmakers ' articles and the like ; chamois leather; wash leather; leather for gloves ; morocco leather; suède ; reptile leather; fish leather; Russian leather and imitations thereof; parchment ; transparant leather and drumvellums ; leather chagreened, crisped or finished in a similar manner, such as chagreen leather, imitation reptile and imitation fish leather, etc ... II. other....
Leather apparel , combined with cloth or not; leggings, leg and trouser protectors , gaiters and the like are included in this number, as well as gloves which are entirely or principally made of leather..

18 p.c. 9 p.c. 9 p.c. ... 18 p.c. free
9 p.c. free
18 p.c. 9 D.C. 30 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A271

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
ex 217 223 226 233
ex 234
ex 235 I 241
296 298

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES .

PART 1 (Continued )

Description of Products

Trunks, suit-cases , attaché-cases , school-
bags and hatboxes , entirely or chiefly made of leather...........

Raw or unfinished furskins : ex: Rabbit and opossum...

Rubber solutions (rubber cement , etc. ) : I, packaged ...... II. imported otherwise ..

Pipe, tube, hose of rubber ; of rubber with inlay

or base of fabrics or other products of textile

substances; of fabrics with an outer layer of

rubber; also all these when overplaited or wound

with spun vegetable fiber and whether or not

combined with base metals (for example, provi-

ded with armoring) , n.s.m.:

I. with an internal diameter of 70 milli-

meters or less ..... II. other.......

.........

Rubber transmission and conveyor belts; rubber in sheets in combination with fabrics or pro-
vided with an inlay of metal ( packing material ) ; also packings and packing cord of rubber (including hard rubber) , whether or not combined with other materials...

Automobile tires: casings and inner tubes; outer Cres for cycles ...................

Rubber heels , heel-pieces , soles and similar articles for footwear: I. heel-pieces ........... II.other articles classified under this Item..
Floor mats of vegetable plaiting material ,

Fancy articles , such as ladies ' handbags , cigar and cigarette cases , work baskets , flower baskets, key-baskets , wine-pouring and table baskets, lamp shades , etc. furniture covers and small mats, egg- and tea-cosies and similar articles of vegetable plaiting material; lamps made from these plaiting materials , picnic
baskets, with or without sets , and drinking straws...

Rate of Duty
30 p.c. 9 p.c. 18 p.c. 9 p.c.
18 p.c. 9 p.c.
9 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c. 9 p.c. 30 p.c.
30 p.c.

A272

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
299
ex 302
ex 303 304 ex 305 307
308 ax 315 ex 331 ex 346

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM LUXEMBURG · NETHERLANDS SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES. PART I (Continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Plaited articles of vegetable plaiting materials, 1.8.E.: I. ordinary, i.e. not combined with other
materials, or simply combined with wood or iron; neither painted , mordanted, varnished nor lacquered , without paintings, neither poker-worked, gilded, silvered , bronzed nor plaited in several colours ... II. other.....

18 p.c. 30 p.c.

Wood cardboard, brown cardboard, straw, peat ,
felt and other rough cardboard , including glos-
sing cardboard, cloth-pressing glossboard and similar cardboard, compact , elastic and glossed :
1. weighing more than 200 grammes per square meter.........................................·
2. other.....................

9 p.c. 18 p.c.

Asphalt roofing paperboard .....

9 p.c.

Celotex, Wenjacit and similar paper pulp products, used for covering the walls of dwelling-houses and for other building purposes, not decorated......

18 p.c.

Paper and paperboard, n, s, m,, prepared for use as packing....

9 p.c.

Wrapping paper, n.s.m. , whether or not impregnated or coated with paraffin, wax, varnish, pitch, tar, and the like and whether or not reinforced with
vegetable fabrics , yarn or cord, metal wire or metal cloth; old newspapers and periodicals, maculated paper and the like , suitable for use as wrapping paper, as well as paper wool and corrugated board suitable for packing.....

18 p.c.

Newsprint paper, common ......

9 p.c.

Writing, copying, carbon and stencil paper, n.s.m. ,.. 18 p.c.

Packing washers of paper, paperboard or paper pulp......
Tissues and other goods wholly or partly composed of silk or of artificial silk, n.s.m.: I. fabrice for curtains, hangings , carpets ,
passage-carpets and for clothing, as well as all other fabrics ..

9 p.c. 30 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -- OCT . 30, 1947

A273

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
352
356
ex 360 II
ex 360 VI ex 379 383

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS
SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES,
PART I (Continued)
Description of Products
Tissues and other wares of wool , as well as other products mentioned in Item 349, even combined together or with other fibres , except silk and artificial silk , n.s.m.:
II. all other fabrics : a. curtain, furnishing , carpet and passagecarpet fabrics , including billiard cloths, as well as covering and decorating stuffs, including fabrics which are figured, decorated in a special manner, woven in several colours and other fabrics of two or more coulours, n.s ......
Tissues and other articles, of cotton , n.8.m.: I. fabrics classified under one or more of the following letters : b. velvet and plush , as well as velvety and plushy fabrics , with the exception of Turkish towelling , plain , bleached or not......
Close woven tissues not classified in I, of linen, or half-linen , unribbed , not figured or decorated in a special manner : a. hopsack , twill or satin weave fabrics,
bleached .................. b. other, bleached or not , woven in several
colours, dyed or printed ...
Floor mats and carpets of coconut fibre ......
Fabrics and other wares of textile fibres , not manufactured to measure , prepared for use as packing..
All kinds of sail cloth ( " zeildoek " , " karldoek" , "scheerdoek" ) , cloth for tarpaulin and other thick cloths made from natural vegetable textile fibres; unbleached , bleached or of one single colour; without pile , neither figured nor otherwise decorated and not hain- clothe for carpets , passage -carpets or other floor coverings ; neither combined , impregnated, covered , coated nor glued with foreign substances , unless their technical possibilities are thus increased and provided that they do not thereby fall under any other Item of the tariff ; weighing 600 grams or more per square meter..

Rate of Duty
30 p.c. 30 p.c. 30 p.c. 18 p.c. 30 p.c. 9 p.c.
9 p.c.

A274

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES .

PART I ( Continued )

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
385 I a ex 391 393
ex 396 II ex 401 I ) ex 401 IIa) 418
429 420 ex 425 II 426 I
ex 455 I

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Fire hose

9'p.c.

Packing washers and disks of textile material ...... 9 p.c.

Socks and stockings :
I. exclusively of cotton , in one single colour, neither decorated nor ornamented.........
II. other,............................

18 p.c. 30 p.c.

Outerwear, n.s.m. , other, for women, girls and infants....

30 p.c.

Pocket handkerchiefs , colour woven of cotton, linen or half linen with a surface of 400 square inches or less ...

30 p.c.

Footwear of cloth , felt , list , imitation leather (oilcloth) , pegamoid and the like or of other textile materials : I. Sail cloth footwear or footwear made of
similar rough tissues of natural vegetable fibres, unbleached , bleached or dyed, not having rubber or chromed leather soles, nor heels higher than 2 centimeters , not including the thickness of the sole ........ II . other:
a. Footwear made of tissues referred to in subsection I , with rubber soles , not having heels or having low heels (gymnastic shoes ) .............................
b. all other...............................................................

18 p.c.
18 p.c. 30 p.c.

Leather or fur footwear, without taking into consideration the composition of the soles , n.s.m.......
Rubber footwear, even lined with tissues , n , s , .............. Fezs ...

30 p.c. 30 p.c. 30 p.c.

Umbrellas and parasols, sunshades other than garden sunshades , also en-tout-cas ; all these arti-
cles in so far as they have a simple bamboo stick and are covered with paper which is not ornamented with paintings , figures, ornaments, borders , etc.....

18 p.c.

'sbestos paper and other manufactures of asbestos

used as packing material , including those combi-

ned with other fibres or with graphite, rubber,

copper or lead....

...

9 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A275

SCHEDULE II BELGIUM LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS SECTION C NETHERLANDS INDIES PART I (Continued )

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

477

Porcelain, even combined with other wares ,

1.8.m.

I - white not combined with wares subject
to a duty of 20 % ad valorem, nor ornamented, e.g. not having decorations in relief or ornaments of the same kind ( except racks and pegs for rooks (for olothes eto . ) and articles such as soap dishes , intended to be fixed by plastering into or against walls of bathrooms, lavatories etc. )

II- other

Rate of Duty
18 p.o. 30 p.o.

A276

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
ex 461 II 462 469
480
ex 525
ex 526

SCHED LE II - BELGIUM LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION C. NETHERL NDS INDIES . PRT I (Continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Multi-coloured pottery tiles and slabs for pavements and paving.......

Wall-facing tiles and slabs , as well as furniture tiles, of pottery or porcelain:
I, single-coloured, not having decorations in relief nor ornaments of the same kind.................
II . other... .........

Toilet basins (fixed lavatories ) , lavatory basins
for running water and bases, pedestals , brackets and the like for same; hanging wash basins; baths, hip-baths , bidets , bidet basins, commode , W.C. pans , urinals, sinks ; water cisterns for W.C. , urinals or sink installations ; slop pails and
similar sanitary articles , as well as toilet tables , mirror frames , washstand sets and bedside table sets , also parts of such sets and similar articles all these articles made of pottery or of porcelain : I. Baths , hip-baths , bidets , bidet basins ,
slop pails , toilet tables , mirror frames, fixed lavatories on pedestal and wall-basins on pedestal .... II. other articles classified under this Item:
a, white ..
5. other.....

Sheet glass (plate glass , window glass , as well as other glass in sheets or plates ) , regardless of the manufacturing process or shape , n.s.m.: I. uncoloured or coloured, as well as dulled,
polished , bent , streaked ( channelled ) and reinforced (cast on wire or on plaited
wirework) or not, but neither gilded , sil-
vered, painted nor having an ornamental grinding nor having designs thereon .......

Iron and steel in plates or sheets , forged , rolled,

beaten, pressed or drawn , including band iron, n.s.m.:

ex I. unworked or simply galvanized , leaded

or tinned ( not including band iron

for purposes of packing , gangways

and gutter iron ) . II. other...

.......

Iron wire , n.s.m. , unfinished ..

30 p.c. 18 p.c. 30 p.c.
30 p.c. 18 p.c. 30 p.c.
18 p.c.
free 18 p.c. 9 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A277



Fetherlands Indies fartif Itan Number
536
937 330
899 L
541 552 565
568

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES .

PT I (Continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Plates which are perforated , hollowed , or worked in another way, even cast , clearly intended for technical use in industrial enterprise , even destined to be used as parts of working implements, such as pulping, sorting, straining, draining and sifting plates ......
Conveying and discharging ducts , even irrigation pipes, n.s.m....
Pipes and tubes , n.s.m. , which by reason of their characteristics are ordinarily used for technical purposes (the conduction of vapors , gases or liquids, the heating or cooling of substances and the like) , whether or not cut to measure , and whether or not threaded or provided with sleeve couplings, flanges , supports, and the like , also if imported in spiral or other bent form or in the form of half pipe .....
Tubular fittings for the mutual connection of the pipes specified in Item No. 538 , such as cape , bends , elbows , reducer sockets and reducers , threaded reducers , double threaded and reducer nipples, tees , crosses and the like .......
Drill pipe (drill rods) and tubular fittings ; also pipe for " Norton" pumps ; all these whether or not with screw-thread , .....
Nails and tacks , n.s.m.: II. other, including washers and fixing plates
therefor, in so far as they are not dutiable under Item 534...
Instruments wholly or princimlly made of iron: I, Implements included in the following list ,
with the exception of those dutiable under another number: a. Spades, tjangkols , patjols , patjol picks
and forks , rakes , weeding hooks , scythes, sickles, arits , dung - ,hay -, and alangalang forks , borers , incision chisels for rubber, pruning saws and similar implements used for agricultural purposes ...... II.Utensils of iron or steel , or principally of iron or steel , other, n.s.m.....
Ordinary pins and safety pins ; ordinary hairpins....

9 p.c. 9 p.c.
9 p.c. 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 9 p.c.
9 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.C.

A278

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Netherlanda Indies Tariff Item Number
590 I
ex 593 ex 594 595
627
628
629 630

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES .

PART I (Continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Iron or steel furniture , n.s.m.: a. Document cabinets ; card index cabinets
and boxes ; document and book shelves; cabinets , supports and the like, for the systematic storing of stocks of goods, or of professional articles , or for displaying goods .... b. working, sorting or finishing tables , in so far as they may be considered as auxiliaries for industrial operations...
Gasoline and kerosine cooking apparatus and parts thereof ......
Kitchen utensils , enamelled ......
Canteens and boiling pots ; n.s.m. dishes, service plates, cups and saucers, drinking mugs , coffee pots , teapots and finger bowls; water, milk and petroleum cans ; tea caddies , sugar boxes and similar boxes ; household pails and basins - all these articles , even with wooden knobs , handles or the like : ex I. finished solely by enamelling......
Aluminium, raw, in blocks , bars , ingots or cast plates, or granulated ; turnings , parings and similar waste from aluminium working; scrap aluminium (aluminium wares which , owing to wear, breakage or the like , are unfit for further use except as raw material ) .....
Aluminium powder...

Thermit and other mixtures of aluminium powier or granulated aluminium with oxides of other metals, used for the same purposes as Thermit .......

Aluminium in bars ( even profiled ) , plates or sheets,

forged, rolled , flattened , pressed or drawn, as

well as aluminium in strips , n.s.m.:

ex I. unworked ( except aluminium in strips

weighing 300 grammes or less per square

meter)..

II, worked.

........

18 p.c. 9 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c.
free Dutiable as colouring and dyeing materials, n.8.m. (Item 181 )
9 p.c.
free 18 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A279

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
631 632
639 696
635
636
637 638
639

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES . PRT I ( Continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

^luminium in sheets ( sheets or leaves of aluminium weighing 300 grammes or less per square meter), even cut into pieces , n.s.m......
Aluminium wire , as well as aluminium wire cables, cordage and similar products in cord form, as well as aluminium pipes and tubes and corresponding accessories in tubular form...
Tacks, nails, bolts, nuts and other fasteners , n.s.m, of aluminium...
Pieces for the equipment of factories and other industrial establishments , accessories for industrial working implements , industrial working implements which are not operated mechanically, as well as tools all these articles having characteristics corresponding to those of similar articles of iron, for which Chapter 63 provides a duty of 6% , n.8.m.....
Transporting cans : I. not covered with metal or otherwise , provided
with a lid , a handle or ears, having a capacity of 10 litres or more ...... .......................................... II. other....
Receptacles of aluminium for transporting or coagulating latex ( rubber) , n.s.m, as well as rubber cups - all these articles in so far as their characteristics satisfy the authorities that there is no reason for considering them as being destined for other uses.....
Capsules, tubes, cases and similar articles for stopping bottles , packing paint, soap and the like..
Kitchen utensils, such as saucepans , frying pans and dishes, kettles, milk boilers , pudding moulds and baking moulds , egg-slicers , lemon squeezers , etc. even combined with wood or other common materials ; kitchen heaters...
Chests ..

18 p.c.
Dutiable a similar articles of copper Dutiable as similar articles of iron
9 p.c.
9 p.c. 18 p.c.
9 p.c. 18 p.c.
18 p.c. 30 p.c.

A280

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
640
ex 641 643
ex 652 672
ex 687 II 694 ex 698 71 ex 713

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS
SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES .
PART I (Continued)
Description of Products
Aludnium objects and articles, even combined with other wares, n.8 m,:
I. Articles for personal , household or office use : unfinished or solely polished and with the exception of articles combined with wares subject to a duty of 30 p.c. ad valorem................... b. other...........
II. Articles for other uses: 4, decorated or ornamented, or else covered or coated with precious metals, or combined with wares subject to a duty of 30 p.c. ad valorem.. b, other......
Lead, raw, in blocks , lumps or the like......
Lead in sheets ( sheets or leaves of lead, even tinned , weighing 500 grammes or less per square meter) , even cut into pieces , n.s.m.: I. unworked, weighing more than 450 grammes per
square meter .... II. other........... .
Zinc, raw, in blocks or lumps .
Cutlery: V. Shaving instruments and safety razors:
4, nmeetiatlhse.r.c.o....v...e...r...e...d......n...o...r plated with precious b. other................... VI, Safety razor blades ...
Lampe and lanterne , n.s.m. , which are not for lighting by gas or electricity ...
Metal wool packing and other n.s.m , metallic packing ....
Pen-niba, n.s.m..
Steam boilers (steam generators ) and gas generators for motive power, n  s.m....... ......
Steam engines and steam turbines..

Rate of Duty
18 p.c. 30 p.c.
30. p.c. 18 p.c. free
free 18 p.c. free
18 p.c. 30 p.c. 18 p.c. 18 p.c. 9 p.c. 18 p.C. 9 p.C. 9 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A281

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
724
ex 716 ex 717 ex 718

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES , PART I (Continued )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Propelling motors (including auxiliary motors) for conveyances, as well as components and replacement parts thereof and accessories therefor
(except electric motors and other electrical articles, such as ignition magnetos and spark
plugs): ex I. automobile motore : a, Diesel motors ................... b. other...................... II. other motors classified under this Item:
ex a. for railway and tramway locomotives .. 5. other: 1. for airplanes..... 2, for tractors and similar tractive
mechanisms , not running on rails.. 3. other motors ..... III. components and replacement parts for the motors specified in this Item, as well as carburetors, vacuum tanks , oil filters, gasoline tanks , gas generators and other similar articles belonging to the equipment of the specified motors and separate parts tehreof: ex a, suitable for use with automobile motors :
1. clearly belonging to diesel motors..........................................
2. other............................
ex b. other, clearly belonging to motors for railway and tramway locomotives..

18 p.c. 30 p.c. free free 9 p.o. 18 p..
18 p.c. 30 p.. free

g. all other articles: 1. for airplane motors ............ 2. for motors for tractors and similar tractive mechanisms, not running on rails... 3. other....

frea
9 p.c. 18 p.c.

Steam tractors ....

9 p.c.

Road rollers and machines for road construction, operated by steam, kerosine , gasoline , oil , alcohol, etc .....

9 p.c.

Pumps and other implements and appliances for raising liquids, mechanically operated, n.s.m....

9 p.c.

A282

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
ax 723 II
724
ex 728 ex 736 739

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES . PART I (Continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Hoisting and lifting apparatus and machines , implements and appliances for the displacement of loads , not designed to be operated solely by human or animal power, except appliances which are manifestly parts of, or belong to ships.......

9 p.c.

Weighing implements, except analytic scales : II. automatic person-weighing scales and other
appliances for weighing persons , including infant scales, ..
III . Letter scales , composed of or covered with precious metals , nickel or metals assessed
as such (new silver, alpaca, etc. ) , or combined with substances other than metals , such as glass , or not registering more than 100 grams ...
IV . other, such as weigh bridges , decimal , centesimal , counter , table and spring scales, steel yards , parcel weighers , etc ,: a , with le88.a.we.i.gh.ing capacity of 1000 kg or .......... b. other........
V. weights for the above specified weighing implements, even if in blocks .............

30 p.e.
30 p.c.
18 p... 9 p.. 18 p..

Apparatus and instruments, n.s.m,, for tea factories and rubber factories .....

9 p...

Machines, apparatus and appliances , n.s.m. , to be used for the production of petroleum and for the working of mines..

9 p.c.

Evaporating and refrigerating apparatus ( " Koellichamen" ) , cooking and melting vats, boilers for raw materiale ( " ruwketels " ) and brewers ' boilers , distilling, extracting, diffusing and rectifying apparatus, as well as other similar devices and apparatus, n.s.m. , for subjecting materials to a physical or chemical process or working : ex I. clearly destined to be directly for pro-
duction purposes in sugar- works , also refrigerating apparatus ( " Koellichamen" ) for alcohol and other distilleries , scent and pharmaceutical products factories and other industrial enterprises ,...

9 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A283

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
ex 744
745
753 755

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES . PART I ( Continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Machines, apparatus and appliances for industrial manufacture of ice in blocks or bars or for cooling the air in freezing and refrigerating chambers: I. portable aggregates :
a. for industrial manufacture of ice ... b. for cooling the air in freezing and
refrigerating chambers ....... II. other, for industrial manufacture of ice .......
Refrigerators , drinking water and room coolers , adapted for the generation of cold; also similar cheats for making ice ; refrigerating machines and refrigerating units and similar articles suitable for use with the above-mentioned refrigerators , coolers and ice-makers; also machines, apparatus and appliances adapted for the preparation of cooling foods ; so -called ice cream freezers , whether or not provided with mechanism, hereunder included :
I. Refrigerators having a capacity of more than 2 cubic meters , outside measurement , and refrigerating machines , refrigerating units and similar articles , clearly intended to be used with such refrigerators....
II. all other articles classified under this Item....
Vacuum cleaners, used in households for cleaning floor coverings, curtains , furniture and the like; also floor waxing and floor polishing machines and appliances....
Machines and apparatus for sewing, basting, knitting, stopping, embroidering, stitching and scalloping, as well as similar machines and apparatus : II. sewing machines , including sole-sewing
machines, as well as silar sewing machines and embroidering , stitching and scalloping machines: a. in furniture form, for example placed
inside , attached to or put on a drawing room cabinet , for household use, provided with an electric motor placed inside the machine or fitted thereto.......

9 p.c. 18 p.. 9 p.o.
18 p.. 30 p.c. 30 p..
30 p.c.

A284

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS

SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES.

PART I (Continued)

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
755 (continued)
757
758
ex 761
765

Description of Products
b, other: 1. on a table , legs or a similar stand , provided or not with a treadle, weighing 55 kilogrammes or less , ... 2. other than those on tables , legs or a similar stand , weighing 20 kilogrammes or less ......... 3. all other, ......
' ddressing machines and other implements and appliances for printing, stamping, numbering or paging, including numberers and other stamps operating by mechanism, " multigraphs" and similar articles thereunder included : all these providing they weigh 100 kilograms or less ; also label pasting and similar pasting machines , ns , . , paper, board and similar fastening machines, as well as paper perforating and paper punching machines, all these providing they weigh 10 kilograms or less ; also naper cutAng machines ; weighing 5 kilograms or less .
Autographs, autographic presses, copy presses, hectographs , polygraphs , multicopiers and other machines and appliances for manifolding script or type script , providing they weigh 100 kilograms or less ; also separately imported rolls and dimensioned refills for such machines and appliances , of all kinds , also for those of greater weight .....
Typewriters , n, s.m.: bookkeeping machines ; statistical machines ; calculating and adding machines ; cash registers and other automatic cashchecking appliances; as well as mechanisms , chassis , scales , keys , type bars, so- called carriages , rollers , paper gud and similar articles generally used with the machines and apparatus specified in this Item
Fire engines, whether or not power-actuated ; fire extinguishing apparatus (annihilators , extinguishers , rapid extinguishers , foam extinguishers , etc.) and refills therefor (whether or not in glass containers ) ; fir . tinguishing boxes , tubes , grenades and similar articles for extinguishing fires ; also fire hose supports and reels , fire ladders (tower and hook ladders , etc. ), fire rescue appliances, n.9 . m. , smoke masks and similar fire extinguishing and brigade equt oment

Rate of Duty 18 p.c. 18 p.c. 9 p.c.
18 p.c.
18 p.c.
18 D.C.
9 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE, OCT. 30, 1947

A285

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS SECTION C. NETHERL NDS INDIES. PART I (Continued)

78

Netherlanda Indies Tariff Item Number
771 I 778
ex 779 II ex 781 I ex 785 I
787
ex 790 IIa 793

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Automatic appliances which are used for the sale of retail goods (foods and beverages of all sorts hereunder included ) , ....
Machines , apparatus and appliances , n , s.m.: I. by reason of their characteristics intended
solely or principally to serve as operational auxiliaries in industrial or technical enterprises ...... ........................................ II. other... ......... .
Iron and steel globe valves , slide valves and regulating cocks, n.s.m. , weighing more than 8 kilograms .
Iron and steel plug cocks , n.s.m. , weighing more than 8 kilograms......
Parts , n.e.m. , clearly belonging to the machines, apparatus and appliances specified above in Item numbers ex 713 , ex 716 , ex 717, ex 718, ex 723 II, 724 IV b, ex 736 , ex 744 II, 765, 778 1 , ex 779 II and ex 781 I ....
Electric cells and batteries , n.s.m.: I. primary: a. dry cells and batteries used for eleotrio flash-lights or torches ; as well as for toys , II. secondary (accumulators ) : a. unicellular, weighing 10 kilograms or less , as well as storage batteries com posed of two or more cells which cannot be separated , weighing 20 kilograms or less all these articles weighed without the electrolyte ..... b. other...........
Electric incandescent lamps based on a tension of six volts or less ( for flash-lights , bicycle-lamps , etc . ) .........
Telewriters , transcribers , remote-control typewriters and similar appliances to transmit electrically any communication in characters , in a manner similar to that in which conversations are carried on by this means ; as well as dictaphones and similar office machines ...

18 p.c.
9 p.c. 18 p.c. 9 p.o. 9 p.c.
Dutiable as the machines , apparatus or appliances
18 p.c.
18 p.c. 9 p.c. 30 p.c.
18 p ..

95347 0 49 pt. 5 19

A286

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
ex 803
804
ex 810 812
ex 816 ex 829
ex 830

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM- LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS

SECTION C. NETHERL'NDS INDIES .

PART I (Continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Electric generator sets furnishing dwellings, hotels , and the like with their own supply of electricity for illumination, heating or power (house power plants , etc. ) : a. stationary, weighing more than 100
kilograms ,...
b. other....
Electric fans: I. Table , wall , ceiling and other fans which
are used to effect the circulation of air
in dwelling or office premises, theaters and the like : wall or ring fine for cocling air, providing they do not come under II
below; as well as stands , blades, protectors and like articles used with such fans
and motors clearly belonging thereto..... II, Wall or ring fans with galvanized or tinned
iron (or steel ) ring and blades , the diameter of blade exceeding 500 mm, as well as centrifugal and other fans used as operational auxiliaries in industrial or technical enterprises .......

9 p.c. 18 p.c.
30 p.c. 9 p.c.

Electric washing machines for dishes and linen and other n.s.m, electric m chines , apparatus and appliances for household pruposes ......

30 p.c.

Electric machines , apparatus and appliances, n.8.m.: I , intended by reason of their characteristics
to be used exclusively or principally for industrial or technical purposes .... II. other.....
Insulators ......
rmatures field magnet systems , stators and rotors for dynamos, electric motors and similar electric machines, n.s.m.: I. providing they clearly belong to specified
machines, apparatus and appliances ...

9 p.c. 18 p.c. 9 p.c.
Dutiable as the machines, apparatus and appliances

Articles which by reason of their construction constitute parts or replacement parts of electric machines, apparatus or appliances, n.s.m.: I. providing they clearly belong to specified
machines, apparatus and appliances..

Dutiable as the machines, apparatus and appliances

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A287

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
ex 831 833 ex 834
ex 835 I 836
837
838

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES PART I ( Continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Railway locomotives and parts thereof, te be used for public traffic..........................
Tractors, walking tractors and similar tractive mechanisms , not running on rails.............
utomobiles: I. Limousines, coupes, touring and racing cars ,
chars-a -bancs and other cars for the transportation of passengers, with the exception of motor buses and ambulances ....... ex II. Motor buses and motor trucks , except tank
trucks, .....
Upper assemblies for the vehicles mentioned in Item 833, as well as parts thereof.......
Chassis and other lower assemblies , chassis frames, axles , wheels , wheel rims , rim bolts, rim clamps , valves, springs, fenders , brake drums, clutches , change speed gear, steering gear, brakes , radiators , motor hoods and other similar parts of the vehicles mentioned in Items 833 and 834, and subparts thereof such as steering wheels and the like : I, articles clearly intended to be used with
vehicles which are not subject to a duty higher than 18 percent ad valorem: a. for the tractive mechanisms mentioned
in Item 833 .........
II. other..............
Accessories and equipment for automobiles, such as lights, spot lights ; head lights ; light regulators ; warning and signalling appliances and devices (horns , turn indicators , stop signals , etc. ) ; instrument boards; rear vision mirrors ; wind- shield wipers ; air pumps, jacks , tire irons and other utensils ; spare tire and luggage carriers ; luggage racks ; shock absorbers; bumpers ; running board mats ; tire, wheel, spring and radiator covers ; trunks ; tool cases; non-skid chains and the like ; mascots and other decorations for automobile radiators ....
All kinds of cycles, with the exception of rail and water cycles and of children's toy cycles : I. Cycles not having their own motive power,
even not quite complete and fitted or not for the conveyance of goods , invalids or the wounded ............... . II. Motorcycles, even not quite complete ......

free 9 p.c. 30 p.C. 18 p.c. 9 p.c.
9 p.c. 18 p.c. 30 p.c.
30 p.c.
18 p.c. 30 p.c.

A288

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Netherlands Indies Tariff Item Number
839
Gen. Prov . to Chap. 76 Part A Shel 877 II
885
9244

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES , PART I ( Continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Parts of cycles , such as frames, axles ( pedal gear-, hub- and pedal axles ) , cranks , pedals , front and rear forks, driving wheels , rims , spokes , driving chains , chain wheels , free wheels , steering devices , brakes , saddle frame tubes , saddles , mudguards and mudguard rods , foot rests , lamp brackets, handle-bar grips , brake and pedal blocks , dust and oil caps , valves and the like , including ball joints, crown pieces and other similar Joints for assembling frames and fitting front and rear forks , pedal axle cones , spoke nipples and spoke nipple-plates and similar accessoriesall these articles in so far as they are neither mentioned nor included elsewhere and being or not in an entirely finished state : I. clearly destined, owing to their charac-
teristics or structure , to be used with motorcycles ....... II, other.

30 p.c. 18 p.c.

Airplane parts ......
Airplanes and other "heavier than air" apparatus ....
Other projection appliances (magic lanterns , motion picture appliances and the like , providing not toys ) , including appliances for the reproduction of photographed or synthetic music or other sounds , whether or not in fixed combination with projection appliances: I. Appliances for projecting motion picture
and sound films, over 30 mm in width .. II . other.....
Instruments and apparatus , n.s.m. , for observing, measuring, checking , registering or examining or for purposes of demonstration:
ex II . operational auxiliaries for industrial or technical enterprises......
Toilet brushes ( clothes- , hat-, hair-, tooth- and nail-brushes, shaving brushes and the like ) , n.s.m.:
I. Tooth brushes : a. with brush holder and unremovable or removable handles, fixed thereto , manufactured of white bone or of celluloid , galalite or similar artificial plastic material , in one single colour, and with a non-replacable brush , the hairs of which are fixed in the holder without metallic fasteners .....

free free
18 p.c. 30 p.c. 9 p.c.
18 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A289

22

Jetherlands Indice Tariff Iterr.
914 (continued )
924 932 I
933

SCHEDULE II- BELGIUM LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS
SECTION C, NETHERLANDS INDIES,
PART I (Continued)
Description of Products
III. all other toilet brushes classified under this number (except shaving brushes ) : a. solely mounted on commom wood , even stained, oiled , polished , waxed , painted or varnished, but neither laquered nor in any manner decorated, ornamented, veneered , covered or coated, nor provided with a mirror, and with the exception of pocket and bath brushes ....
Sports requisites and apparatus ..
Buttons : ex a, wholly or partly of mother-of-pearl ...................... b. of base metal :
1. neither ornamented nor decorated , and neither covered nor plated with precious me-
g. of other materials , such as bone , horn, leather, ivory nut, wood, paperpulp, celluloid, glass, ceramic materials, stone or similar products: 1. neither ornamented nor decorated ,.... 2. other....
d. covered with textile materials or products: 1. linen-faced, or so-called linen-faced buttons for underclothing . 2. other...... 
Trimmings and other articles , n.s.m. , of base metal, wood or other carving or plastic material, artificial plastic material , ceramic material , stone or glass, used for decorating or finishing or required for the manufacture of the folbwing articles : -- Clothes , hats and other millinery articles ,
handmade work , decorative, fancy and similar articles , such as buckles, hooks and eyes , fasteners , clasps , slides , glass beads and tinsel , cuttings , purl , etc .; - Footwear, such as fastening and ornamental buckles, hooks and eyes for footwear, eto .; ·- Rosaries, necklaces and other ornaments , such as small chains , fasteners, beads, etc .; Albums, diaries, book covers, purses, small money bags, pipes, cigar cases and similar articles :

Rate of Duty
18 p.c. 30 p.c. 30 p.c. 18 p.c. 30 p.c.
18 p.c. 30 p.c. 18 p.c. 30 p.c.

A290

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Netherlanda Indies Tariff Item Number
933 (continued)

SCHEDULE II

BENELUX LUXEMBURG · NETHERLANDS

SECTION C. NETHERLANDS INDIES

PART I (Continued)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

I. commonlymanufactured articles used solely for practical purposes , such as hooks, eyes and lightning fasteners for shutting clothes , trouser buckles , hooks and eyes for footwear, fastening buckles for footwear, fittings for braces , hose
suspenders and sock suspenders and whalebones for collars, clothing
and corsets, clasps for purses , etc. II, other, such as beads of base metal,
wood, celluloid, bone, mother-of-pearl, ivory, amber; spangles ; tinsel ; purl ; borders, fringes and tassels composed of beads or of pierced fruits or seeds ; hat-, belt- and decorative buckles ; facings, motifs and trimmings for ladies' dresses, belts and hats of beads , shells , jet and the like ; tassels, plaits and similar passementerie wares of imitation gold or silver yarn; ladies ' hand-bag fasteners of metal, bortoise shell or imitations of the latter; metal trimmings for purses; cap badges, etc ....

18 p.c. 30 p.e.

END OF SECTION C.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A291

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG SECTION D · CURACAO

NETHERLANDS

This Section is authentic only in the English language. PART I (continued)
Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

NOTE: In the hereunder mentioned "rate of duty" 10 p.c. surtax is included.

Curaçao Tariff Item Number
Article 126 ex f
Article 127 ex 17 a
Article 128

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Fresh fruit, except plantains, bananas, sugar

cane and tangerines .....

free

Gas oil and crude gasoline, to be processed

free

Automobiles, including motor buses , motor trucks, chassis, inner tubes, tires, and automobile parts not mentioned specifically ..... Whisky
Cornmeal
Flour of wheat or rye
Furniture, wooden or of metal: with glass ..... other ......
Cigarettes
Confectionery and chocolate Meat, preserved, but not frozen:
ex: Hams
Writing, calculating and adding machines ; writing, office, painting and drafting requisites; cash ro gisters; bookkeeping machines ; scales and moasuring implements; refrigerators: a. enamelled 5. with glass All other good, not specified in the tariff as dutiable nor included under duty-free articles :

11 p.c. 1. 27.50 per hectoliter of 50 p.c. strength + excise duty f. 0.275 per 90 Kg net f. 0.55 per 90 Kg net
16.5 p.c. 11 p.c. f. 1.10 per 100 piccos 16.5 p.c.
f. 3.30 per 100 Kg net
11 p.c. 16.50 p.c.

A292

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE II - BELGIUM LUXEMBURG - NETHERLANDS SECTION D - CURAÇAO ART I ( continued)

Curaçao Tariff Item Number
ex Article 128 (continued )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Beef and veal, fresh Fresh vegetables , other than potatoes Canned vegotables Soy-bean oil
Beverages (non-alcoholic ) and vegetable food products, n.s.m. Leather boots and shoes
Cotton garments , except knit Fabrics and manufactured articles of flax, hemp and ramic .......
Men's and boy's wool overcoats , suits and pants . Rayon dresses, skirts and blouses Hats, caps and berets
Boards , planks and scantlings of Southern pine Wooden manufactures, n.8.m.
Naphtha, solvents and other finished light
petroleum products , except gasoline Lubricating oil .... Asbestos and manufactures Sulphur, crudc Iron and steel bars and rods Structural iron and steel
Tubular products and fittings , of iron and steel ) Iron and steel wire and manufactures of such wire ......
Iron and steel nails and bolts ( except for railroad use) Articles of iron and steel, n.s.m. Copper and manufactures Brass and bronze and manufactures ... Electrical machinery and apparatus Construction machinery ......
Conveying machinery (hoisting and lifting apparatus and machines , implements and appliances for the displacement of loads ) Pumps Valves , principally of iron or steel , and parts, ) for steam, water , oil and gas ........ Industrial machinery and parts , n.s .. Medicinal, pharmaceutical and toilet preparations , n.s.m. Ready-mixed paints , stains and enamels Trunks ..... Office supplies , n.s.m. .... Rubber hose
Milk, condensed, evaporated or powdered Patent medicines
Socks and stockings of silk or artificial silk Fish , dried or salted

3.3 . p.c.

END OF SECTION D

61 STAT. GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A293

SCHEDULE LI · BELGIUM - LUXEMBURG NETHERLANDS SECTION E - SURINAM
This Section is authentic only in the English language PART I (continued)
Most -Favoured -Nation- Tariff NOTE: In the hereunder mentioned " rate of duty" 25 p.c. surtax is included.

Surinam Tariff Itam Number Article 1 Section 2 2&
ax 8 a
ex 31 D and E
ex 31 E
ax 34 49

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Fruit of the soil and vegetables , fresh, not specially mentioned

2.5 cents por Kg net

Grain flour, other than in packages wed ghing one kilogram or less .......

3.125 cents per Kg net

Lubricating oils, including machine oil and motor oil

20 p.o. with a rdnimum of 7.5
cants per liter for oils in roceptacles of 10 liters or less

Edible oils in rocoptacles of 10 liters or less .....

20 p.c. with a minimum of
3.75 cents per liter

Odorifirous essential oils , not specially mentioned..37.5 p.c.

Fish : Salmon, salted or in brine, in receptaclos containing more than 10 kilogrammes net woight

5 cents pur Kg net

All other fish , salted or in brine , as well as stockfish in receptacles containing more than 10 kilogrammos net weight

2.5 cents per Kg not

Fish, not specially mentioned, regardless of roceptacle ....

20 p.c.

8

A294

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE II

- BELGIUM LUXE BUNG SECTION E - SURINA
P..RT I (concluded)

NETHERLANDS

Surinam Tariff Itam Number

Description of Products

Rato of Duty

ex 55

Fresh fruit

.......

Fruits, preserved

.....

Soap , crude ....

Soap, porfumed (toilet )

Soap powder

Tooth pasto, dental soap and powder .... Clothes for women ... ...... .

Clothes for men

Automobile tires , including casings and inner tubes Paper bags, not printed on ............. Typewriters and adding machines Automobiles , including motor trucks ....... Spare parts for automobiles, including motor

Scientific apparatus , not specially mentioned

Socks and stockings of silk or artificial silk Pepper ..... Cloves ....

Nutmeg Ginger Vanilla ......

Cinnamon ......

Raffia .......

....

Mats of raffia (rabancs) .................. Gum Arabic

Floor mats of vegetable plaiting material

Strings and twine , braids, floor mats and carpots of coconut fibre ...

20 p.e.

Article 1, section 3 (free list)

4

Dynamite and other explosive substances , including

detonants but excluding gun powdor and ammunition ... free

ex 7

Leather, other than sole, chamois and parchment ..... free

ex 9

Machinery for mining ...

free

14 a

Coal ....

free

END OF SECTION E

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT , 30, 1947

A295

SCHEDULE II

BELGIUM - LUXE BURG NETHERLANDS PART II
Preferental Tariff

NIL

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A297

SCHEDULE LI - BRAZIL This Schedule is authentie only in the English and French languages.
PART I Most-Favoured-Nation Tarif

Brasilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products



5 
9 11
/1 11 23 /1



CLASS I

LIVE ANTMALS

Livestock:

neat cattle....

head

horsos :

breuding and draught horses....... head

NOTE : Breeding animals, imported by stock breeders, who are registered as such with the Ministry of Agriculture, and prove that they possess stock farts by producing a certificate from the said Ministry, are exempt fron Customs duties.

CLASS II

HAIR, FUR OR BRISTLES AND FEATHERS Raw or prepared t

Bristles, goat, wild boar, pig and other

swinc .....

L.K.

Fur:

Beaver, haru, otter and camel hair

cloth.....

L.F.

Rabbit.....

Manufactured wares:

Feather trimmings: Egrets....... Flowers, loose....

R.Cr. K.Gr.

Rate of duty
79.00 152.88
2.70 7.00 Free 0.70 0.70

A298

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III- BRAZIL FART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

CLASS III

36 /2

HIDES, SKINS AND LEATHER
Raw, prepared or tanned and varnished :
Raw, with or without the hair:
Dried, salted or dry-salted ( cxclusively of silver, blue, platinum and red foxes, marten, squirol and scal) ..............................

/2 37

Rabbit dried, saltod or dry-saltod..... Preparod or tanned: with the hair:

/1

Ermine, beaver, otter, fox and the like,

whole, without other preparation or

finish....

L.K.

12

Ermine, boavor, otter and fox, patched

without preparation or finish......... L. K.

14

Rabbit, cat and hare, without other

preparation or finish.....

... L.K.

Without the hair:

16

Chamois...

L.K.

n..mi

/11

Known as Russian, or Bulgarian leather,

whether varnished, grained or not...... I.K.

Manufactured wares:

30

50

Footwear :

Shoes and pumps!

Linen fabric :



up to 22 am. long in foot...... pair

/8

over 22 cm long in foot................

pair

Rate of duty
2.24 rec
29.12 22.40 22.40 16.52 26.32
5.46 10.92

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT, 30, 1947

A299

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff itom
number

Description of Products



66

Gloves, with or without stitching on baoks :

Kid, sucde, chamois, dog-skin an . the like :

/1

up to 30 cm long......

..... pair

over 30 and up to 45 cm long...... pair

over 45 cm. long.....

.pair

Boxing, fencing and other sports........ pair

79

Bands of leather stitched or not for hat

swoats....

.......... L. K.

CLASS IV

AT , FISH , OLLAGINOUS MATERIALS AND OTHER ANIMAL PRODUCTS

86

Meat :

In other proserves :

Prepared in any way:

18

Foic gras..

L. K.

cx/
87 89
/1 /2 96 98

Canned soups, with and without meet....

Cascin, powder.... Clue :
Fish....

.... L.K. .... L.K.

Other kinds.......

·. L.K.

Gelating in sheets, granulated or powdered L.K. Milk:

12

Condensed or omsetted, with sugar.... L. K.

13

In powder, tablets or other state, with

or without sugar.....

...... L.K.

13

Condensed or preserved unsweetened..... L.K.

Rate of duty
7.00 11.20 10.80 29.12 18.34
7.00 33 , ad valorem
1.89 4.20 2.80 5.60 2.10 1.32 1.02

A300

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

103 /1 /1
106
12

Fixed liquid oils: Cod Liver...... Fish liver, in bulk.
Fish: Cod and " Saithe" : dried and salted, with bones..

.L. K. ... L. K.
.R.T.

13 16 107
116 /1
122

dried and salted , boned .. Preserved by any other process:
Herrings : smoked exclusively..

..L.K. .L.K.

preserved in other way............ L.K. Cheese :

Ves, Roquefort ...... CLASS V

..L.K.

MOTHER-OF-PEARL, IVORY, TORTOISE-SHELL AND OTHER ANIMAL DERIVATIVES

Raw or prepared : Sponges :

Common, in bulk, for washing houses and

similar uses..

L. K.

Manufactured Wares :

Ornamental and other similar articles for personal adornment :

Horn and bonu...

..... L.K.

Rate outy
0.70 5.88
Crg 200.00 plus surtaxes minus consumption tex.
0.49
1.00 4.37 5.60
35.00
61.18

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -- OCT, 30 , 1947

A301

SCHEDULE III- BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian
Tariff item numbor

Description of Products

Rate of duty

133 /2
134
136 /1
167

CLASS VI WOOL

Raw or dressed :

Raw wool!

Fine, of counts finer than 50's.........G.K.

Washed or scoured, orude or carbonised and floss or waste from carding or combing:
Bleached or natural colour exclusively wool of counts finer than 50's........ G.K.

Carded, combed or prepared in any way, including tops and laps :

Crude wool tops and noils, of courts

finer than 50's..

..... G.K.

Manufactured Waros:

Tapestries for walls and tables and furniture upholstery :

Ex - Beauvais , Gobelin, Aubusson tapestries, with signature worked into the fabrio, and catirely hand-made..

172
12 13
/8 19

Ready-made clothing: Shirts and vests :

Stockinet or knitted :

Fine shirts ( chemisettes) ...

each

Pants and drawers :

Stockinet or knitted ....

Cach

n.s.m:

Plain :

Hosiery of machine knitted fabrics....... each Lace......

1.40
4000
7.50
50, of tho dutios on embroidered or decorated wall panels.
9.10 9.10
70.00 218.40

95347 0-49- pt. 5- -20

A302

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

275

Pioce goods :

Pala-bosch fabrics :

up to 250 gr. per square metro...... R.K.

/15

over 250 gr. per square metro....... R.K.

CLASS VII

SILK, RAYON, AND OTHER SIMILAR ARTIFICIAL OR SYNTHETIC PRODUCTS

197 210
s /2 13 216
/2 217
13

Manufactured Wares:

Belts, garters and braces..

L.K.

Gloves, with or without stitching on backs :

up to 30 om. long.......

.. pair

over 30 and up to 45 cm long..................... pair

over 45 cm long...

pair

Lace (of silk) :

In the piece......

R.K.

Applique, cut out...

R.K.

Ready-made clothing:

Lace or tulle..................

R.K.

CLASS VIII

FRUITS, CEREALS , HERBS , VEGETABLES AND THEIR DERIVATIVES

Fruit :

225

Plums, cherries, damsons, quinoes, figs ,

apples, melons, peaches, pears, straw

berries, grapes, fresh or green.......

Rate of duty
81.90 65.52
140.00 490 6.02 7.28
285.46 342.16 488.88
Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A303

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
member

Description of Products

227  12
11 229
12

Almonds and hazelnuts : Unshelled....... Shelled or husked..
Walnuts: In the shell....
Dried or raisined : n.s.M.

..G.K. ........L.K.
....... G.K.

Rate of duty
0.70 1.40 0.35 I rea

230 /2 15 16
234

Preserve !

Olives : in oil.......

..... L.K.

Any other fruit:

Peaches, pears, apricots , apples , cherries, plums, prunes, berries, except strawberries, and mixed fruits for salad made up of the foregoing :

In alcohol, in syrup or jams and in jelly, cake or pulp, with sugar or honey, including jams made up of melon and lemon, melon and ginger... L.K.

Peaches, apricots, apples , cherries, plums and pears:

Without syrup, crystallised or

prepared and confectioned in any

other way.................

..... L.K.

ex Marron-glace................

L. K.

Cereals, herbs and vegetables:

Oats : In grain with the husk............. G.T.

1.40
20 10.92 10.92 175.00

A304

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHE ULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

236 239
 240
/1
13 14
245 /1 /2 15
247 /1
251 252

Chick-peas, whole or split.... Wheat :

..... G. K.

In grain, husked or threshed........... ..G.T.

Cereals, herbs and vegetables :

n.8.m!

ex Dried peas and lentils.

..... G.K.

Of any kind :

In preserves of any kind with or without mixture of fruit, in pulp, except tomatoes, or prepared in any other way :

Asparagus...

... L.K.

Others......

.. L.K.

Derivatives and sub-products :

Flours : Potato....

.... LK.

Oat......

.... L. K.

Wheat.

L. T.

Malt:

Barley or roasted barley .......

G.T.

CLASS IX

PLANTS, LEAVES, FLOWERS , AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE, SEEDS , ROOTS , PELLS, NODDER AND SPICES

Capers prepared in any way...... *····· L.K.

Garlic, loose, in bundles or ropes................ L.K.

Rate of duty 0.42 06.94
0.77
2.80 420
3.06 1.09 217.00 350.00
3.64 1. 12

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A305

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number 253
/ 12 254
/14 /20 /25 /28 /29
258 
261

&& 

Description of Products

Shrubs, trees and plants, living, of all kinds:

Garden.... ...

....... G.X.

Vegetable garden, meadow, orchard and agricultural generally...................................

Berries, grains, beans, fruits, thistles, seeds, nuts, and other spesies suitable for condiments, medicine, industrial and other purposes :

Vanilla (poda)......................

.... LL

Cardomum minor ( seeds) .

.... L.K.

Cumin (seeds ).................

L.K.

Kola (nuts) ...... Nutmeg (nuts) ................... Elderberries....................

L.I. ... L.K.

Orchard, meadow, market garden and agricultural seeds in general....... L.K.

n. 8.M:

Grass seeds......

Clover seeda.................... Certified seed potatoes..... Barks and wood ?

Cinnamon (including cassia lignoa)... G.X.

Logwood........

For use in medicine, industry and for other purposes :

Quinine bark.....

L.K.

Mushrooms, dried, fresh or preserved.... L.K.

ex Truffles......

L.K.

!!!

Rate of duty
2.40 3300
26.80 2.60 1.68 7.08 2.36 0.18
0.20 0.42
2,66 $ 20

A306

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

262

Condiments and spiced sauces such as:

ourry, preserved mustard, and others not

specified, in liquid, lump, paste or

powder......

L.K.

263

Cloves......

G.K.

266

Leaves, flowers, herbs, stems, rushes,

mosses, lichens, algac, stalks, and other

similar species suitable for condiments,

medicinal, industrial and other purposes :

14

Rosemary (flowers) ...

L.K.

16

Lavender (flowers ) .....................

L.K.

19

Henno ( leaves ) ....................

L.K.

/10

Hops or lupulus ( flowers or cones ) .... L.K.

/11

Mace or nutmeg (flowers ) ... ......... L. K.

Mallows :

/12

Flowers..

L.K.

/13

Leaves....

L. K.

/14

Poppy, white, black or red,

(fruits )......

L.K.

267

Tobacco :

13

Leaf...

G..

270

Pepper :

/1

Asiatic, white or black, in pepper

coms......

........ L.K.

/2

Asiatic, white or black, powdered... L.K.

271

Pimentos and allspice :

/1

Fresh, dried or salted, whole or in

lumps .....

L.K.

12

Powdered or preserved, with or without

addition of fruit or vegetables, or

prepared in any other manner......... L.K.

Rate of duty
7.25 2632
2452
2.26 12.18 3.18 2.94 4.06 17.50
1.12 2.24
2.24 7.28

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A307

SCHEDULE III BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

272

Roots, bulbs and tubers suitable for

condiments, medicinal , industrial and

other purposes :

/2

Marshmallow, with or without the

bark or grated..........

L.K.

13

Turmeric or ginger, white or yellow

(roots)......

L.K.

14

Quitch grass...

L. K.



Orris....

L.K.

18

Rhubarb......

L.K.

/10

Sarsaparilla.....

L.K.

/11

Valerian

L.K.

273

Any unclassified spices, fresh, dried or in

preserves.........

L.K.

CLASS X

VEGETABLE SAPS AND JUICES, ALCOHOLIC AND FERMENTED BEVERAGES, AND OTHER LIQUIDS

276

Alcoholic beverages :

Whisky of the types known as Scottish, Bourbon, and Ryc, and blends of the two latter :

Up to 45 degrees of alcoholic strength:

16

In bottles.....

L.A.

Over 45 degrees of alcoholio strength:

/8

In bottles.....

L.K.

Gins :

/10

In bottles..

L.K.

Rate of duty
2.24 2.52 2.24 2.38 18.62 7.42 3.78 8.12
9.52 13.16 7.14

A308

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian
Tariff item number

Description of Products

282

Gums, resin-gums, resins and natural

balsams :

Arabic, acacia, Senegal and Jamba:

16

Solid or in tears.....

L. K.

/18

Shellac in paste, blocks, straws or

scales.....

L.K.

Pine :

/21

Burgundy..

L.K.

122

Colophony ( common resin or rosin) . G.T.

/23

Black ( pitch) and any other kind.. G.T.

ex - Kauri-gum. ......

L.K.

Turpentine :

/26

Bordeaux or ordinary.........

G.K.

/30

n.s.m. ( including Button lac) ..... L. K.

283

queurs of any kind:

12

In bottles.....

L.K.

286

Fixed liquid oils :

Olive or sweet oil :

/12

Pure or refined..

L.K.

290

Vinegar :

12

Composition or for pickling such as :

aromatic "Tarragon" and the like.... L.K.

291

Wines :

Sparkling or frothy:

Champagne, original.......

L.K.

Rate of duty
1.68 1.75 0.74 18.82 185.82 2.24 0.70 3.25 9.24
2.94
2.80
8.68

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30 , 1947

A309

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian
Tariff item number

Description of Products

322 /1 12
370 /1 12
396 406
/1 /2 13

CLASS XI

WOOD AND TIMBER Manufactured wares : Bobbins, spools or tubes of any wood :

Small, plain, for winding thread,

string or silk thread......

L.K.

Large or small, wholly wood or wood and

cardboard, with or without common metal

fittings, for spinning, knitting and

weaving...

L.K.

CLASS XII

INDIAN AND OTHER CANE, BAMBOO, RUSHES , RATTAN AND OSIERS

Raw or prepared : Rushes or rattan :

Raw...

G.K.

Split cane, drawn through, dram -plate or prepared in any other way........... G.K.
CLASS XIII

STRAW, COIR, ESPARTO, MANILLA, PAINA, PLASSAVA, PITA, SISAL, OR AGAVE, AND OTHER
FIBROUS VEGETABLE MATERIALS

Raw, prepared or heckled , combed or dressed in any way, and dyed or not :

Esparto and manilla hemp..

...... G.T.

Manufactured Wares :

Baskets, bags and cases :

For sewing, travelling, and other purposes :

Plain......

....... L.K.

Embroidered, trimmed and lined...... L.K.

Large, for clothes, transport of

bottles, porters baskets and the

like..

G.K.

Rate of duty
1.40 2.24
2.80 9.80
238.00 10.92 22.54 3.64

A310

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number
14
15

Description of Products

Paper, shopping, cutlery and the

like.......

..... L.K.

Common for earthworks and the like. G.K.

CLASS XIV

COTTON

Manufactured Wares :

432

Carpets and rugs.

L.K.

473

Lace :

Tulle, embroidered with any material.. R.h.

12

Any other kind , emb.offered with any

material.....

R.K.

474

Ready-made clothing :

Plain:

16

Collars for shirts.

each

n. 8.M:

/12

Any other fabric

/13

Embroidered or trimmed

511 /1

CLASS XV
FLAX, JUTE, HEMP AND RAMDE
Manufactured Wares :
Sheets, coverlets and counterpanes for beds, pillow-cases, towels, table-napkins and the like, only made of flax, out out or in pieces for cutting out:
Plain, the same rates as cloth plus 10 .

Rate of duty
10.92 0.35
21.84
218.40 136.50
1.40
Double the Suty of the fabric itself plus 10.. Tho atics of the plain reny made clothing plus 10..
Reduction of 10 on custom duties

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A311

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL TART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

12
522 /1 12
523
/1 /2 13 /4 16 17
545
13

± 3 5



Embroidered or trimmed ( including drawnthroad and oross-stitches made by hand) · the same duties as the
embroidered cloth used plus 10,

Lace (linen) : In the piece...... Applique, out out....

....R.K. .R.K.

Ready-made clothing ( linen) :

Plain : Shirts for both sexes :

Any tissue, plain or pleated ...... each

Any tissue, with silk or rayon

fronts......

each

Pants and drawers.. Shirt collars...................

...... each

Shirt fronts, plain or pleated..........R.K.

Shirt ouffs.............

..pair

n. S. A:

Lace.....

.... R.K.

CLASS XVI

PAPER AND ITS APPLICATIONS

Books :

For reading, including almanacs and calendars, newspapers, periodicals and rovicws:

Loose, brochured, boarded or bound in paper-covered binding dth cloth or leather backs....

In leather or cotton, woollen or linen-

covered bindings...

L.K.

Rate of duty Reduction of 10, on custoL! dutics
145.60 175.00
19.11 27.30 10.92 1.05 43.68 2.20 327.60
I'ruc 1.54

A312

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

556 13

Paper : Sheots, spools or rolls:
Standard newsprint.....

Crepon, gouffre, crystal or glacine, stearined; oiled, paraffined, tissues , tracing and vegetable, grease-proof, stencils for duplicating and the like :

/13

White......

L.K.

/14

Coloured by any poss......

L.K.

/15

Printed.........

L.K.

/20

Toilet, only in perforated strips or

in rectangles..................

...... G.K.

Sensitised :

/29

with silvor, platinum or other

salts, for photography....... ..... L.K.

Fall, in the picos:

131

Printed, coloured, or tinted, plain,

grained or imitation morocco........ L.K.

132

Printed, coloured or tinted, with

velvet .....

............. L.K.

564

All other articles n.s.m:

Cigarette paper:

/10 With arbored tip or not....

L.K.

CLASS XVII

STUNES , EARTHS, MINERALS AND OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS

566

Mineral waters, natural and artificial :

12

For table use......

L.K.

Rate of duty
Free
2.80 2.94 420 1.60 7.28 13.30 20.44 5.18
1.40

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A313

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff itcm
number

Description of Froducts

567

Alabaster, marble, porphyry and similar

stones, natural or artificial :

In the rough :

12

Marble, in blocks or lumps , rough-

hewn or sawn......

cu. m.

569

Amianth or asbestos :

/1

Raw......

/2

In fiber......

Manufactured articles :

17

Tisted yarn or rope......

L.K.

/8

Millboard, leaves shoets, cardboard,

even if cut in any form or shape and

tubes in sections or not, with or

without internal wire......

L.K.

19

Fabrics and manufactured articles

such as: washers, tapes , packings

and the like, with or without

internal wire................

L. K.

/10

Wearing apparel and other manu-

factured articles n. s.m......

L.K.

574

Asphalt or bitumen, natural or artificial :

/1

Raw or impure, containing up to 50,

of bituminous substances solvable in

carbon sulphides or chloroform.......... R.T.

12

Raw or impure , containing over 50.

up to 98 , of bituminous substances

solvable in carbon sulphides or

chloroform ....

R.T.

13

Refined or containing over 98% of

bituminous substances solvable in

carbon sulphi.os or chloroform...... R.T.

Rate of duty
252.00 Free Free
4.00 3.20 6.47 10.68
218.40 436.30 546.00

A314

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff itum
numbor

Description of Products

579

Mineral coal or fossils and solid, semi-

solid and liquid products derived from its

distillation :

Anthracite :

In bulk....

Soft coal :

/1

In bulk......

R.T.

Dressed for electrical work, with or without copper fittings, wiros or terminals for connections :

19

Carbon rods for electric lamps....... L.K.

Electrode blocks or pieces, weighing:

/10

Up to 30 kg..................

..... R.K.

11

Samo, over 30 kg......

R.K.

/12

Brushes and sheuts..

L. K.

582

Com:nts :

/2

Magnosium or white...

R.T.

584

Chromite (chronite, iron or smelting chrone-

natural) :

/1

Oro......

13

Bricks or parts for constructing hearths

and furnaces.................

R.T.

517 

nery and common corundum, natural or artificial , and the like, such as alumium, carborundum, silfax, silito, silindum and others :

Stones or bricks, wheels and other articles

of any form or shape forwhetting, grinding

and other purposes......

.......... L..

/2

Granulatod, adhering to fabric......... L.K.

Rate of duty
Free 20.00
2.45 0.70 0.35 1.96 145.60 Free 319.20
2.24 3.64

61 STAT. GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A315

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

599

Petrolcum ( natural mineral oil or rock-

oil) and solid, semi -solid or liquid

products derived from its distillation :

Mineral groases :

14

Simple, dark ( cylinder stock and

others) showing coloration higher than N.7 N.P.A. of the above-

mentioned colorimeter, with fused

material....

R. T.

Others :

Vaseline oil, also known as paraffin oil, liquid vaseline and
white oil, including oils for transformers, switches, busbars and other electrical apparatus :

/12

Showing coloration equal to or

higher than N. plus 22 of the

Saybolt (A.S.T.M. ) chromatometer... L.K.

/13

Showing coloration equal to N.

plus 15 and higher up to N. plus

22 exclusive of the Saybolt (A.S.T,M. )

chromatometer....

..L.K.

For transformers, busbars, switches

and other electrical apparatus, the coloration of which is lower than

N. plus 15 of the Saybolt ( .S.T.M. )

chromatometer...

L.T.

/15

n. s.m.

Paraffin :

.... L.K.

/16

For soientific or medicinal use ... L.K.

117

For industrial and other purposes.. L.K.

Rate of duty
291.20
1.12 0.70 329.00 1.82 2.52 1.96

E

A316

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

CLASS XVIII

620 622
12 624
/1 /2 625

EARTHENWARE ( LOUGA) AND GLASS

Earthenware ( Louça) :

Insulators for telephone, telegraph
or electric transmissio.. poles, with or without base metal accessories....... L.K.

Fancy or ornamental objects for setting on the table, in gardens , affixing to walls or ceilings, such as sconces, busts, flower-pot holders, candelabra, ash trays, columns , statues, figures, flower holders, statuettes, bouquet holders or flower vases, chandeliers, medallions, pedestals, ricc - powder boxes toilet sprayers and flasks and similar articles :

of earthenware Nos. 3 and 4.......... L.K.

Roofing tiles :

earthenware Nos. 1 and 2...

L.K.

idem Nos. 3 and 4.. All manufactures n.s.m:

... L.A.

5678

For household uses :

15

N. 1.....

R.i.

16

N. 2......

R.K.

17

N. 3.....

R.K.

N. 4.....

R.K.

For sanitary uses :

19

N. 1...

R.K.

/10

N. 2.

R.K.

/11

N. 3..

R.K.

/12

N. 4.

R.K.

Note : N. 1 pottery is that made from white stoneware or granite ;
N. 2 is made from stoneware or granite of one or more colours , with or without gilding ;
N. 3 is white porcelain ;

Rate of duty
3.64
21.84 3.64 7.28
3.22 4020 5.60 7.00 2.52 2.60 5.04 5.60

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A317

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

631 635
/1 /2 13 638
/1 12
13 14
15 /6

Glass :

N. 4 is porcelain of one or more colours, with or without gilding and biscuitware or imitations of this, white or coloured, with or without gilding.

Manufactured Wares :

Ornaments and other similar objects for personal adornmont......

Glass beads and spangles, white, coloured, gilt or silvered:

Solid : Plain.. Cut... Hollow or bugles.. Spangles......

L.K. L.K. ... La K. L.K.

Bottlos, flasks and jars :

of common glass , dark, bluish, greunish and so-called black:

Without emery-ground stopper or neck. L.K.

With emery-ground stopper or neok.... L.K.
of common glass, whito, milky or coloured :

Without emery-ground stopper or

neck......

L.K.

With emery-ground stopper or neck..... L.K.
of glass of other quality, white, milky or coloured (flasks and fars) :

With moulded ornaments, also those emery-ground or dulled...... ....... L.K.

Engraved by any process, also those

out.........

L..

Rate of duty
43.68
7.28 14056 24 78 35.84
1.12 1.40
2.24 2.94
4034 6.58

95347 0-49pt. 5-21

A318

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

640
641 A /2
644
A 12 646

Insulators of common glass , white ,
dark , greenish or bluish, for telephone or telegraph poles , with or without base metal accessories ...... L.K .

Floor tiles :

Rough, white or greenish ............. ... L.K .

All other n.s.m. , including those

juxtaposed and joined by means of

insulating material ....

... L.K .

Fancy articles or ornaments for table
or wall decoration , such as : busts , pot holders , ashtrays , columns, statuettes , figures , flower-holders , flowers-vases , plaques , pedestals , powder pots , scentsprays , toilet- jars and similar articles :

n. 1 glass

...K .

n. 2 glass .....

.... L.K .

Roofing tiles of any shape , of white or

greenish glass

.L.K .

3.64 0.98 2.06
8.82 13.16
0.70

CLASS XIX

ALUMINIUM, LEAD , TIN , ZINC AND THEIR ALLOYS

Lead :

Raw or prepared :

677

Bars, ingots and pigs

Tin:

..L.T. 322.00

Raw or prepared :

696

Ingots and pigs .....

..L.K .

Manufactures :

Pipes and tubes , straight , curved

704

or spiral .....

... L.K .

1.82 1.96

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A319

SCHEDULE III 1 BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Zincs

Raw or prepared :

716

Ingots and pigs

..... L.T . 182.00

718

Pure or purified , in cylinders , shot

or rods

..L.K . 12.60

CLASS XX COPPER, NICKEL AND THEIR ALLOYS

Copper Raw or prepared :

735

Smelted or cast , in blocks , plates , cubes ,

ingots , pigs or cakes

... G.T . 196.00

Manufactured Wares

739

Fancy goods and trinkets for personal

adornment

.L.K . 43.68

756

Purl and spangles .....

..L.K . 40.88

791

Unclassified manufactured wares :

/1

For the table , wall or ceiling , orna-

mental or fancy

... L.K . 32.76

/2

For office use , table service and other

purposes ...

...L.K . 26.32

n.s.m.

Plain , varnished or painted ........ L.K . CLASS XXI

13,16

IRON AND STEEL AND THEIR ALLOYS

Raw or prepared :

802

Straw or coarse filaments (mineral wool ) :

Coarse , for scraping floors and similar

purposes

... L.K.

1.40

A320

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff iten
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

/2 804 810
/1 /2
13
818 /2 13 14 15 16 17
821
/2 13 824

423

Coarse , in scouring pads and fine of

any kind

.... L.K .

3.64

Solder in powder or sheet , wire or bar , with or without outside coating ... L.K .

0.56

Fish hooks , plain or galvanized : Up to 500 gr per thousand .... ..L.K.

16.24

Over 500 gr per thousand up to

1 kg ditto .......

.L.K .

Over 1 up to 10 kg ditto

..L.K .

Over 10 kg ditto

..... L.K .

Manufactured Wares :

14.42 11.48
8.12

Strong-boxes or safes :

Over 50 up to 75 cm on the greatest

dimension

.... each 560,00

Over 75 up to 100 cm ditto ...... each 709.80

Over 100 up to 125 cm ditto ..... each 1,037.40

Over 125 up to 150 cn ditto ..... oach 1,365.00

Over 150 up to 175 cm ditto ..... each 1,692,60

Over 175 cm ditto

..each 2,047.50

Chairs :

Ordinary or in suites

.... each

29.12

Rocking

... each

87.36

Pedestal office chairs

...each

58.24

Bedsteads

..each

72.80

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A321

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

843

Wire :

Barbed and galvanized

.G.T .

183.40

Bare, plain or galvanized :

/2

Up to 1mm . diameter .....

..L.K .

/3

Over 1 up to 3 an . diameter

..L.K .

M

Over 3 up to 6 mm . diameter

... L.K .

Ex Galvanized staples for fencing ...... G.T .

849

Tables ....

..each

851

Unclassified furniture and furnishings

and their spare parts ....

.L.K .

861

Unclassified manufactured wares :

16

Buckets , plain , varnished , galvanized

or painted

... L.KJ

17

Large flasks , cylinders or tubes

(except those made of tinplate ) for

the transport of goods , plain ,

varnished , printed , galvanized or

painted .....

..L.K .

0.98 0.84 0.70 183.40 29.12 3.64
2.80
1.40

CLASS XXII GOLD, PLATINUM, SILVER & THEIR ALLOYS Silver :

Manufactured wares :

886

Sacramental vessels :

A

With pearls , diamonds , emeralds , opals ,

rubies or sapphires

... R.Gr .

46.62

12

Plain or filigreed ....

.R.K .

145.60

A322

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number
887 ^ 12
894
A /2 902 A 12 13 907 A /2 13 908 909 A
/2 13 15

35

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Purl, lace and festoons : White or plain silver Gilded

..L.K . .L.K.

CLASS XXIII
METALLOIDS AND SUNDRY METALS Antimony or regulus of antimony in discs , ingots or lumps :
For industrial and other purposes ......

For analysis or scientific use Cadmium :

Bars , sticks , cylinders or ingots ..L.K .

Granulated .....

... L.K.

For analys..s and scientific use .... R.K. | Cobalt :

Cubes , leaves , ingots or granulated.L.K.

Powder ....

L.K.

Purified, refined or pure ... Chromium

.L.K . .L.K .

Sulphur :

Bars, rolls , cylinders , pieces or

fragments ....

.G.T .

Ground or triturated

.... L.T .

Sublimated , or flowers of sulphur ..L.K .

For analysis or scientific use ..... R.K .

140.00 182.00
Free Free
1.89 5.60 11.13
9.31 29.79 44.59 56.00
21.63 42.00
0.21 1.89

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A323

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff Item
number 913 A 12 923
936
942 945
11 12



c

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Iodine :

Raw or impure , up to 85% ....

Free

Refined , pure and sublimated , bi and re- sublimated

Free

Radium and radium- bearing products ... ad.val . 1% CLASS XXIV

RAW MATERIALS AND SUNDRY PREPARATIONS FOR INDUSTRIAL USE IN PERFUMERIES , PAINTING , DYEWORKS , TANNING AND OTHER PURPOSES .

Mineral or organic chemical fertilisers , natural or artificial , such as calcium- cyanamide , Thomas ' slag , artificial guanos , inpure potassium and sodium nitrates or Chilean salt-
peter , sulphonitrate of ammonium , superphosphate of mineral calcium or of bone , and other fertilisers - all
the above plain or compound , known as suitable for agricultural purposes ....

Free

Active carbons such as Antichromos ,

Carboraffine , Esbit , Hydraffine , Norit ,

Purit , Suchar and the like

L. K

0.56

Cellulose :

Sheets , plates , pulp or paste , Mechanical or chemical

119.70

Rennet

Liquid In powder or tablet

... L.K . .L.K .

0.21 0.70

A324

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDU E III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
number 950
/15
715 /16 123
951 952
/2

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Colours or colouring matters :

Minerals or pigments , natural or artificial :
Whites :

Titanium ; containing :

up to 50% of titanium oxide ...........L.K .

over 50 and up to 75% of titanium

oxide ..

...... L.K.

over 75 and up to 90% of titanium

oxide ...

..L.K.

over 90% of titanium oxide ...... L.K .

Lithopone

.L.K.

Blacks or niggers :

Lamp-black or carbon black ....... L.K .

Artificial organic colours or those derived from coal tar , such as : alzarine , aniline, anthracene , naphthaline and the like , in crystal , pieces , powder , paste , and concentrated or unconcentrated solutions ...... R.K .

Scale removers for boilers , solid or

liquid , with base of tannic extracts ,

carbonates , chlorides and others

n.s ......

... L.K .

Solvents and thinners :

Turpentine : Natural or terebinthine essence :

Common ...

... L.K .

0.70 0.70 0.84 1.05 0.60 0.70
7.42 1.12
0.35

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A325

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

13
15 16 954
13
14 /11 /14 /16 /18 /20 132 139 955 /1 956 /1

artificial or of mineral origin :

Petroleum ether , patent oil ,

petroraz , sangajol and the like , and those distilled from petroleum,

hydrogenated or not , not specified'

and used as solvents and

thinners..

.... L.K.

Diethylphthalate .....

L.K.

Amyl , butyl , ethyl , methyl or

propyl acetates ...

.... L.K.

Essences (Etheroal , volatile , and essencial oils)

For perfumeries :

Acacia, ambergris , cinnamon , gelsomine , geranium, heliotrope ,
iris , hyacinth, lilac , mimosa, narcissus , opoponax, resoda , rose ,
tigio, trofoil , violet , ylan-ylang and others not specifiod ..... ... R.K .

Natural , de-resinod or not :
Rosemary.. ..... Cinnamon....... Citronella .... Clove ..... Orange blossons Geranium . Nutmeg . n.s .....

..R.K . ..R.K .
.R.K . .R.K . .R.K . .R.K . .R.K . ... R.K .

Compound others of cellulose:

Acetyl-cellulose or acetate of cellulose , in powder or grits .... L.K.
Extracts :

Aromatic compound or bouquets
containing 60 to 92% of alcohol ..

.R.K .

Rate of duty
0.70 2.94 3.78
30.80 15.40 40.88 20.44 20.44 509.60 101.92 25.48 40.88
4.20
36.40

A326

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

970 /2 13 14
971 /1 /2 13 14
15

23 + 5

Synthetic perfumes or aromatic chemical products :

Solid or liquid :

Terpinol .... Thymol ..... Vanillin ......

R.K. R.K. R.K.

Anetol , citral , citronellal ,

citronellol , carnacrol , carvona ,

eucalyptol , cugenol , phonone ,

fragarol , geraniol , heliotropine , ionone , jasmone , linalol , nerol ,

neroline , rhodinol , saffrol , santalol , thuyone , iara and other

n.s.., excepted menthone , monthol and cumarino ..

R.K.

Perfumery :
Cologne , Florida and similar waters ; hair lotions and tonics , aromatic salts and vinegars .....
Handkerchief extracts ......

L.K. L.K.

Scent sprays .....

L.K.

For the beard , mouth , hair , teeth and hands , such as :
bandolines , brilliantines , cosmetics , dentifrices , freckle rénovers ( lentilhas) , oils , pastes , pomades , in any shape or form, vaselines and other n.s.M ....

L.K.

For beautifying the eyelashes ,
lips , eyes , skin , face , nails , for attenuating perspiration and smell of the armpits and for hair dyeing , such as waxes, creams , depilatories , enanels , pencils , rice powder , lsiolkuet.i..o.ns , tinctures and the

L.K.

Rate of duty
5.46 7.28 21.84
10.92
34.94 46.59 34.94
29.12
40.77

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A327

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

16
973 /1
974
/1
/13 977
/1
/1 13 979

For the bath, for burning , for
volatilizing , pulverizing or for private hygiene , such as comprimés , crystals , pastilles , solutions , troches or powder , alum in sticks or pieces and talcs .......

L.K.

Moistoners (plastificantes) :

Tricresyl- phosphate and triphenyl- phosphate ....

L.K.

Preparations :

Anticryptogamic , tick- destroying , disinfectant , anticide , insecticide and the like , liquid , paste or powder :

For the destruction of insects

in agriculture , for curing

mange and other parasitic diseases , oxterminating cattle ticks and similar

purposes ......

..... L.K.

Chemical n.s.a. for the textile

industry ......

L.K.

Soaps , sapolios , soapy substances and the like :

Common, ordinary or hard , for

domestic purposes , in bars ,

blocks , flakes or sheets ,

marbled or coloured...

...

L.K.

White or Marseilles soap ....... L.K.

Special for industries : Igepon . L.K.

Tanning materials , synthetic ...... L.K.

Rate of duty
23.30 3.78
0.14 6.02
2.91 2.24 5.16 1.40

A328

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

982 16
17
990 16 18
994 12 13 /10 /12

Paints and inks :

Prepared with oil :

Liquid , ready for use without needing the addition of a solvent or thinner producing
on the surface painted an ordinary , opaque or not very brilliant finish , allowed to
contain up to 2 % natural or artificial resin .....

L.K.

Prepared with cellulose esters :
In paste , dull or matt , for undercoatings , known as primers , surfacers , putty and the like .... L.K.
CLASS XXV

INORGANIC AND ORGANIC CHEMICAL PRODUCTS

Acetates and sub-acetates :

Calcium . Cobalt ..

R.K. R.K.

Acids : Mineral or inorganic : Boric :
For analyses or scientific and medicinal use .....

R.K.

For industrial and other uses ..

R.K.

Phosphoric : Glacial .... Common Liquid or syrupy .........

L.K. L.K.

Rate of duty
1.63 3.27
1.12 6.30
3.22 2.10 5.18 1.12

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A329

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

135
136
179
/82 996
13 17 1005 /2 1006
13 18 1007 1010 /1 12 1014 /2

Organic :
Benzoic : For analyses or scientific and medicinal use..... ...... R.K.
For industrial and other uses R.K.

Salicylic :

For analyses or scientific and

medicinal use ....

R.K.

Sulphanilic ......

R.K.

Sugars and sweetening substances , natural and artificial :

Lactose ( sugar of milk) ........ R.K.

Saccharine ( cool sugar) ................ R.K.

Annoniac :

Compressed or liquified . ................ R.K. Anhydrides :

Arsenious or white arsenic : For industrial uses ......

R.K.

Phthalic .....

R.K.

Aniline or oil of aniline ... Anthraceno :

R.K.

For analyses or scientific use For industrial and other uses

R.K. R.K.

Arsenates :

Lead ...

R.K.

24.22 4.48
5.04 3.78
1.54 12.72
2.24
1.40 4.20 1.89
86.66 7.42 0.24

A330

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1015 /15
1020 /11
1033 14
/13 /17 1042
14 15 /14 128
148
154
158 759

Arsonitos :

Sodiun.... Benzoatos :
Sodium .... Carbonates :
Acids or bicarbonates :

R.K. R.K.

Sodium (Bicarbonato of soda) R.K.

Neutral :

Annonium... Copper .. Chlorides :

R.K. R.K.

Annoniun:

For analyses or scientific and medicinal uso......

R.K.

For industrial and other uses.....

R.K.

Calcium . Ethyl ...... Potassium:

R.K. R.K.

For analyses or scientific and medicinal use .....
Sodium :

R.K.

For analyses or scientific and

medicinal use...

....

Zinc :

R.K.

For analyses or scientific and medicinal use.......
For industrial and other uses.

R.K. R.K.

1.47 3.78
0.70 2.24 3.24
3.08 1.40 0.70 11.20
1.40
1.40
1.26 0.72

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A331

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff iton
number

Description of Products

1052 1066 1076
/2 1080
14 15 1085 13 14 1086 14 15 1093
14
15 16 17

Diethyleneglycol or diethylenic glycol .....
Diorthotoluone guanidine ....

R.K. R.K.

Ethyleneglycol or ethylenic glycol :
For industrial and other usos .....

R.K.

Phonylenediamines : Para :

For analyses or scientific use .. k.K. For industrial and other uses ... R.K.

Ferricyanides :

Potassium (rod prussiato ) ....... R.K.

Sodiun ...

R.K.

Ferrocyanides :

Potassium ( yellow prussiate ) .... R.K.

Sodium....

R.K.

Phosphates : Calciun :

Acid or nonobasic .

R.K.

Neutral or bibasic

For analyses or scientific and medicinal use .... ..... R.K.

For industrial and other uses R.K.

Basic or tribasic ....

R.K.

Rate of duty
1.12 1.54
2.24
14.00 5.60 2.80 2.80 1.54 1.54
2.10
3.92 2.10 2.94

A332

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1119 1137
/2
/12 /13
/28
/31 1159
13 1160
/1 12
/13
/14 /15

Mercaptobenzothiazol .. Nitrates of azotates :

..L.K .

Anmoniun.

..R.K .

Load :

For analyses or scientific

uso....

..R.K .

For industrial and other uses ......
Potassium:

R.K.

For analyses or scientific

and medicinal use ...

R.K.

Sodium:

For industrial and other purposes ... Oxi-chlorides :
Copper .... Oxides (nono , proto or sesqui ) :

R.T. R.K.

Antimony :
For analyses or scientific and medicinal use .....

R.K.

For industrial use and other

purposes ....

R.K.

Cobalt :

For analyses or scientific and medicinal use..................... . R.K.

For industrial and other uses :

Blue Black..

R.K. R.K.

2.52 1.54 0.98 0.42 1.12 182.00 7.42
4.48 0.77 21.84 20.72 8.40

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A333

SCHEDULE III .- BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff iten
number

Doscription of Products

Rate of duty

142 1171 1181
/2 1197
16 /15 134
136 738 1207
12
13
16
/20 /21

Zinc or zinc white : For industrial and other uses R.T.

Perborate of sodiun ..

R.K.

Pyrophosphates : Sodiun....

R.K.

Sulphates :

Antimony ..

R.K.

Cobalt .....

R.K.

Potassium.

R.K.

Sodium : Neutral ( Glauber salt ) :
For industrial and other purposos R.T.

Zinc .....

R.K.

Sulphides : Antimony : Trisulphide .

R.K.

Pentasulphide or golden sulphur of antimony:
For analyses or scientific and medicinal use ... ............ R.K.

For industrial and other

uses ...

R.K.

Bariun ..

Sodium:
For analyses and scientific and medicinal uses .... ...............
For industrial use and other purposos ...

R.K. R.K.

770.00 1.54 0.91 0.77
11.90 0.84
59.50 0.96
2.24
7.00 2.94 Free
0.70 0.35

72

95347 0-49-pt. 5- 22

A334

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff iten
number

Description of Products

1209
/1 1221 1225 1231
12
/4 16

Tartrates :
Acids or bitartrates : Potassium (cream of tartar) For analyses or scientific and medicinal use ..

R.K.

Triphenylguonidine .... Trinitrotoluene or trinitrotoluol ..

R.K. R.K.

Xanthates or xanthogenates : Sodiun :

For industrial and other usos...

R.K.

Potassium :

For industrial and othor uses R.K.

n.s.a :

Ethyl ....

R.K.

Rate of duty
4.62 1.96 0.70
2.54 1.54 1.4

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A335

SCHEDULE III- BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products CLASS XXVI

1250
12 13 15 19 /11 /12 /17 /19 /21 /23 /24 /25 /28
132 134 135 137 /39 140

DRUGS , CHEMICAL REMEDIES , PHARMACEUTICAL AND DIETETIC AND OTHERS FOR
MEDICINAL PURPOSES

Alkaloids , their derivatives and salts :

Apomorphine Arecoline

R.Gr. R.Gr.

Atropine

R.Gr.

Cinchonine and cinchonidine R.K.

Codeine (methylmorphine) ... R.Gr.

Colchicine ....

R.Gr.

Duboisine or hyoscyamine ... R.Gr.

Ephedrine

R.Gr.

Ergotinine

R.Gr.

Eserine or physostigmine ... R.Gr.

Sparteine Strychnine ....

R.Gr. R.Gr.

Euquinine ( ethylcarbonate of

quinine ) ..

R.K.

Hydrastinine

R.Gr.

Ibogaine ....

R.Gr.

Lobeline

R.Gr.

Narceine

R.Gr.

Narcotine

R.Gr.

Nicotine

R.Gr.

Rate of duty
1.54 0.42 0.70 37.24 0.70 17.08 0.70 0.14 6.30 2.24 0.14 0.14
59.50 2.94 2.94 0.98 1.12 1.54 0.70

A336

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I (Continued )

Brazilian Tariff Item
number 141 145 152 155
1274
1293 /2 13
1369 /1 12 13
1382
1393 /1 /2

Description of Products

Papaverine Quinine

R.Gr.

Thiocine or theophylline ..... Yohimbine

R.Gr. R.Gr.

Note : The foregoing concessions apply only to salts and not to pharmaceutical products .

Mepacrine Hydrochloride , Mepacrine

bethanesulphonate , Pamaquim ,

Praequine , Paludrine , Quino-

plasmine .....

..... R.K.

Amylaceous or gelatinous medicinal capsules :

Cod liver oil .....

.... R.K.

n.s.m.

R.K.

....

Granulated medicines :

Dosimetric

R.K.

Humphrey's n.s.m. ....

R.K. R.K.

Hexal ( acid sulphosalicylate of hexamethylenetetramine ) and Neohexal ( neutral sulphosalicylate of hexamethylenetetramine) ...... R.K.

Medicinal injections or injectable solutions :

Defined inorganic and organic chemical product bases ....... R.K.

Hormotherapic and opotherapic

substances bases

R.K.

Rate of duty 0.70 Free 0.28 0.14
11.13
44.52 112.00 182.00 327.60 291.20
74.34
109.20 182.00

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30 , 1947

A337

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff Item
number 1460
16 1464 1507
1530

Description of Products

Preparations : Disinfectant or antiseptic : Creoline and the like ...... L.K.
Quinine ....

Trioxymethylene (paraform or

paraformaldehyde ) .....

..... R.K.

Any drugs , chemical medicines and preparations for internal or external use , n.s.m. ex Penicillin , pure ....

Rate of duty
1.54 Free 2.94 Free

A338

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number
1534 /1 12 13
1535 /1
13 14 1536 /1 12



L



Description of Products

CLASS XXVII

ARMAMENTS AND OTHER GUNSMITHS ' WARES , AMMUNITION AND WAR MATERIAL

Barrels :

Smooth: For guns.. For pistols .
Rifled :

... each ..each

For rifles.....

..each

For revolvers , automatic pistols and the like ......

each

Cartridges and cartridge cases :

Loaded :

Shot or bullet ...

..L.K .

With powder or explosive compound

.... L.K .

Empty (cases) , with or without primers :

Of base metal.. ..R

..L.K .

Of paste- board ....

.L.K .

Stocks :

Small , for pistols revolvers and the like....
Large, for arms generally ,

.... each .... each

Rate of duty
10.22 5.18
20.44 10.22
5.20 7.80 20.80 10.40 5.04 7.70

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A339

Brazilian Tariff item
number 1540
/1
13 14 15 /8 1541
/1 12 13 14 1542 1553 15







SCHEDULE III BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Guns , rifles , carbines and the like :

Sporting : Muzzle loading :
Single- barrelled ..

.each

Double-barrelled ....

.each

Breech loading : Single-barrelled ..... Double-barrelled .... Treble- barrelled ..

..each .each .each

For target - shooting , of any quality .....
Caps or primers ( espoletas ) :

.each

For muzzle- loading guns and pistols :

Striated , ribbed or grooved ..... L.K . Plain or smooth , called " BB " .... L.K .

For cartridges , so- called primers ..
n.s.m...

.L.K . .L.K .

Fuses , Bickford's Fuses and the like .....

.L.K .

Pistols : Automatic and revolvers ..... per shot

20.80 41.60
43.68 87.36 182.00 36.40
23.40 104.00
23.40 15.60
6.20
8.68

A340

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number
1566 /1 12
13 14 15
16
17 18 19
/ 10

Description of Products

CLASS XXVIII CUTLERY AND ACCESSORIES

Scissors , shears and clippers :

Clippers for the beard or hair ,

with spring ....

... each

Shears for blacksmith or tinsmith , with or without spring ..... ... each

Scissors for cutting hair , leather , tissues , nails and the like:

Up to 10 cm . in length ........... L.K .

More than 10 but under 25 cm.

in length ......

... L.K .

25 cm. or more in length ...... ..L.K .

For gardens and other purposes :

Small , with spring, for cutting flowers or pruning and the like..each

Large:

With handles of wood , base metal and the like , for cutting grass.each

For lopping trees .....

... each

For shearing animals , cutting

bristles or animal hair, with or

without spring ..

... each

n.s.m..

... L.K.

Rate of duty
6.08 3.04
61.15 30.58 15.29
2.55
5.09 2.55 0.98 30.58

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A341

SCHEDULE III BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number
1575 /1 12
13 1576
/1 12 13 14
15 16 17

Description of Products

CLASS XXIX WATCH AND CLOCKMAKERS ' WARES Manufactured wares :

Alarm clocks : With case of wood or base metal.each

With case of alabaster , jasper ,

marble , porphyry and similar

stones , whalebone , horn , bone ,

plastic materials , earthenware

(louça ) , glass and the like , or

covered with leather .....

... each

With case of mother- of- pearl ,

ivory , tortoise - shell , gilt or

silvered metal ...

... each

Watches and clocks : Watches or wrist - watches :

Without complicated works

Gold or platinum ..

.... each

Silver , plain , gilt or oxidized..each

Base metal .....

... each

Base metal , whether gilt , silvered or gold plated ....

each

With complicated works , such as chronographs , chronometers , repeater , with independent seconds , striking the hours , and the like :

Gold or platinum....

each

Silver , plain, gilt or oxidized..each

Base metal ............ .

..each

Rate of duty
8.19
16.38 32.76
30.52 12.18
6.16 9.24
91.70 24.50 12.18

565

A342

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

Brazilian Tariff item
number /8 19
/10 /11
/12 /13
/14 715
/16 /17 /18

SCHEDULE III .- BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Base metal , whether gilt , silvered

or gold plated .....

...... each

Of any kind , with pearls , diamonds , emeralds , opals , rubies or sapphires.each
Standing clocks :

With case of wood or base metal :

Up to 40 cm . on the largest dimension ......

.each

Over 40 cm . on the largest dimension , ...

each

With case of alabaster , jasper ,
marble , porphyry and similar stones , whale-bone , horn, bone , plastic materials , earthenware ( louça) , glass and the like , or covered with leather :

Up to 40 cm . largest dimension ..... each

Over 40 cm . largest dimension ...... each

With case of mother- of- pearl , ivory , tortoise- shell , gilt or silvered metal :

Up to 40 cm . on largest dimension..each

More than 40 cm. on largest dimension................

each

Wall or hanging clocks , with or without pendulum:
With case of wood or base metal :
Up to 65 cm. on largest dimension.each

Over 65 and up to 100 cm. ditto..each

Over 100 cm. ditto ....

..each

18.34 305.76
43.68 58.24
109.20 182.00 145.60 218.40
50.96 58.24 72.80

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A343

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number
/19 /20 /21
/22 123 /24
/25 126
/27 /28
729 130 /31 132

Description of Products

Rate of duty

With case of whalebone , horn, bone
plastic materials , earthenware , glass and the like or covered with leather :

Up to 65 cm. on largest dimension..each

Over 65 and up to 100 cm. ditto ... each

Over 100 cm. ditto .....

.... each

With case of mother-of- pearl , ivory , tortoise- shell , gilt or silvered metal :

Up to 65 cm. on largest dimension..each

More than 65 and up to 100 cm.ditto.each

Over 100 cm. ditto .....

... each

Clocks for standing on the floor, or in cupboard form :

With case of wood , plain or smooth ... each

With case of wood, gilt or silvered , with carvings , inlaid or marquetry
work, or ornaments of any material other than gold , platinum or silver..each

Precision or pendulum clocks ( chrono-

meters) .....

.... each

Watchmen's clocks , excluding the

leather strap ...

..oach

Clocks registering by pressure , with seal:

Standing Portable

... each ... each

Automobile watches

...each

Service recorders and the like ....... each

58.24 72.80 94.64
87.36 101.92 131.00
291.20
436.80 218.40
21.84
145.60 58.24 21.84 72.80

A344

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL FAST I ( Continued)

Brazilian
Tariff item number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Clocks for public walks , buildings and towers :

/33

Up to 2 dials ...

each

/34

More than 2 dials

each

Time recorders for offices , factories or workshops staffs :

/35

Printing on paper bobbins .

each

/36

Printing on cards

each

/37

Printing on pay sheets

each

/38

n.8.m.

CLASS XXX

364.00 728.00
364.00 509.60 873.40 25% ad valorem

1579 /1 12
1580
1581 1582
/1

PHYSICAL , CHEMICAL , MATHEMATIC.L AND OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS , APPARATUS , ENGINES
AND APPLIANCES
Alidades and similar instruments :

With pinules with telescope

each each

Ampere-meters , electro -meters , galvano-

meters , ohm-meters , volt -meters , watt-

meters , and the like , for electrical

measurements ...

..... each

Hourglasses ....

each

Anemometers and the like for measuring the velocity of the wind :
Portable , plain or ordinary .. ..... each

7.84 25.90
15.96 0.98
15.54

12

n.s.m. including recorders such as

anemographs , anemos oopes and the

like

each

103.74

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A345

SCHEDULE III BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1583 /1

Apparatus :

Electric sound amplifiers for musical

instruments , radios , gramophones and

the like

..... L.K. 10.36

Photographic or cameras , including verascopes :

For negatives less than 13 x 18 cms . with or without lenses :

/6

Weighing up to 200 gr . L.K. 37.80

17

Weighing over 200 up to 600 gr . L.K. 35.00

/8

Weighing over 600 gr . up to

1 Kilo . ...

L.K. 30.80

19

Weighing over 1 Kilo . ......

L.K. 28.00

/10

Box type , also known as Brownie ,

with ordinary Meniscus lens with

fixed aperture

L.K. 18.20

/11

For negatives from 13 x 18 cms.with

or without lenses ....

L.K. 35.00

For negatives of cinematograph films , with or without lenses :

/12

For films up to 16 mm . width....... L.K. 42.00

/13

Ditto over 16 mm width

L.K. 35.00

/14

For reproduction or enlarging ..... L.K. 14.00

Gasogens :

/15

Briet's and the like

L.K. 5.18

/16

n.s.m.

L.K. 2.66

A346

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff Item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

/17 /18 /19 /20 /21 /22 1584 /1
12 1585
/1
12
/3
1586
1587 1588
/1

Telephone , telegraph , wireless telephone , telegraph and television receivers and transmitters , including wireless- gramophones , any of their unclassified accessories and parts :

Weighing up to 10 kg .

.... L.K.

Weighing over 10 up to 50 kg ..

L.K.

.....

Weighing over 50 up to 100 kg ...... L.K.

Weighing over 100 up to 250 kg . L.K.

Weighing over 250 up to 500 kg .. ... L.K.

Weighing over 500 kg ..

L.K.

Scales :

Precision or analytic , with or

without case ....

.... L.K.

Hydrostatic ....

L.K.

Barometers :

Gay-Lussac's , Buten's and the like , dial of any system and Vidi's .... each

( aneroids ) Quadrant of any kind and

vidi ........

.... each

Fortin's , Richard's registering , barographs , thermographs and the like . each

Ship's logs of metal , with or without

odometer ....

.... L.K.

Magnetic bars for mariner's compasses each Mariners ' compasses ;

Small , watch- shape , pocket , plain or

with meridian



17.78 14.28 10.71 9.52 7.56 5.74
14.20 9.46
5.18 15.55 25.93 10.37 1.00
3.09

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -- OCT. 30, 1947

A347

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
number 12 13
/4 /5 /6
1589
1590 1591 1592
/1 12 1593 1594



Description of Products

Rate of duty

With pinnules and tubular compasses

for Alidade tables

each

Geological , with metal case , prismatic

and the like ..

each

Large , surveyors ' : Plain ....

each

With telescope and spirit levels . each

With telescope spirit levels and

semi -circle

each

For ships ' binnacles and others

n.s.m.

each

Surveyors ' chains , of base metal .....

Camerae lucidae with prisms , lenses and

mirror

each

Cinematograph machines , their access-

ories and parts n.8.m...........

L.K.

Drawing compasses with dry- point or note:

Quarter circle , rod , elliptic and

reduction compasses

L.K.

n.8.m.

L.K.

Thread counters ....

L.K.

Pooket spedometers , odometers , "passi-
metros" or pedometers , second- counters and the like , for pocket use ....... ea oh

5.18
10.37
10.37 15.55
20.75
103.70 Duties as on manufactures n.s.m.according to ind reduced by 35% . 15.55
15.95
25.93 20.75 15.55
4.18

A348

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III BR.ZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
number 1595 1596
1597 1598
/1 12 /3
14 /5
/6 1599
/1 12 /3

223

223

Description of Products

Curvimeters

sach

Densimeters or areometers , such as

alcoholometers , acetimeters , liqueur-

meters , syrupmeters and the like

each

Dynamometers ....

L.K.

Graduated scales , measures and rules :

Iron or steel

L.K.

Other base metal ....

L.K.

Whalebone , horn , cone , wood or plastic and similar materials .... L.K.

Ivory ....

L.K.

of any material , for calculations ; pocket calculators and the like .. L.K.

n.s.m.

L.K.

Crosshead staves and set squares : Surveyor: ( crosshead staves ) with compass .... without compass

each each

Drawings : ( set squares ) Graduated ....

Non-graduated

Rate of duty
5.18
1.00 4.55
4.18 13.00
20.75 77.80
51.80 41.50
10 37 5.18
Duties as on scales ( item 1548 ) Duties as on manufactured n.s.m. according to kind .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A349

SCHEDULE III BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tanirf item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1600

Stereoscopes :

/1

Small , of common wood or card-

board

.... each 2.63

12

Small , of fine wood , of base

metal or covered with leather or

velvet

each 15.55

/3 1601
/1 12 /3 1602

Large , with column , of any kind ,

also those n.s.m.

each

Cinematograph films: Developed and fixed : Up to 16 mm . in width

...K .

Over 16 mm . in width

2.K.

Unexposed Graphimeters

R.K. , each

51.87
39.90 79.78 7.98 25.93

/1 /2
/3 1604
/1 12 /3 14

Graphometers : With nules and compass .....

.each

With pinules compass and teles-

cope ...

each

n.s.m.

... each

Hydrometers or water consumption meters , and parts and accessories thereof n.s.m. weighing :

Up to 5 kg .....

..L.K .

Over 5 up to 10 kg .

..L.K .

Over 10 up to 25 kg.

..L.K .

Over 25 up to 50 kg .

..L.K .

10.37 25.93 41.50
4.20 3.57 3.04 2.73

95347 0-49--pt. 5- -23

A350

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL

PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

15 /6 1605

Over 50 up to 100 kg . ................ Over 100 g Hygrometers and hygroscopes :

L.K. L.K.

/1

Common , with figure , with hair

or gut , mounted on cardboard or

wood

each

12

of metal , with hair or gut ,

Saussure's and the like ....... cach

/3

lluard's , Grova's , Daniell's ,

Regnault's and the like .... each

1+ 1606 1607
/1

n.s.m. Hypsometers Artificial horizons :
Glass , with spirit level

each each
each

.....

12 1608 1609
1610
1611 1613

Metal , with mercury .......... each

Magnets of any shapu , armatures and

electro - magnets

..... L.K.

Water-gauges , gas -gauges and the

like , with or without registering

apparatus , and accessories of

same ....

L.K.

Integrators , intrographs , eidographs and the like , with or without reducing scales

each

Kaleidoscopes or magic glasses ... each

Magic lanterns , epidiascopes and

the like

L.K.

Rate of duty 2.41 2.10
1.54 5.18 10.37 31.12 25.93
7.83 15.55 5.18
4.18
25.93 2.37 9.46

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A351

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1614

Fitted lonses for reading , sighttesting , engraving , watch or olook making and the like

L.I.

1615

Linimeters , linigraphs , tide gauges ,

Mareographs , tide - meters or mareo-

meters ....

each

1616 Manometers and the like ....

... each

1617 1618

Fraction , induction and other machines

such as Ramsden's , Carré's , Holtz ' ,

Voss ' , for electricity study or

experiment

... L.K.

Microphones and loudspeakers ...... L.K.

1619

Micrometers , calibrating apparatus and

the like

L.I.

1620 Microscopes , monocular or binocular :

/1

Simple ....

each

Compound :

12

With fixed stage , including three

objectives and three eyepieces , each

/3

With movable stage , including four

objectives and four eyepieces , and

others n.s.m.

each

1621 Microtomes

L.K.

1622

Current-meters for measuring hydraulic

discharges

each

1623 Levels :

/1

air, with copper tubes , precision each

/2

Clinometers , clisimeters or

eclimeters

.... each

/3

American type , Egault's , Zeiss '

and others n.s.m.

each

46.68 51.87 15.55
5.18 9.10 7.83 7.83
25.93 77.80 5.18 25.93 2.63 15.55 51.87

A352

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
number 1624 1625
/1
12 /3
14
/5

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Objectives , eyepieces , condensers and

lenses , with or without shutters , for

photographic apparatus or for all optical apparatus

L.K.

Eyeglasses : binocular :

Marine binoculars , travelling and

the like , magnifying up to six-

fold , with or without internal

reflection prisms , with base metal

tubes , whether or not covered

with leather

each

The same , magnifying over sixfold ....
Opera glasses , with or without handle :

each

of base metal , plain , varnished ,

painted chromium- plated , nickelled or covered with whale-

bone , horn , bone , earthen-

ware , glass or plastic and similar materials

each

Of base metal , gilt , silvered
or covered with mother- of - pearl , ivory or tortoiseshell ........ each

Monocular :
Spy-glasses , marine and field telescopes and the like , with or without sliding tubes of baso metal , covered or not with leather .

Weighing : Up to 1.500 gr .

each

46.68
15.55 25.93
14.20 37.86
15.55

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30 , 1947

A353

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number 16
17
/8 19 /10 /11 1626 1627 1629 1630 11 /2 /3



Description of Products

Rate of duty

Over 1.500 gr. , with or without

standing device , except tri-

podes

L.K.

Monooles and spectacles :

Fixed and similar such as spectacles ,
monocles ( lorgnons ) quizzing glass (faces à main ) with case or handle , pince-nez and goggles for aviators , motorcar drivers , for the squinteyed' and others , with mounting:

Of base metal , plain , varnished ,

painted , chromium- plated or

nickelled , of whalebone , horn ,

bone or plastic and similar

material ....

.... dozen

of gilt or silvered base metal dozen

of tortoiseshell ......

each

of plain or gilt silver

each

of gold

each

Ophthalmometers

each

Octants and sextants

each

Optometers or astigmometers , peri-

meters and the like

each

Pantographs and cymographs :
Common , with rulers of common wood .....
of fine wood

each each

of base metal , and precision ..... each

10.37
11.37 22.75 3.82 2.63 15.55 103.70 31.20 25.93
3.09 10.37 25.93

A354

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1631

Pantometers and the like :

/1

With compass and graduated

circle .....

each

41.50

12 1632
/1 12 /3

With telescope ..

each

Electric dry cells , separate or in batteries :

Weighing up to 50 gr.....

.... L.K.

Weighing over 50 up to 100 gr..... L.K.

Weighing over 100 ap to 500 gr .... L.K.

77.80
2.10 1.82 1.68

14
/5 1633

Weighing over 500 grams up to

1 kg....

.... L.K.

Weighing over 1 kg .....

L.K.

Pitometers .....

each

1.54 1.40 15.54

1634 /1 12
1635

Plates and roll-films for photography :

On glass

L.K.

On any other material

L.K.

Planimeters ....

each

0.84 1.54 25.93

1636 1637

Pluviometers or udometers , pluviographs and the like ...

each

Polarimeters , colorimeters , spectro-

scopes , photometers , refractometers ,

saccharimeters and the like ....

L.K.

10.37 6.19

1638

Potentiometers

L.K.

18.20

1639

Plumb-lines , precision and patent , for nautical use

each

15.55

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A355

SCHEDULE III - BR..ZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
number 1640
/1 /2 /3 1641
/1 /2 /3 1642

Description of Products

Psychrometers , maximum and minimum :

On wood

.each

On metal

.each

Registering

.each

Levelling staffs :

Of wood and sliding , with sight ... each

The same , self- reading ..

.each

n.s.m.

.each

Seismographs and sexagesimal or Foucault's pendulums

1643
1645 /1 12 /3
1646 /1 12
1647
1648

Tachometers , cinemographs , cinemo-

meters , dromometers , velocimeters

and the like

..each

Technographs , complete :

For drawing boards 60 x 80 cm ... each

Ditto 100 x 150 cm ...

each

Ditto 125 x 200 cm.

each

Telemeters : Up to 1.000 m. Over 1.000 m .....

... each each

Astronomical telescopes , meridian

instruments and the like

L.K.

Theodolites , merican transits , tachymeters , phototachymeters and the like

each

Rate of duty
6.19 15.55 25.93
7.83 15.55 31.12 1.3% ad . valorem
10.37
25.93 41.50 62.24
10.37 20.75 5.18
103.70

A356

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
number 1649
/1 12 /3
14 /5
/7 /8 /9

166

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Thermometers :

Maximum or minimum:

For clinical examination ...... each

For other purposes :

Mounted on mother- of- pearl or

ivory scale

each

Mounted on scales of other

materials ; gold , platinum and

silver excepted ...

each

Maximum and minimum :

Mounted on mother- of- pearl or

ivory scale

each

Mounted on scales of other

materials ; gold , platinum

and silver excepted

.....

each

n.s.m .:

For water temperature , protected or not by wood or metal ....... each

For scientific purposes , with high precision sub - divisions .. each
For chemical purposes , protected or not by wood or metal ......... each

n.s.m.

each

1.36
6.19 2.09
10.37 4.18
1.54 7.83 2.09 10.37

199

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A357

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number 1650
1651
/1
12 13
1652
/1 12 /3 14 /5 16 1653 1654
/1 12 1655 /1 12

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Drawing pens , map- meters or opsiometers and the like ...

L.K.

Protractors :

Semi - circle :

Of whalebone , horn , bone , wood or plastic and similar materials

each

Of base metal

each

Rectangular , with or without plummet and those n.s.m ....... each

Transformers , static , electric current ,
sound frequency , and the like , water , air or oilcooled :

Weighing up to 10 kg.. ....

L.K.

Weighing over 10 up to 100 kg .... L.K.

Weighing over 100 up to 200 kg ... L.K.

Weighing over 200 up to 500 kg ... L.K.

Weighing over 500 up to 2,000 kg . L.K.

Weighing over 2,000 kg..

L.K.

Air- bubble tubes , for levels

each

Valves or tubes for wireless transmitting and receiving apparatus :

Weighing up to 100 gr .

.... L.K.

Weighing over 100 gr .

L.K.

Glasses for fixed optical instruments :

Unfinished , not polished

L.K.

Finished

L.K.

25.93
0.82 1.54 4.18
3.15 2.94 2.10 1.68 1.68 0.84 0.56
29.40 37.80
23.94 47.88

A358

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number 1656
12 /3 1657 /1 /2 13 14
1658 /1 12

.... /



Description of Products

Rate of duty

Views :

On metal or glass , photographed for

storeoscope , and the like

each

1.00

On glass , positive , for magic lanterns

each

0.55

On glass , positives , with frames of wood , base metal , cardboard , plastic and similar materials ..... each

Any apparatus , instruments , machines , objects and components , n.s.m .:

Steel or iron

..L.K .

Other base metal

.L.K .

3.09
5.18 10.37

Clay, earthenware ( louça ) or

glass

... L.K .

6.19

Whalebone , rubber , horn , ebonite ,

bone , wood or plastic and similar

materials .....

..L.K .

15.55

Mother-of- pearl , ivory , tortoiseshell , gold , platinum or silver ........

same duties as on n.s.m. manufactures of these materials

CLASS XXXI

SURGICAL , MEDICAL , ODONTOLOGIC.L AND VETERINARY APPAR..TUS , INSTRUMENTS AND PLL.NCES

Abdominal retractors and the like :

Plain

.L.K .

33.52

Autostatic

.L.K .

44.69

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A359

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
Number 1659
/1
12 /3 14
15 /6
1660 1661
/1 12 /3 1662 1663 /1

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Needles : Cataract and the like

each

For hypodermic injections , with base metal extension :

of stcel or iron

L.K.

Of nickel or other base metal .. L.K.

of platinum , iridized or not ... R.Gr.

For suture , Cooper's and similar , of base metal :

With handles :

With spring ...

each

Without spring

each

Without handle

L.K.

Lovers , forccps , tweezers and like , for extracting teeth or roots ....
Probos , bougies , cannulas , catheters and sounds :
of rubber and the like
Of base metal ...
of silver
mygdalotomes , adenotomes and the like

each
L.K. L.K. R.K. L.K.

pparatus :
Amplifying , electric or not , for deafness

each

2.84
67.03 83.79 0.88
2.25 1.37 83.79 3.33
22.34 33.52 139.65 55.86
28.00

A360

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

12

For anaesthesia or narcosis ,

including accompanying masks

.L.K .

16.80

13

Aspirators : Debove's , Dieulafoy's ,

Potein's , and the like

each

19.60

14

Esmarch's compressing and the

like ..

.... each

11.20

Electro - surgical , electro - dental , electrotherapeutical , electro - diagnostic for radio- therapy and radio - diagnosis , X-,violet and other rays , high frequency , cataphoresis , cauterization , diathermy , medicinal electrolysis , faradization , heat -generating and the like , with all their electrical accessories such as :
motors , pantostats , rheostats , transformers , exclusive only of ampoules , lamps , tubes , burners or valves for X- , violet or other rays:

/5

Up to 5 kg ......

L.K.

16

Over 5 up to 10 kg.

L.K.

/7

Over 10 up to 50 kg .

L.K.

/8

Over 50 up to 100 kg .....

L.K.

/9

Over 100 up to 500 kg .

L.K.

/10

Over 500 kg

L.K.

15.96 10.64 7.98 6.44 4.76 3.22

/12

Precision oxygenators , Bayeux and

the like .....

L.K.

/13

For artificial pneumothorax ...

L.K.

22.34 16.76

/14

For measuring arterial pressure ,

sphygmographs and the like , with or

without oscillometers ....

L.K.

44.69

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A361

SCHEDULE III BR..ZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

/15
/16 1664

Pulverizers , etherizers and the

like

.... each

For blood transfusion ....

L.K.

Basiotribes , cephalotribes or cranio-

clasts , craniotomes or cephalotomes ,

embryotomes , forceps , skull - perfora-

tors and the like

L.K.

8.43 14.01
27.93

1665 /1

Bistouries , scalpels and lancets :
With handles of whalebone , horn , bone , wood , base metal , rubber or plastic or similar material ...... each

1.57

/2

With handles of mother- of - pearl ,

ivory , tortoise - shell or gilt or

silvered metal

each

3.04

1666 1668

Blepharostatus

L.K.

bdominal , hypogastric and umbilical bandages :

89.38

/1
12 1669

Of silk or rayon throughout or with

any other material

... L.K.

n.s.m. ...

L.K.

Cystotomes , cystoscopes , urethrotomes

and urethroscopes

L.K.

122.30 30.58
83.79

1670 /1 /2 /3
1671 1672

Fasteners , clips or hooks for suture :

of base etl

L.K.

Of platinum Of silver ...

R.Gr R.K.

Car trumpets

each

Costotomes

L.K.

33.52 0.88 139.65 2.25 33.52

A362

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDUL III · BRAZIL PT I ( Continued )

Brazilian
Tariff item number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1673 12
13 /5
/6
1674 1675
/1 12 /3 1676
1677 /1 /2
1678

Surgical dressings :

Catgut , horsehair , thread of aluminium,

oopper , linen , silk or rayon and the

like , for sutures , also drainage

tubes of rubber or base metal , in

glass ampoules or tubes containing an

antiseptic liquid or any antiseptic

substance

L.K.

Silver thread , for suture , as for

catgut ...

L.K.

Gauze , plain or imprognated with

antiseptic or modicinal substancu ,

in strips , pioces or bandages of any

fabric ..

.. L.K.

Laminarias tents in glass tubes

containing an antiseptic liquid or

any antiseptic substance

L.K.

Curettes

L.K.

Artificial teeth :

On wax or any other material ..... L.K.

Loose or in sets and other similar piocos ...

L.K.

In rows or show sizes , on metallic

plates

L.K.

Dilators :

rectal , urethral , uterine and the

like

L.K.

Discs for dental surgery: of rubber , shomoy felt and the likeL.K . of carborundum or encry .......... L.K.
mpoules , lamps , tubes or burners , and valves of common glass or of quartz with mercury , for X- ray and other apparatus , with or without frame of base metal each

2.24 28.00
9.43 3.36 44.80 239.40 478.80 15.96
44.69 15.29 7.64
111.72

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A363

SCHEDULE II - BRAZIL PART I · ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff Item
Number 1679 1680
1681
1682 12
12 13
1683 /1 12
1684 1685
s 12 1686 11 /2 1687
1688
/1 /2
2 1689

22

Description of Products
Enterotomes .....
Scarificators with springs for cupping glasses ...
Scissors , gouges , raspatories and the like
Specula : Of earthenware , ( loupa) wood, plastic materials , glass and the like
Of base metal : For the mouth, nose and ears , with or without handles ... Vaginal , intra-uterine , rectal and the like ....
Surgical or dental mirrors : With handles or with any device for adaptation to the forehead Without handles
Esthesiometers ..
Stethoscopes and plessimeters: Of plastic materials or base metals and the like ...... of wood .. .........
Stylets , tent-probes , tenacula , sounds and the like :
Of base metal Of silver ....
Knives for amputations , resections and the like ....
Beparate instruments : for dental surgery:
Por cauterizing , lancing gums, cleaning (bores and pins) obturating the teeth and the like : With handles Without handles For removing nerves , and dentalcanal sounds : With handles Without handles
Fleams

L.K. L.K. L.K.
L.K.
L.K. L.K.
L.K. L.K. L.K.
each each-
R.K. R.K. each
L.K. L.K. L.K. L.K. each

Rate of Duty 44.69 33.52 33.52
22.34
44.88 33.52
33.52 55.86 55.86
5.59 3.33
33.52 139.65
3.33
: 44.69 83.79
1.37

A364

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III · BRAZIL PART I - (Continued )

Brazilian Tariff Item
Number 1690
/1
1/2
15 16 1691
1692 1694
/1 12 1695 1696 /1
1697
1698 1699
1702
1703 /1 /2
1704 /1 /2







Description of Products

Hernia trusses , with or without spring , covered with any material :

Ordinary :
Single Double

each each

Screw : Single ... Double

each each

Electro-magnetic : Single Doublo

each each

Laryngoscopes , pharyngoscopes , ophthalmoscopes , otoscopes , rhinoscopes and the like ........

L.K.

Lithotomes and lithotriptors .... L.K.

Hammers : For autopsy , surgery and percussion Automatic , for dentists

L.K. L.K.

Masks , for anaesthesia

L.K.

Elastic hosiery : Of cotton, wool or linen fabric L.K. of silk or rayon fabric , pure or mixed with another material L.K.

Operating tables , wholly of steel or iron or with parts of other materials
Artificial yes ....

L.K. each

Hand devices for surgical , dental ,

electrosurgical or electrodiagnostic

apparatus , i struments and machines

such as an les , counter- angles ,

handles , cautory handles , mandrils ,

sticks and the like

L.K.

Surgical pincers , articulated or

not ...

.... L.K.

Platcs and screws for osteosynthesis :

Of base metal

L.K.

Of platinum of silver ...

R.Gr. R.K.

Points for galvano- cautery , thermo-cautery and the like :
Of base metal
Of platinum

L.K. R.Gr.

Rate of Duty
1.67 2.84 3.92 7.84 10.09 19.60
44.69 33.52
27.93 55.86 16.76
35.67 71.34
2.55 1.67
33.52 33.52 22.34 0.88 139.65
100.55 0.88

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A365

SCHEDULE III BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
number 1705 /1 /2 1706
1708 1710 1713 1714 1715
1735
11 /2 13 1736

Description of Products

Needle-holders , caustic holders , stone-holders and the like :

Of base metal

L.K.

Of silver

R.K.

Preparations for obturating the

teeth, in paste , liquid or in

powder .....

R.K.

Saws and pad-saws for surgery

or necropsy .....

... L.K.

Surgical scissors

L.K.

Trepans

L.K.

Trocars for exploration, paracentesis , tapping and the like .. L.K.

Abdominal vaginal and the similar retractors
CLASS XXXII
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR ACCESSORIES
Clarinets :

L.K.

Of any wood : Having up to 13 keys .... each Having from 14 to 16 keys.each
Boehm system and those having over 16 keys ...... each

Clarions

.each

Rate of duty
33.52 139.65
55.86 33.60 33.60 44.69 27.94 33.52
65.52 81.90 136.50 136.50

95347 0-49-pt. 5-24

A366

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number 1745
15 16 1752 /1 12 1753
/1
/2
13
1754 /1
1777

Description of Products

Flutes :

Boehm system:

Wooden or silvered or non-silvered metal . ............ . each

Silver

each

Harps : Single-action Double-action
Metal instruments n.s.m.: Wind :

each each

With keys , plain or smooth

L.K.

......

With rotary or piston

valves

...... L.K.

Percussion and other n.s.m. .....
Piano mechanism:

L.K.

Complete , assembled or not assembled

each

Any musical instruments and

accessories or component parts

thereof n.s.m.

....

1778

CLASS XXXIII
VEHICLES , THEIR ACCESSORIES AND PARTS
Aeroplanes , hydroplanes , autogiros , balloons , dirigible and others , assembled or not ; their accessories and parts , and also engines , articles and instruments of their equipment imported with them or separately..L.K .

Rate of duty
127.40 291.20 546.00 910.00
54.60 43.68 36.40 728.00
25% ad valorem
0.98

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A367

SCHEDULE III BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
number 1779
/1 /2 13 1 15
16 17 18 19

Description of Products

Cars , assembled or unassembled , complete :

Motor cars , using petrol , naphtha , benzine or other essences ,
alcohol , fuel-oil or electricity

Passenger , such as landaulets , limousines , phaetons , double- phaetons , sedans , sports models and others :

Up to 1,000 kg .
Over 1,000 up to 1,500 kg .

L.K. L.K.

Over 1,500 up to 2,000 kg . ...
Over 2,000 up to 2,500 kg .
Over 2,500 kg . .....

....

L.K.
L.K. L.K.

Passenger or freight , delivery of parcels, ambulances , funerals and similar uses , such as ambulances , lorries , omnibuses and others :

Up to 2,000 kg .

L.K.

Over 2,000 up to 4,000 kg . .... L.K.

Over 4,000 kg .

.... L.K.

For distributing alcohol , petrol , oil and other liquids , fitted with tanks , fire extinguishers , irrigation , public or private cleaning , break-down or similar services , with or without pumps , crane , ladders , machinery , brushes or other apparatus .... L.K.

Rate of duty
2.39 2.77 4.31 6.59 8.87
2.03 2.38 3.05
2.24

A368

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Steam or electric traction for railway lines :

Urban or long distances :

Passenger :

/11

Wooden and iron

L.K.

/12

Steel or iron

L.K.

For goods and like purposes :

/13

Of wood and iron ...

L.K.

/14

Of steel or iron

L.K.

For first aid or for conveying
liquids , with crane , tank , mechanism or other contrivances :

715

of wood and iron

/16

Of steel or iron

.... L.K. L.K.

For the internal use of agricul-
tural , industrial and mining establishments :

/19

Small , for goods , earthworks

and similar purposes , entirely

of iron, Decauville's and

other systems ..

L.K.

1781

Velocipedes , such as bicycles and tricycles , assembled or unassembled , complete :

Motor driven :

/1

Bicycles with one or more

seats , with or without

fittings for carrying parcels ,

with pneumatic tyres

L.K.

Rate of duty
1.82 0.70 1.40 0.56 0.70 0.42
1.40
4.32

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A369

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number /2
1 1782
16 19

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Tricycles with one or more

seats , with or without basket

or box for carrying passengers

or goods , including tricars

and side-cars ....

.... L.K.

Pedal driven:

Bicycles with one or more seats and with or without attachment for carrying parcels , fitted with pneumatic tyres

L.K.

Parts , accessories , fittings : Automobiles :

Chassis or trucks without bodies
( carrosserie ) , assembled or unassembled , complete with motor and fittings , front and back axles and wheels , fitted with pneumatic tyres , foot - boards , mudguards , bumpers and all other parts needed for working , including horn , lamps and signals :

For ambulances , lorries , omnibuses and others of any kind .. L.K.

Spare parts :

Chassis framework ( long and cross girders , brackets and similar

Joining pieces ) , hoods , skid chains , axles and brakes for

wheels and transmission ,

bumpers and appurtenances ,

mudguards , radiators , with their

tanks , wheels , grids or luggage carriers , petrol tanks and

fittings , exhaust pipes and

silencers

..... L.K.

3.58 5.88
1.77 1.54

A370

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff item
number
/10

Description of Products

Gear change and brake levers ,

shock absorbers , steering column and wheel , tank and grease caps , gear cases , brake controls and

tighteners , differential , parts for clutches , footboards and steps ,

universal joints , radiator frames , lubricating pins , instrument board , supports , ventilating fan with belt

and other unspecified parts of the

chassis , even if in connection

with the motor ....

... L.K .

/11

Complete hoods with frame,

curtains and holders ; wind-

screens with frame or glasses

only, doors , seats , padded or not ,

glasses for windows , doors or

lights , bevelled or not , showing

their application by the shape ,

mirrors for front and rear sight

and other attachments for car

bodies n.s.m.

.... L.K .

For bicycles pedal :

/18

Plain , galvanised or painted

iron

... L.K.

/19

Chromed or nickelled iron ....... L.K .

/20

Rubber , leather , wood , plastic

materials and the like , with

iron attachments or of those

materials and iron ....

..L.K .

Motor cars or motor boats :

/21

Current distributors , magnetos ,

electric starters , and other

unclassified fittings for the

motor ...

... L.K .

/22

Amperemeters , manometers , thermo-

stats , speed indicators , and other

physical instruments

..L.K .

For any vehicle except aircraft :

Horns and sirens :

/24

Common metal , plain, painted or

nickelled

... L.K.

/25

Ditto , gilt or silver- plated ... L.K.

Rate of duty
2.38
11.92 5.04 6.58 11.76 10.06 8.40 9.80 20.86

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A371

SCHEDULE III BRAZIL PART I ( Continued )

Brazilian Tariff Iter number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Class XXXIV

MACHINERY , APPARATUS , TOOLS AND VARIOUS UTENSILS

1786

Hones and strops : For knives :

/1

with handles of whalebone , horn , bone,

wooden, common metal , plastic materials

and the like

... each

2.24

/2

with handles of mother -of-pearl , ivory ,

tortoise -shell and white metal , gilt

or silver-plated or not .......

each

10.92

13 14 1787

For ordinary razors :
with two surfaces ..... with four surfaces .

each each

Retorts , digesters , ovens , pasteurizers and the like :

2.24 4.34

/2

large, or of capacity greater than

50 cubic decimetres duties as for

unclassified operative machinery, as mentioned below:

weighing up Ditto , over Ditto , over Ditto, over Ditto , over Ditto , over Ditto , over
Ditto , over Ditto , over

to 10 kg .... 10 up to 50 kg . 50 up to 100 kg .
100 up to 250 kg. 250 up to 500 kg . 500 up to 1,000 kg ..... 1,000 up to 5,000 kg ... 5,000 up to 10,000 kg .. 10,000 kg ..........

L.K. L.K L.K. L.K. L.K. L.K.
L.T. L.T. L.T.

2.66 2.24 1.82 1.68 1.40 1.12 868.00
700.00 518.00

1792

Weighing-machines : Platform type with iron bed , wooden or wood and iron : For weighing :

Up to 100 kg ...

over 100 up to 200 kg .

over 200 up to 500 kg .

over 500 up to 1,000 kg .

over 1,000 up to 2,000 kg .

19

over 2,000 up to 5,000 kg .. ....

/10

over 5,000 kg.

each 182.00 each 291.20
each 436.80 each 640.64 each 1052.88 each 1164.80
each 2329.60

A372

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I - (Continued )

Brazilian Tariff Item number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1794

Pumps : Hand :

17 For petrol , or motor-alcohol , plain or with indicator , for any kind of power , assembled

for not , and any of their unclassified

parts ..

.... L.A.

4.36

/8 Steall , alcohol, compressed air , hot air ,
electric , petrol , naphtha , fuel oil or hydraulic and fire- extinguishing pumps duties as for unclassified power engines , as mentioned below:

1798

Weighing up to 10 kg.. .... Ditto 10 up to 50 kg . Ditto 50 up to 100 kg. Ditto over 100 up to 250 kg . Ditto , over 250 up to 500 kg ..... Ditto , over 500 up to 1,000 kg ...... Ditto , over 1,000 up to 5,000 kg .. Ditto, over 5,000 up to 10,000 kg .. .. Ditto , over 10,000 kg .....

L.K. L.K L.K. L.K. L.K. L.K L.T. L.T. L.T

Boilers : Stean generators with their heaters :

2.66 2.24 1.82 1.68 1.40 1.12 868.00 700.00 518.00

16 17 18
1799

Weighing over 5,000 up to 20,000 kg..L.K.

Ditto , over 20,000 up to 100,000 kg..L.K .

Ditto, over 100,000 kg ...

... L.A.

Card clothing :

1.12 0.84 0.56

/1 /2 13
1802

Hand ...... For machines :

pair

In pieces or strips , without fittings L.K

In pieces or strips , with common metal or wooden fittings ....

L.K.

Air compressors! Duties as for unclassified operative machinery, as mentioned below
Weighing up to 10 kg .... Ditto , over 10 up to 50 kg ..... Ditto , over 50 up to 100 kg.. Ditto , over 100 up to 250 kg.....

L.K. L.K. L.K. L.K.

2.46 12.21
1.79
2.66 2.24 1.82 1.68

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT, 30, 1947

A373

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL FanT I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff Iteu number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1809

Ditto , Ditto , Ditto , Ditto , Ditto ,

over 250 up to 500 kg ...... over 500 up to 1,000 k ........ over 1,000 up to 5,000 kg .. over 5,000 up to 10,0.0 ke , over 10,000 ku............ .

L.K. L.K. L.T. L.T. L.T.

Scoop excavators , land dredgers and
the like, for stea , electricity or other motive power

1.40 1.12 868.00 700.00 518.00

11/2 1814

Weighing
Up to 20,000 k... Over 20,000 k
Tools :

L.K. L.K.

0.42 0.28

/1
1818 /2

23+5

Heavy manual , such as levers with

or without claws , scythes , nattocks ,

rakes , railbendurs , hoes , coarse

Ground or unground knives for

cutting sugar canu and the like ,

pit irons , bill-hooks , hand-hooks ,

pitch-forks , arden forks , reaping-

hooks , axes , shovels , hatchets ,

sledge-hammers and hammers weighing

2 kg or more , spades , picks of all

kinds , large and small weeding-

hooks, hand cultivators , large and

small sickles , laro pincers and

the like....

L.K.

Pneumatic and electrici

Weighing up to 10 kg .... Ditto over 10 up to 5 kg .
Ditto over 50 up to 10 kg Ditto over 100 kg ..

L.K. L.K. L.K L.K

Forgos :

Fixed or semi - fixed , for stean , electric or other motive powerduties as for unclassified operative machinery, as ontioned below :

Wei hing up to 10 kg.....

L.K

Ditto , over 10 up to 50 k3 .

L.K

0.84
2.66 2.24 1.68 1.26
2.66 2.24

A374

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL FUT I - ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff Item numberi

Description of Products

Kate of duty

1822

Ditto , Ditto , Ditto , Ditto , Ditto , Ditto , Ditto ,

over over over over over over over

50 up to 100 kg ...... 100 up to 250 k ......... .. 250 up to 500 kg ..... 500 up to 1,000 kg ... 1,000 up to 5,000 kg . 5,000 up to 10,000 kg 10,000 k ...

L.K. L.K. L.K. L.K. L.T.
LL..TT..

Ice-boxes , refrigerators and the like , of common metals :

1.82 1.68 1.40 1.12 868.00 700.00 518.00

NovaFWN

17 18
/10
1824

With refrieration plant ( it is understood that number 1822 covers
refrigeration apparatus such as mechanic 1 and thermo-dynamic plants ) :

Wei hing up Ditto, over Ditto , over Ditto , over Ditto, over Ditto , over Ditto , over Ditto, over Ditto , over

to 10 kg .. 10 up to 50 kg ...... 50 up to 100 kg ...... 100 up to 250 k ..... 250 up to 500 kg ..... 500 up to 1,000 k ... 1,000 up to 5,000 kg 5,000 up to 10,000 ke 10,000 kg ..

L.K. L.K
L.K. L.A. L.K. L.K. L.K. L.K. L.K.

Cranes and hoists :

2.60 2.17 1.73 1.56 1.38 1.05 0.86
0.70 0.51

Hand winches , Weston's differential pulley blocks and the like .......... L.K ,

0.84

Fixed or portable , for steam , electricity
or other power , including travelling cranes for warehouses - duties as for
unclassified operative machinery, as mentioned below:

Weighing up to 10 kg ..
Ditto , over 10 up to 50 k ... Ditto , over 50 up to 100 kg ...

L.K. L.K. L.K.

Ditto , over 100 up to 250 kg .... L.K.

Ditto , over 250 up to 500 k .... L.K. Ditto, over 500 up to 1,000 kg .. L.K

Ditto , over 1,000 up to 5,000 kg L.T.

Ditto , over 5,000 up to 10,000 kL.T.

Ditto, over 10,000 kg ...

L.T.

2.66 2.24 1.82 1.68 1.40 1.12 868.00 700.00 518.00

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A375

SCHEDULE FART I - ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff Ite number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1825

Agricultural tools and machinery , such as : earthing-up ploughs , stump- or- root extractors , harrows , reapers , ploughs , cultivators , scarifiers , tooth-harrows with fixed or flexible teeth , planters , Croskill , Cambridge and similar
rollers , seed -drills , ridging ploughs . transplanting machines , and the like.

Free

1828

Files :

Unspecified :

Weighing up to 300 er per dozen .... L.K.

Ditto , over 300 gr up to 1 kg dittoL.K

Ditto , over 1 kg ditto ..

L.K

5.46 3.82 2.73

1829 /2

Sand and eery papers : On paper.....

L.K

2.9'

1831

Machines (or engines ) : Motive :

A. Steam :

Stationary and for navigation , with respective boilers , weighing :

/1

Up to 1,000 kg .....

L.K

12

Over 1,000 , up to 5,000 kg ...... L.K

13

Over 5,000 , up to 20,000 kg ..... L.K

14

Over 20,000 , up to 100,000 kg ... L.K

15

Over 100,000 k ......

L.K

1.54 1.26 0.84 0.70 0.56

678

Se i- stationary , with respective boilers , also vertical or horizontal with boiler, forming a motive unit , weighing :

16

Up to 3,000 kg ............ ..

.... L.K

17

Over 3,000 , up to 12,000 kg ..... L.K

18

Over 12,000 k ....

L.K

1.26 0.84 0.70

A376

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PANT I - (Continued )

Brazilian Tariff Item number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Portable engines , with respective boilers , weighing :

19

Up to 5,000 k¸...

/10

Over 5,000 k .....

... L.K L.K

0.70 0.56

E- Gas , and town gas , with their producer plant , petroleum oil , alcohol , naphtha , hot air , compressed air or any other explosive mixture :

/11

Weighing up to 500 kg ..

L.K

/12

Ditto , over 500 up to 1,000 kg .

L.K

/13

Ditto , over 1,000 k ...

L.K

IC - Electric dynamos ! Alternators , boosters , generators and the like with their several starters :

2.24 1.54 1.12

/17

Weighing over 100 up to 1,000 kg ... L.K

1.54

/18

Weighing over 1,000 k ............... .

L.K

1.12

Ditto , ditto , coupled to steam or

hydraulic machinery :

/19

Weighing up to 2,000 kg ......

L.K

/20

Ditto , over 2,000 up to 10,000 kg .. L.K

/21

Ditto , over 10,000 kg ............

L.K

1.54 1.26 0.84

Ditto , litto , coupled to Las , town as , alcohol , naphtha , hot air , compressed air or any other explosive mixture engines :

/22

Weighing up to 2,000 kg ..

/23

Ditto , over 2,000 kg .....

L.K

1.12

L.K

0.70

E. Locomotives ; stea , petroleum, alcohol , petrol or electricity with respective tenders , weighing :

127

Up to 20,00 kg ....

/28

Over 20,000 kg .....

L.T. 518.00 ..L.T . 350.00

/30 G - Unclassified tractors and mechanical
rollers , and compressors , steam , fuel oil , alcohol , petrol or electric ...... L.K

0.56

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A377

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL FART I - ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff Item number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Operative Machinery:

138 Knife and tool grinders , pencil sharpeners ,

embroidery and sewing machines , meat ,

bread , paper , cork and cloth cutters ,

haize huskers and crushers , milk separators

up to 10 litres capacity , bottling ,

ironing, ice-making and ice-cream machines ,

glass , bottle and dish-washers , clothes-

washers and mangles , knife - cleaners ,

mincing-machines , tobacco and vegetable

cutters , graters and the like , small

sizes for domestic , office , shop and

similar purposes ....

.... G.K

1.30

Calculating , accounting and statistical , on Hollerith and other systems :

139

Weighing up to 10 kg ..

L.K

140

Ditto , over 10 up to 50 k .

L.K

Ditto , over 50 up to 100 kg ..

L.K

Ditto , over 100 up to 250 kg .

L.K

Ditto , over 250 up to 500 kg .

L.K

Ditto , over 500 kg .....

L.K

Air-conditioning the same duties as for unclassified operative machinery , as mentioned below:

Weighing up to 10 kg . Ditto , over 10 up to 50 kg . Ditto , over 50 up to 100 kg . Ditto , over 100 up to 250 k .... Ditto , over 250 up to 500 kg .....
Ditto , over 500 up to 1,000 k ..... Ditto , over 1,000 up to 5,000 kg ... Ditto , over 5,000 up to 10,000 k .. Ditto , over 10,000 kg ...

L.K L.K L.K L.K L.K
L.K L.T. L.T. L.T.

8.66 6.93 5.19 3.45 2.60 1.73
2.66 2.24 1.82 1.68 1.40 1.12 868.00 700.00 518.00

Typewriters :

146

With keyboard .

152 Cash registers , ticket punching and the like ....

753 Printing , linotypes , monotypes ,

autoplates and semi-autoplates .

L.K.

11.14

L.K.

7.98

L.K.

1.05

A378

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I - (Continued)

Brazilian Tariff Item numberi

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Bullgrader and suchlike :

154

Weighing up to 1,000 kg ...

755

Over 1,000 up to 2,000 kg .

156

Over 2,000 up to 5,000 kg .....

757

Over 5,000 kg .

L.K

2.10

L.K

1.54

L.K

1.26

L.K

0.84

/58 n.s.mi Concrete mixers Road graders Other road making equipment Mining and quarrying machinery Well-drilling apparatus Thread cutting and automatic screw Machines Drilling machines Planing and shaping machines Grinding machines Sheet and plate metal working machines Power-driven metal working machinery
Hand or foot operated metal working Dachines
Circular hosiery knitting machines Other textile machinery Commercial sewing machines Shoe machinery
Sugar mill machinery Wood working machinery Bottling, bottle washing and bottle
labelling machinery Brewing machinery Ice making machinery Printing presses Welding machinery Petroleum well and refining machinery Milling machines Winders and parts Paint spraying equipment :

Weighing up to 10 kg ..

L.K

Ditto , over 10 up to 50 kg .

L.K

Ditto , over 50 up to 100 kg ...... L.K

Ditto , over 100 up to 250 kg ...

L.K

Ditto , over 250 up to 500 kg ........ L.K

Ditto , over 500 up to 1,000 kg .... L.K

Ditto, over 1,000 up to 5,000 kg .... L.T

Ditto , over 5,000 up to 10,000 kg ... L.T

Ditto, over 10,000 kg ..

L.T

2.66 2.24 1.82 1.68 1.40 1.12 868.00 700.00 518.00

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A379

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL PART I - (Continued )

Brazil Tariff Item number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1835 13
1841 /1

Spinning and weaving machinery looms Rayon and knitting machinery Cigarette making machinery Weighing :
Up to 10 kg ..... Over 10 up to 50 kg .... Over 50 up to 100 k ...... Over 100 up to 250 k . Over 250 up to 500 kg ......... Over 500 up to 1,000 kg ... Over 1,000 up to 5,000 k .
Over 5,000 up to 10,000 kg. Over 10,00 kg .....

L.K. L.K L.K L.K L.K L.K L.T. L.T. L.T.

Textile machinery parts .
Weighing up to 10 kg . Over 10 up to 50 kg . Over 50 up to 100 kg ... Over 100 up to 250. Over 250 up to 500 kg ... Over 500 up to 1,000 k ...... Over 1,000 up to 5,000 kg. .... Over 5,000 up to 10,000 kg.. .... Over 10,000 k...

L.K. L.K. L.K L.K. L.K L.K L.T. L.T. L.T.

Grinding mills : Fixed or semi -fixed for factory use,
stea , electric or other power -duties as for unclassified operative machinery , as mentioned below:

Weighing up Ditto , over Ditto , over Ditto , over Ditto , over Ditto , over Ditto, over Ditto, over Ditto , over

to 10 kg ... 10 up to 50 kg .. 50 up to 100 kg ... 100 up to 250 kg ... 250 up to 500 k ..

L.K. L.K L.K L.h L.K

500 up to 1,000 kg ..... L.K

1,000 up to 5,000 kg ... L.T.

5,00 up to 10,000 kg ... L.T.

10,000 kg ..

L.T.

Printing presses , weighing :

Up to 10 k ...............

L.K.

1.33 1.12 0.91 0.84 0.70 0.56 434.00 350.00 259.00
2.66 2.24 1.82 1.68 1.40 1.12 868.00 700.00 518.00
2.66 2.24 1.82 1.68 1.40 1.12 868.00 700.00 518.00
2.66

A380

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III  BRAZIL FAKT I - (Continued )

23456769

Brazilian Tariff Item number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

/2

Over 10

up to 50 kg ...

L.K

2.24

13

Over 50

up to 100 k ..

L.K

1.82

Over 100, up to 250 kg .

L.K

1.68

Over 250, up to 500 kg ..

L.K

1.40

Over 500, up to 1,000 k ....

L.K

1.12

Over 1,000, up to 5,000 kg ..... L.T 868.00

18

Over 5,000, up to 10,000 kg ..... L.T. 700.00

19

Over 10,000 kg...

L.T. 518.00

1842

Presses :
Baling and packing , triming, glazing and cutting paper , lithographing, biscuit and macaroni-making , soap- making and the like . Stean , electric or other power prosses duties as for unclassified operative nachinery , as mentioned below :

Weighing over 5,000 up to 10,000 kg.L.T. 700.00

Weighing over 10,000 kg ........

L.T. 518.00

1843 /1

Spraying :

Sprayer :

Mounted or not on wheels , for destruction

of agricultural insect pest ......

L.K.

0.84

1848 /2
13

Baws :

Band , endless , vertical or circular ,

for machine saws .....

L.K

Machine, for steam, electrical or other power duties as for unclassified operative machinery , as mentioned below:

2.94

Weighing up Ditto , over Ditto , over Ditto , over Ditto , over Ditto , over Ditto , over Ditto , over Ditto , over

to 10 kg. 10 up to 50 k . 50 up to 100 kg. 100 up to 250 k. 250 up to 500 kg . 500 up to 1,000 k ..... 1,000 up to 5,000 kg... 5,000 up to 10,000 kg .. 10,000 kg ...

L.K L.K L.K L.K L.K L.K
L.T. L.T. L.T.

2.66 2.24 1.82 1.68 1.40 1.12 868.00 700.00 518.00

1852 14

Vices and lathes :
Steam, electric or other power lathes duties as for unclassified operative machinery, as 1:4 entioned below:

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A381

SCHEDULE III BRAZIL PAT I ( Continued)

Brazilian Tariff Item number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1856 1857
/2

Weighing over 1,000 up to 5,000 kg..L.T.

Ditto, over 5,000 up to 10,000 kg ... L.T.

Ditto , over 10,000 kg..

L.T.

Spark plugs for motors ....

L.K

Ventilating fans , dust extractors , vibrators , driers and the like Centrifugal or heli coidal - duties as for unclassified operative machinery , as mentioned below:

868.00 700.00 518.00
11.06

1859 /1

Weighing over 1,000 up to 5,000 kg . L.T

Ditto, over 5,000 up to 10,500 ke.. L.T

Ditto , over 10,000 k ...

L.T

All tools and utensils ... M : For arts and crafts : Machine :
Parts and attachments for earth moving equipment ..

868.00 700.00 518.00
0.84

1867
1868 11/22
13 14 15
1871 12

Class XXXV

SUNDRY ARTICLES

Toys and dolls : Dressed dolls

ipes :

Of amber neerschawa.

L.K

of horn, bone ; whalebone, base metal

either gilt or silvered , plastic and

similar materials .....

L.K

of clay , earthenware , louça wood

or class ........

L.K

Of mother-of- pearl , ivory or tortoise-

shell ....

... L.K

With ornaments or trimmings of gold ,

platinum or silver....

L.K

Confectioners ' sweets :

Chewing gun...

L.K

Removal of surtax
50.96
22.93 9.11
101.92 183.46
7.00

95347 0-49- pt. 5-25

A382

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE III - BRAZIL FIRST PART ( END )
· GENERAL SCHEDULE

I - The abbreviations gr . , kg . , ton , G.K. , L.K. , R.K. ,

G. T. and L.T. , used in this Schedule , have the following respective significance : - gramme , kilograme , ton ,

( of 1.000 kilogrammes ) , gross kilogramne , legal kilo-

gramme , real kilogramme ( actual ) , gross ton and legal ton . The abbreviation "n.s.n. " stands for " not

specially mentioned " . II - Except as otherwise specified , the products described

in this Schedule shall be subject , in addition to the

ordinary customs duties specified herein, to any

separate or additional ordinary customs duties not in

excess of those provided for in respect of such pro-

ducts by laws in force on the date of this Agreement .

III

The " notes " of the Brazilian Tariff Laws relating

to the articles mentioned in this Schedule are an

integral part of this Schedule .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A383

SCHEDULE N

BURLA

This Schedule is authentic only in the English language.

Part I

Most Favoured - lation Tariff

Burma
Tariff Itemr Humber

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 5 Cheese ......

30 per cent

6 Hilk condensed or preserved , including milk crenn .. 35 per cent

Note : The products provided for under item 6 shall be exempt from ordinary mostfavoured-nation custons duties which exceed
(1) the preferential dutics on such products of origin by nore than 7 por cont ad valorum ; and
(2) the preferential duties on such products of Indian origin by ore than 15 per cent a valor

7
Ex 11 19

Milk foods for infants and invalds (wholly or mainly ril:)
Beans, dry
Fruits and vegetables , muined or bottled .....

25 per cent Free .....

Note: The products provided for under item 18 shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation caso. duties which exceod
(1) the preferential duties on such products of UK origin by more than 5 per cent ad valorem;
(2) the preferential duties on such products of ritish colonial origin by more than 5 per cunt ad valorem ; and
(3) the preferential dutics on such products of Indian origin by more than 25 per ocnt ad valorem.

43 Oil onke

20 per cent

49 Fish oil , all sorts , not otherwise specified

.....

Note: The products provided for under itera 49 shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation custous duties which excced
(1) the preferential duties on such products of IK origin by more than 7 per cont ad valorem; and
(2) the preferential duties on such products of Indian origin by more than 15 per cent ad valcrum ,

A384

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IV - BURMA Part I ( Continued)

Burma Tariff Ita Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

32

52 53 Ex 54 56 644 73 107 116 Ix 139 158
160
178 192

$

The following vegetable non-ossential oils, namely:-

(a) Coconut and groundnut

324 per cont

Tallow

Free

Mineral groase including petroleum jelly; stearine... 25 per cent

Chemicals, Drugs and Medicinos, all sorts, not otherwise specified

30 por cont

Quinine sulphate and bisulphate

Free

Cutch and gambier, all sorts .....

30 por cont

Silk, raw, waste and noils and silk cocoons

45 per cent

Artificial silk yarn and thread Buttons .....

25 per cent 30 per cont

All sorts of mineral oils , not otherwise specified (other than fuel oils ; kerosenc; lubricating oils; petroleum dangerous , flashing below 76° Fahrenheit and white oil) ......
Lubricating oil, that is, oil such as is not ordinarily used for any other purpose than lubrioation, excluding any mineral oil which has its flashing point below two hundred degrees of Fahrenheit's thermomoter by Abel's close test ....

25 per cent .....

Note: The products provided for under item 160 shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation customs duties in excess of the dutics on such products of UK origin,
Glass bangles, glass beads and false pearls...................

50 por cont

Iron alloys viz. , ferro-nanganese, ferro- silicon, ferro-chrome , spiegoleisen and the like as commonly used for steel making .....
Note: The products provided for under item 192 shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation customs duties which exceed
(1) the preferential duties on such products of UK origin by more than 5 per cent ad valorom ; and
(2 ) the preferential duties on such products of Indian origin by more than 15 per oent ad valorem.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A385

SCHEDULE IV

BURMA

Part I ( Continued)

Burna Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

207
215 219
229 Ex 231 Ex 236
238 Ex 239
241

Iron or Steel nails and washers , all sorts not otherwise specified .......

.....

Note: The products provided for under iten 207 shall be exempt from ordinary nost-favourodnation customs duties which exceed the
preferential duties on such products of Indian origin by more than 15 por oont ad valoran ,

Iron or Steel barbed or stranded wire and wire rope. 20 por cent Fish hooks .....

Note: Fish hooks shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which axcoed (1 ) the preferontial duties on fish hooks
of UK origin by more than 5 per ount ad valorem; and (2) the preferential duties on fish hooks
of Indian origin by more than 15 per cent ad valoran.

Zinc, unwrought, including cakes, ingots , tiles (other than boiler tiles) , hard or soft slabs and
plates, dust, dross and ashes ; and broken zinc.... Free

Non-ferrous base metals unenumerated ( other than alluminium ; anti-friction metal ; bronze , brass and similar alloys ; copper; German silver; lead, quicksilver,; solder; tin and zinc or spelter) ....

25 per cent

Hand pumps ......

20 por cent

Enamelled ironware

30 per cent

(1) Mining machinery other than coal mining machinery .....
(2) Oil orushing and refining machinery (3) Pumping machinery .....

10 per cent ... 10 per cent
10 per cont

The following Agricultural Implements, namely, winnowers, threshers , mowing and reaping machines , binding machines , elevators, seed and com crushers , chaff-cutters , root-cutters , ensilagecutters, horse and bullock gear, ploughs , cultivators, carifiers , harrows, clod-crushers, seeddrills , hay tedders , hay presses, potato-diggers , latex spouts , spraying machines , powder-blowers ,

A386

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IV

BURMA

Part I ( Continued)

Burna Tariff Iton Number

Doscription of Products

Rate of Duty

white-ant exterminating machines , beet pullers ,

broadcast seeders , corn pickers , corn shellors ,

oulti-packers, drag scrapers , stalk cutters,

huskers and shredders , potato plantors, line sovers,

nanure spreadors , listers , soil graders, and rakes ;

fane throwers for attachment to spraying machines

designod for the extermination of locusts , and

latexcups ; also agricultural tractors , also corpo-

nent parts of these implements , machines or tractors, provided that they can be readily fitted

into their proper places in the implements ,

nachinos or tractors for which they are inported,

and that they cannot ordinarily be used for

purposes unconnected with agriculture

Free

242 Refrigorating machinery other than Doncstic Refrigerators ....
243 Typewriters .....
Note : Typewriters shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourod-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duty on typewriters of Indian origin by nore than 10 per cent ad valorem.

25 per cont .....

251 Electro-modical apparatus ( oxclusively for nodical usc) ........

30 por cent

257 Wireless Reception Instruments and apparatus and component parts thereof, including all electric valvos, amplifiers and loud speakers which are not specially designed for purposes other than wireless reception or are not original parts of and imported along with instruments or apparatus
so designed

Noto: The products provided for under iton 257 sh be exempt from ordinary most-favou -ed-nation customs duties which exceed the preferantial duties on such products of Indian origin by nore than 15 per cent ad valorem,

272 Guns, Arabic, Benjanin (ras and cowrie) and Darmer (including unrefined batu) and rosin ....

30 per cent

287 Brushes, all sorts

.....

Note: The products provided for under item 287 shall be exempt fra. ordinary nost-favourodnation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products of Indian origin by more than 15 per cont ad
valoren.



61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A387

SCHEDULE IV

BURMA

Part I (Concluded)

Burma Tariff Item Number
300
303

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Bangles and beads, not otherwise specified

50 per cent

011 cloth and floor cloth

.....

Note: The products provided for under item 303 shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation custans duties which exceed the
preferential duties on such products of Indian origin by more than 15 per cent ad valorem.

General Notes
The Tariff Items shown in the present Schedule refer to the numbers appearing in the Sixth Edition of the Customs Tariff of Burma, 1947 .

A388

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.
SCHEDULE IV · BURLA Part II
Preferential Tariff NIL

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A389

SCHEDULE V · CANADA This Schedule is authentic only in the English and French languages .
PART I Most-Favourod Nation Tariff

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
1

Description of Products
Horses , cattle , sheep , goats , asses , swine and dogs , for the improvement of stock , under regulations prescribed by the Governor in Council

Rate of Duty Free

5 Animals, living, n.o.p.:(a) Cattle ......

....... per pound lots.

ex ( c ) N.o.p. , other than silver or black foxes

p.o.

Live hogs

.per pound 1 ct.

7 ex 8

Meats, fresh , n.o.p.:(a) Beef and veal ..... ex (a) Edible offal of beef and veal
ex (c) Pork ...

...per pound
..per pound but not less than
....per pound

3 ots .
1 cts. 72 p.o.
14 ots.

Canned meats other than beef and pork, n.o.p .; canned poultry or game , n.o.p. ...

20 p.o.

ex 8 Canned hams

221 p.c.

ex 8 Pâtés de foie gras , foies gras , preserved, in tins or otherwise ; lark pâtés
8a Extracts of meat and fluid beef, not medicated

10 p.o. 30 p.o.

9 Poultry and game , n.o.p. .. 94 Baby chioks , n.o.p. ...

15 p.o. ...each 2 ots .

10 Meats , prepared or preserved , other than canned:(a) Bacon, hams , shoulders and other park ...... per pound 1ots.

(b) N.o.p. ....

.par pound 2 ots .

12 Sausage skins or casings, not cleaned

Free

A390

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE Y CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Humber
12a

Description of Products Sausage skins or casings , oleaned

14 Tallow

25 (1) Beeswax, unrefined (11) Beeswax , n.o.p. .....

15 ex 711

Honey-comb foundations , of wax

Bate of Duty 15 p.o. 17 p.c. Free 15 p.o. 15 p.0.

16 Eggs in the shell

per dozen 3ots.

16b 1ggs, egg yolk or egg albumen, dried , evaporated, desiceated, or powdered , whether or not sugar or other material be added

25 p.o.

17 Cheese 18 Butter

per pound 34ote. ..... per pound 12 ata.

19 Cocoa shells and nibs

10 p.o.

80 Cocoa paste or " liquor" and chocolate paste or " liquor" , not sweetened , in blocks or cakes ............. ............... ..per pound 3 ots.

100 Batter produced from the cocoa bean ...............................per pound 24 ots.

81 Ooooa paste or " liquor" and chocolate paste or liquor" ,



reatened , in blocks or cakes , not less than two pounds

in weight ...

...... per pound 4 cts .

82 Preparations of cocoa or chocolate in powder form

22 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A391

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
23

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Preparations of cocoa or chocolate , n.o.p. , and confection ery, coated with or containing chocolate , the weight of the wrappings and cartons to be included in the weight for duty
and, per pound

20 p.c. 22 ots.

244

24 Chicory, raw or green ..

per pound 2 ots .

25

25 Chicory, kiln dried , roasted or ground ......... per pound 3 ats.

28 Coffee, green 29

.per pound 2 cts .

288 Tea ......

..per pound 6 cts.

29a When in packages weighing five pounds , each , or less ,

the weight of such packages to be included in the weight

for duty .

30

30 Pepper, unground Cloves, unground Cinnamon, unground Ginger, unground .. Spices , unground , n.o.p.
32 Nutmegs and mace , whole or unground

5 p.c. 10 p.c. 12 p.c. 12 p.o. 121 p.o.
15 p.o.

22

39 35

34 Mustard, ground

20 p.c.

35 Hops

..per pound 10 cts.

39 (1) Potato starch and potato flour

..... per pound 1 cts .

When in packages weighing two pounds each , or less ,

the weight of such packages to be included in the

weight for duty.

A392

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I - (Cont'd )

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
39

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

( 11 ) Starch, and all preparations having the quality of

starch, n.o.p. ....

.... per pound

When in packages weighing two pounds each, or less,

the weight of such packages to be included in the

weight for duty.

1 ot.

39a (1) Starch or flour of sago , cassava, or rice ... per pound

ots.

( 11) Rice meal , rice feed , rice polish, rice bran, rice

shorts

....... per pound 1 08.

390 Dextrine , and combinations or preparations of starch and

dextrine without admixture of foreign material , n.o.p.

........

..per pound 1 et .

41

Salt , n.o.p. , in bags , barrels and other coverings

...... per one hundred pounds   .

42

Salt, in bulk , n.o.p.

..per one hundred pounds 5 ota.

43

Condensed milk , the weight of the package to be included

in the weight for duty

..per pound si ots.

43a Powdered milk, the weight of the package to be included

in the weight for duty

...... per pound 5 ota,

45

(1) Milk foods , n.o.p.

(11 ) Prepared cereal foods , in packages not exceeding twenty-five pounds weight each

20 p... 20 p.0.

46

Prepared cereal foods , n.o.p. ....

15 p.8.

47

Beans , n.o.p. , viz.:-

(a ) Castor beans, n.o.p. ...

Free

(b) Soya beans , n.o.p. .. ............

Free

(o) Lima and Madagascar beans , dried .......... per pound ot.

(d ) Red kidney beans , dried .....

..per pound 1 et.

(e ) N.o.p. ...

.per pound lots.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A393

SCHEDULEY- CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
48

Description of Products Peas, n.o.p.

Rate of Duty ·per pound fot.

58

Barley, 1.0.p.

..............per bushel Tots.

85

Corneal

per barrel 50 ots.

85

Indian corn (maize ) .

·per bushel 8 cts.

56

Oats

...... per bushel 4 eta.

58

Rye

.per bushel 6 ets.

19 19

61

Wheat flour and semolina

per barrel 50 ets.

62

Rice, uncleaned , unhulled or paddy

Free

63

Rice, oleaned

...........per one hundred pounds 70 ets.

When in packages weighing two pounds , each, or less,

the weight of such packages to be included in the weight

for duty.

64

Sago and tapioca

14 p.c.

65

Biscuits, not sweetened ......

17 p.0.

65a Diabetic breads and biscuits , under regulations prescribed|

by the Department of National Health and Welfare

74 p.o.

66

Biscuits, sweetened

25 p...

668 Biscuits , sweetened or unsweetened , valued at not less

than 20 cents per pound , said value to be based on the

net weight and to include the value of the usual retail

package

20 p...

69

Straw

..per ton 50 ots .

69b Hay

..per ton $1,25

A394

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

71a Timothy seed ....

Rate of Duty .per pound ot.

71b Clover seed , including alfalfa seed

per pound 2 qts.

120

72 Field and garden seeds not specified as free, valued at

not less than five dollars per pound , n.o.p. , in

packages weighing not less than one ounce each

p.o.

72d Millet and rape seed .....
720 Bent grass seed, not to include red - top grass seed
73 Field seeds , n.o.p. , when in packages weighing more than one pound each

7 p... 22 p...
p.o.

ex 73 Broom corn seed , when in packages weighing more than one

pound each

Free

ex 73

ex 76b Cotton seed

Free

x 276b

74 Seeds, as hereunder, when in packages weighing more than

one pound each :(1 ) Parsley and parsnip .....

.per pound 2 cts.

(11 ) Beet , not including sugar beet

.per pound 2 ots.

(iii ) Mangel and turnip

....per pound 2 ets.

75 Seeds, as hereunder , when in packages weighing more than

one pound each : -

(1 ) Radish, leek , lettuce , carrot , borecole or

bale

.per pound 2 ets.

(11) Cabbage and cucumber

...... per pound 4 ots.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A395

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

76 Seeds , as hereunder , when in packages weighing more than

one pound each ; -

(1) Tomato and pepper .....

.per pound Tots.

(11) Cauliflower

.per pound 18ots.

(iii ) Ouin

..per pound 15 ets.

76a Root, garden and other seeds , n.o.p. , when in packages

weighing more than one pound each

...per pound

tots.

76b Seeds , viz.:- Field , root , garden and other seeds , when in package weighing one pound eash , or less

20 p.e.

734 Seeds , viz.:- Canary, mastard , belery and sunflower, when in packages weighing more than one pound each, imported for use exclusively in manufacturing or blending operations
770 Vanilla beans , crude only

71 p... 5 p ...

78 Florist stock , viz.:- Palms , ferns , rubber plants ( Ficus),

gladiolus , cannas , dahlias and pasndas ....

17 p.o.

79

79 Florist stook , viz :- Azaleas , rhododendrons , pot-grown

lilaos ; hydrangeas and other pot -grown plants , n.o.p .;

rose stock and other stook for grafting or budding,

n.o.p .; seedling carnation stock, araucarias , bulbs,

0orms , tubers, rhizomes and dormant roots , n.o.p .; Dwarf Polyantha rose bushes imported or purchased in bond in Canada by florists for bona fide foroing purposes in

their own greenhouses prior to disposal ; laurel and holly

foliage, natural or preserved , whether in designs or bouquets or not .....

127.0.

ex 79b Flowers (other then orchids ) and foliage , natural, cut, whether in designs or bouquete or not , n.o.p ... .....................

124 p...

A396

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE T- CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

81 Trees, n.o.p., viz.:(a) Apple ................

.each 6 ets .

Provided that when imported between September 15th and October 5th, inclusive , the duty shall not be more than 3 cents each.

(b) Pear, plum, oberry, apricot , quince .....

.each 8 ots .

Provided that when imported between September 15th and October 5th, inclusive, the duty on cherry trees and on plum trees shall not be more than 3 cents each.

(0) Peach, including June buds

each 5 ots .

(a) Grape vines , gooseberry and currant bushes or

roots ........

...... each

(b) Raspberry, loganberry and blackberry bushes or roots ;

rhubarb roots

each

(4) Rosebushes , n.o.p. .....

.each

(e) Trees, shrubs, vines, plants, roots and cuttings, ocmmonly known as florist or nursery stock, n.o.p. ....

ax (e) ut trees , including grafted stook, and buds and soions for grafting mut trees ....

2 ots . 1 ot. 5 cts. 124 p.e. Free

85 Potatoes, as hereunder defined:(a) In their natural state : August 1 to June 14, inclusive June 15 to July 31 , inclusive ....per one hundred pounds

(o) Sweet potatoes and yams , in their natural state

Free

84 Onions, in their natural state , the weight of the packages

to be included in the weight for duty: -

(a) Onion sets and shallots ........

15 p..

(b) Onions , n.o.p.:40 weeks

.per pound 1 ot.

Otherwise .....

10 p.0.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30 , 1947

A397

SCHEDULE Y - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
85

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

*(a) Mushrooms , fresh, the weight of the packages to be

included in the weight for duty: -

52 weeks . ...........

.per pound

Otherwise

3ots. 10 p.c.

(b) Mushrooms , dried or otherwise preserved

15 p.o.

(o) Truffles, fresh, dried or otherwise preserved

10 p.c.

87 Vegetables , fresh, in their natural state , the weight of

the packages to be included in the weight for duty: -

* (a) Asparagus : -

8 weeks

..per pound 3ots.

Otherwise

10 p.c.

(b) Beans, green :14 weeks

.per pound 1 cts .

Otherwise

10 p.c.

(c ) Brussels sprouts

10 p.c.

(d) Cabbage:26 weeks

.per pound 9/10 ct .

Otherwise

10 p.c.

(e) Carrots and beets , n.o.p.:26 weeks

per pound 1 ct .

Otherwise

10 p.o.

(f) Cauliflower : 20 weeks

.per pound

ct.

Otherwise

10 p.c.

Eggplant ...

Free

*8) Celery : 24 weeks

per pound 1 ct .

Otherwise

10 p.c.

95347 0-49-pt. 5- -26

A398

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE Y- CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
87 (cont'd)

Description of Products
(h) Cucumbers:12 weeks ....
Otherwise
(1) Lettuce:18 weeks
Otherwise (1) Parsley ..... (k) Peas, green:-
12 weeks
Otherwise (1) Rhubarb: -
10 weeks Otherwise (m) Spinach (n) Tomatoes:32 weeks Otherwise (0) Wateroress ...... Whitloof or endive ..... (p ) Artichokes , horseradish and okra N.o.p...

Rate of Duty

..per pound

21 ots. 10 p.o.

.per pound

1 ot . 10 p.o. 10 p...

per pound

2 ots. 10 p...

.per pound

ot. 10 p.o. 10 p.o.

..per pound

lots. 10 p.o. 10 p.o. Free Free 10 p.c.

609

89 Vegetables , prepared , in air-tight cans or other air-tight containers , the weight of the containers to be included in the weight for duty: (a ) Beans , baked or otherwise prepared ........ per pound lots.

ex (b) Corn ....

..per pound lots.

(a ) Peas ......

..per pound lots.

(d) N.o.p.

15 p.0.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A399

SCHEDULE V- CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian
Tariff Iten Number

Description of Products

908 Vegetables , dried , desiccated , or dehydrated , including vegetable flour, n.o.p. ..........

Bate of Duty 20 p...

90b Vegetables , pickled or preserved in salt , brine , oil or in

any other manner , n.o.p. ........

22 p.o.

900 Vegetable juices, liquid mustards , soy and vegetable sauces of all kinds

20 p...

90 Vegetables, frozen ........

90 p.0.

92 Fruits, fresh, in their natural state , the weight of the

packages to be included in the weight for duty : -

(a) Apricots: -

10 weeks

per pound 1 et.

Otherwise

10 p.0.

(b) Cherries :7 weeks ....
Otherwise

per pound

2 ots. 10 p.o.

(e) Cranberries : 12 weeks
Otherwise

per pound

1 ot. 10 p...

(d) Peaches.9 weeks .....
Otherwise

.per pound

14 ots. 10 p.o.

(e) Pears:15 weeks

.par pound 1 ct.

Otherwise

10 p..

(f) Plums and prunes:10 weeks ................
Otherwise

.per pound

1 ot. 10 p.o.

A400

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I - ( Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Fumber
92 (cont'd )

Description of Products
*(g) Strawberries :6 weeks Otherwise
Raspberries and loganberries :6 weeks ..... Otherwise ....
(h) Berries , edible , n.o.p. (1) Quinces and nectarines

Rate of Duty

per pound

1-3/8 cts. 10 p.c.

.per pound

2 ota. 10 p.6. 10 p.c. 10 p.c.

98

Apples, fresh, in their natural state , the weight of the

packages to be included in the weight for duty :-

May 20 to July 12, inclusive

Free

July 13 to May 19, inclusive .......per pound ît .

94

Grapes, fresh, in their natural state , the weight of the

packages to be included in the weight for duty:-

(a) Vitis Vinifera species ...

Free

(b) Vitis Labrusca species :15 weeks ......
Otherwise

.per pound

1 ot. 10 p...

95

*Cantaloupes and muskmelons , the weight of the packages

to be included in the weight for duty: -

8 weeks

....... per pound 14 ots.

Otherwise

10 p.o.

95a

Melons , n.o.p. .....

96

Fruits, fresh, in their natural state, n.o.p.

each 2 ots . Free

95 315

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A401

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I - (Cont'd )

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Provided, that , as regards such of those fresh fruits and vegetables dutiable under tariff items 84, 85 , 87 , 92 , 94 and 95, as are marked with an asterisk in this Sohedule, the specific duty set opposite thereto shall not be maintained in force in any twelve months ending March 31 for a period in excess of the number of weeks set forth thereunder; and
Provided , that, as regards fresh fruits and vegetables dutiable under sub- items ( b) , ( d ) , ( e ) , ( f) , ( g ) and (1 ) , of tariff item 87, the number of weeks during which the specific duty may be maintained in force may be divided into two separate periods , the combined duration of which shall not exceed the number of weeks set forth thereunder ; and
Provided further, as regards such of those fresh fruits and vegetables dutiable under the aforesaid tariff items as are marked with an asterisk, that whenever the specific duty is not levied , the ad valorem duty of 10 per centum shall apply.

16 88

97 Plantains, pineapples, pomegranates, guavas and mangoes .. Free

98 Bananas

...per stem ar bunch 50 ots .

99a Plums and prunes, dried , unpitted

Free

99b Fruits, dried, desiccated , evaporated or dehydrated, n.o.p.

10 p.c.

990 (1) Raisins

..... per pound 3 cts .

When in packages weighing two pounds each, or less,

the weight of such packages to be included in the

weight for duty.

(11) Dried currants

...per pound

When in packages weighing two pounds each, or less,

the weight of such packages to be included in the

weight for duty.

4 ets.

A402

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V CANADA Part I ( Cont'd )

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

99d Dates, dried , unpitted , in bulk

Rate of Duty .per pound ot .

99 Dates , n.o.p.

...per pound lots.

When in packages weighing two pounds each, or less , the

weight of such packages to be included in the weight for

duty.

991 Figs , dried .....

..per pound ot.

When in packages weighing two pounds each , or less , the

weight of such paokages to be included in the weight for

duty .

996 Apricots , nectarines , pears and peaches , dried , desiccated ,

evaporated or dehydrated

15 p.0.

100 Grape fruit

Free

100a

101 Oranges , n.o.p.

Free

101a Lemone .

Free

103 Fruits preserved in brandy, or preserved in other spirits,
and containing not more than forty per cent . of proof spirit in the liquid contents thereof ......... per gallon $2.50
and 30 p.o.

104 Fruits preserved in brandy, or preserved in other spirits,

and containing more than forty per cent, of proof spirit

in the liquid contents thereof

......... per gallon $5.00

and 30 p.o.

104a Fruit pulp, other than grape pulp, not sweetened , in airtight oans or other air-tight packages .......... per pound lots.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A403

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
105

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

(1 ) Fruit pulp , with sugar or not , n.o.p. , and fruits ,

crushed

.per pound

(11) Fruits , frozen

.per pound

2 ots . 2 ots.

ex 105b Olives, ripe , in brine .... ex 1050

10 p.o.

1050 Fruits and nuts , pickled or preserved in salt, brine , oil or any other manner, n.o.p.

25 p.c.

1054 Jellies, jams , marmalades , preserves , fruit butters and

condensed mincemeats

per pound stots .

1050

uits and poels , crystallized , glacé , candied or drained ;

cherries and other fruits of crème de menthe , maraschino

ar other flavour ....

27 p.c.

106 Fruits , prepared , in air-tight cans or other air-tight

containers , the weight of the containers to be included

in the weight for duty: (a) Peaches .......

per pound a ots.

Apricots and pears

..per pound 2 cts .

(b) Pineapples

.per pound 2 ots .

(o ) N.o.p. ....

.per pound 1 ot.

108 Honey in the comb or otherwise, and imitations there of ... per pound  cts.

109 Nuts of all kinds , n.o.p. , shelled or not ....... per pound 1 ct . 114

109a Peanuts, green, in the shell or not further processed than

shelled

Free

110 Cocoanuts 111

.per one hundred 50 cts .

A404

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
113

Description of Products Cocoanut , desiccated , sweetened or not

Rate of Duty .per pound 3 cts .

1138 Copra or broken cocoanut meat , not shredded , desiccated or

prepared in any manner

Free

ex 114 Palm kernels

Free

115 Mackerel , herring , salmon and all other fish , n.o.p. , fresh , salted , pickled , smoked , dried or boneless .... .... per pound 1/2 ct .

116 Halibut , fresh , pickled or salted

.per pound

ct .

117 Fish livers , fresh , salted or in preservative medium ..... Free

120 Anchovies , sardines , sprats or pilchards , packed in oil or

otherwise , in sealed tin containers , the weight of the

tin container to be included in the weight for duty: -

(a) When weighing over twenty ounces and not over

thirty-six ounces each .....

......... per box 3 cts.

(b) When weighing over twelve ounces and not over

twenty ounces each .....

...... per box 3 cts .

(c) When weighing over eight ounces and not over

twelve Aunces each ....

......per box

(d) When weighing eight ounces each or less ..... per box

2 cts . 1 cts.

122 Herring ( not including kippered herring in sealed containers ) packed in oil or otherwise , in sealed containers
123 Fish , prepared or preserved , n.o.p.:( 1 ) Kippered herring in sealed containers
(11) Lobsters
( 111 ) Shell fish , n.o.p. , including oysters , n.o.p. (iv) Salmon
(v) All other fish , n.3.p.

25 p.c.
17 p.c. 22 p.c. 22 p.c. 27 p.c. 22 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A405

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd )

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
ex 123a

Description of Products Shrimps in sealed containers

Rate of Duty 15 p.o.

124 Oysters , shelled , in bulk

.per gallon 5 cts .

128 Oysters in the shell ....

15 p.o.

ex 133 Lobsters, fresh

Free

·

ex 134 ex 135 ex 135b

Sugar, produced from sugar cane or beets
The Government of Canada undertake, with respect to sugar dutiable under tariff items 134, 135 and 135b, not to impose rates of duty higher than those in effect on July 1, 1939 , but reserve the right to revise the wording of the said tariff items , provided that under any such revised wording the over-all incidence of import duties and taxes shall not be greater than that in effect on July 1, 1939.

139 Glucose or grape sugar, glucose syrup and corn syrup, or

any syrups containing an admixture thereof, n.o.p. .......

.....

..per pound 1 cts.

141 Sugar candy and confectionery, n.o.p. , including sweetened gums , candied popcorn, candied nuts , flavouring powders ,

custard powders , jelly powders , sweetmeats , sweetened

breads , cakes , pies , puddings and all other confections containing sugar

25 p.c.

142 Tobacco, unmanufactured , for exoise purposes under oorditions of the Excise Act , subject to such regulations as

may be prescribed by the Minister:-

(a ) of the type commonly known as Turkish : -

(1) Unstemmed ....

..... per pound 30 ots.

(11) Stemmed

...per pound 40 ots .

(b) N.o.p.:(1 ) Unstemmed

..per pound 20 cts .

(11) Stemmed

.per pound 30 ats.

Provided that the duty under this item shall be levied on the basis of "Standard leaf tobacco" consisting of teh per centum of water and ninety per centum of solid matter.

145 Cigars , the weight of the bands and ribbons to be included

in the weight for duty

...... per pound $1.75

and 15 p.o.

A406

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd )

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

143a Cigarettes , the weight of the paper covering to be in-

oluded in the weight for duty

..... per pound $2.00

and 15 p.c.

And in addition thereto , when weighing not more than three pounds per thousand , under all tariffs , $2.00 per thousand .

144 Cut tobacco

.per pound 80 cts .

And in addition thereto , under all tariffs , 15 cents per pound .

145 Manufactured tobacco , n.o.p. , and snuff ......... per pound 90 cts .
And in addition thereto ( except on snuff) , under all tariffs , 15 cents per pound .

146 Ale , beer , porter and stout , when imported in casks or

otherwise than in bottle

......... per gallon 35 cts .

And in addition thereto , under all tariffs , 30 cents per gallon.

147 Ale , beer , porter and stout , when imported in bottles .......

........

........ per gallon 50 cts .

And in addition thereto , under all tariffs , 30 cents per gallon .

Provided , that six quart bottles or twelve pint bottles shall be held to contain one gallon .

152 (1) Fruit Juices , n.o.p. , viz.:Lime .....
Orange Lemon ...
Passion fruit
Pineapple Grapefruit .... N.o.p.

10 p.c. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 10 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A407

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I - (Cont'd )

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
152

Description of Products (11) Fruit syrups , n.o.p.

Rate of Duty 10 p.c.

152a Papaine

5 p.c.

ex 156

Spirituous or alcoholic liquors ( subject to the provisions attaching to tariff item 156 ) , De
(1) Whisky ......... per gallon of the strength of proof
And in addition thereto , under all tariffs , $7.00 per gallon of the strength of proof .
( 11 ) Gin , n.o.p ..... per gallon of the strength of proof
And in addition thereto , under all tariffs , $7.00 per gallon of the strength of proof .
( 111 ) Rum, n.o.p. .... per gallon of the strength of proof
And in addition thereto , under all tariffs , $7.00 per gallon of the strength of proof .
(iv) Brandy ......... per gallon of the strength of proof
And in addition thereto , under all tariffs , $7.00 per gallon of the strength of proof .
(T) Liqueurs ....... per gallon of the strength of proof
And in addition thereto , under all tariffs , $7.00 per gallon of the strength of proof .

$5.00 $5.00 $6.00 $4.00 2.30

ex 156 Angostura bitters ..... per gallon of the strength of proof $5.00 156b

159 Spirits and strong waters of any kind , mixed with any in-

gredient or ingredients , as being or known or designated

as essences , extracts , or ethereal and spirituous fruit

essences , n.p. .....

.....per gallon $5.00

and 30 p.c.

A408

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
160

Description of Products
(1) Alcoholic perfumes : (a) When in bottles or flasks containing not more than four ounces each ......

Rate of Duty 30 p.o.

(b) When in bottles , flasks or other packages , con-
taining more than four ounces each .....per gallon and

$5.00 30 p.c.

(11 ) Perfumed spirits , bay rum , cologne and lavender waters , lotions , hair , tooth and skin washes , and other
toilet preparations containing spirits of any kind:(a) When in bottles or flasks containing not more than four ounces each ........

45 p.o.

(b) When in bottles , flasks or other packages , con-
taining more than four ounces each .... per gallon and

$5.00 30 p.o.

ox 162

Vermouth , aperitif and cordial wines , containing twenty-

eight per cent . or less of proof spirit , whether imported

in wood or in bottles ..........

.......................per gallon

And in addition thereto , under all tariffs , 42 cents per gallon .

Provided , that six quart bottles or twelve pint bottles
shall be held to contain a gallon for duty purposes under this tariff item.

20 cts .

ex 163

Wines of all kinds , n.o.p. , including orange , lemon , strawberry , raspberry , elder and current wines , containing twenty-four per cent . or less of proof spirit , whether imported in wood or in bottles ...................................... per gallon
And in addition thereto , under all tariffs , 42 cents per gallon.
Provided , that six quart bottles or twelve pint bottles shall be held to contain a gallon for duty purposes under this tariff item.

20 cts.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A409

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

165 Champagne and all other sparkling wines : (a) In bottles containing each not more than a quart but more than a pint (old wine measure ) ..per dozen bottles $5.00

And in addition thereto , $1.75 per gallon.

(b) In bottles containing not more than a pint sach, but

more than one-half pint (old wine measure )

.......

....... per dozen bottles

$2.50

And in addition thereto , $1.75 per gallon .

(e) In bottles containing one-half pint each or less ....

.......

................................. .per dozen bottles $1.25

And in addition thereto , $1.75 per gallon.

(a) In bottles containing over one quart each ( old wine

measure)

.................... per gallon $8,50

And in addition thereto , under all tariffs , $1.75 per gallon .

ex 167

Malt, whole , crushed or ground , n.o.p. , upon entry for warehouse subject to exdise regulations ........ per pound 1/3 at.

168 Malt flour containing less than fifty per centum in weight

of malt ; malt syrup or malt syrup powder , n.o.p .; oxtracts of malt , fluid or not ; grain molasses -- all

articles in this item upon valuation without British or

foreign excise duties , under regulations prescribed by the Minister
and , per pound

23 p... 5 cts.

168 Malt syrup , malt syrup powder , or other starch conversion

products produced by the action of enzymes on starch ,

not including any such products used in the brewing of beer ........

25 p.o.

169 Books , viz.:- Novels or works of fiction , or literature
of a similar character , unbound or paper bound or in sheets , but not to include Christmas annuals , or publications commonly known as juvenile and toy books .................... 10 p.c.

A410

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V- CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

ex 169 ex 184a ex 184b ex 1840
ex 1844

Periodical publications , unbound or paper bound , printed and issued at regular intervals , not less frequently than four times a year , and bearing dates of issue ......

Free

170 Books , periodicals and pamphlets , or parts thereof , printed , bound , unbound , or in sheets ( not to include blank account books , copy books , or books to be written or drawn upon) in any other than the English language ... Free

171 Books , printed , periodicals and pamphlets , or parts thereof , n.o.p. , not to include blank account books , oopy books , or books to be written or drawn upon .......

10 p.c.

ex 172

Tourist literature issued by national or state governments

or departments thereof , boards of trade , chambers of com-

merce , municipal and automobile associations , and similar

organizations

Free

ex 172

Prayer books , missals , psalters , religious pictures and mottoes

178 Advertising and printed matt r , viz.:- Advertising pan-

phlets , advertising show cards , illustrated advertising

periodicals ; price books , catalogues and price lists;

advertising almanacs and calendars ; patent medicine or

other advertising circulars , fly sheets or pamphlets ;

advertising chromos , chromotypes , oleographs or like work

produced by any process other than hand painting or

drawing , and having any advertisement or advertising

matter printed , lithographed or stamped thereon , or at-

tached thereto , including advertising bills , folders and

posters , or other similar artistic work , lithographed ,

printed or stamped on paper or cardboard for business or

advertisement purposes , n.o.p.:-

(11 ) N.o.p.

..per pound 10 cts. but not less than 25 p.o.

ex ( 11 ) Advertising and printed matter , whether inported by mail or otherwise , when in individual packages valued at not more than $1.00 each and
when not imported for sale or in a manner designed to evade payment of customs duties ............... Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A411

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

179 Labels for cigar boxes , fruits , vegetables , meats , fish, confectionery or other goods or wares ; shipping , price or other tags , tickets or labels , and railroad or other tickets , whether lithographed or printed , or partly printed , n.o.p.

Rate of Duty 224 p...

180 ( 1) Photographs , chromos , ohromotypes , artotypes , oleo-
graphs , paintings , drawings , pictures , engravings or
prints or proofs therefrom, and similar works of art, n.o.p ....

20 p.o.

(ii ) Decalcomania transfers of all kinds , n.o.p.

20 p ...

( 111) Blue prints , building plans , maps , and charts, .0.. 20 p...

1800 Decalcomania transfers , when imported exclusively for use in the manufacture of vitreous enamelled products ar of table ware of china, porcelain or semi- porcelain

9 p...

181 Bank notes , bonds , bills of exchange , oheques , promissory

notes , drafts and all similar work, unsigned , and cards or other commercial blank forms printed or lithographed,

or printed from steel or copper or other plates , and other printed matter, n.o.p.

224 p...

181a Pictorial post- cards , greeting cards and similar artistic oards or folders .....
184 Newspapers , unbound , n.o.p .; tailors ' , milliners ' and mantle-makers ' fashion plates when imported in single copies in sheet form with periodical trade journals

25 p ... Free

187 Albumenized and other papers and films chemically prepared

for photographers ' use , n.o.p. .....

20 p.o.

187a Hypersensitive or supersensitive panchromatic films and infra-red films , unexposed , for aerial photography ....... 10 p.o.

187b Sensitized negative film, one and one-half inches in width

or over, for exposure in motion picture cameras .....

10 p...

188 Plain basic photographic paper, baryta coated , for use

exclusively in manufacturing albumenized or sensitized

photographio paper ......

Free

A412

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
189

Description of Products
Tubes and cones of all sizes , made of paper , adapted for winding yarns thereon ...

Rate of Duty Free

192 Tarred paper and prepared roofings ( including shingles) , fibreboard , strawboard , sheathing and insulation , manu-
factured wholly or in part of vegetable fibres , n.o.p .; blotting paper , not printed nor illustrated

22 p.c.

1926 Sandpaper , glass or flint paper , and emery paper or emery cloth

20 p.o.

1920 Roofing and shingles of saturated felt

221 p.c.

192d Electrical insulating pressboard , not less than .040 inch in thickness

12 p.c.

1921 Paperboard or fibreboard , single ply , not coated nor impregnated , in rolls containing not less than five hundred

square feet , when imported by manufacturers of im-

pregnated socklining base , innersoling , welting , or simi-

lar materials , for use only in the manufacture of such materials in their own factories

7p.c.

193 Paper sacks or bags of all kinds , printed or not ....

221 p.C.

194 Playing carde , in packs or in sheet form, n.o.p .; cards
and sheets partly lithographed or printed , for use in the manufacture of such playing cards..per pack or equivalent 7 cts.

195 Paper hanging or wall paper , including borders or bordering

22 p.o.

197 Paper of all kinds , n.o.p. ....

22 p...

197b Wrapping paper of all kinds , not pasted , coated or embossed .....

22 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A413

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Comedian Tariff Item
Nt ber
1970

Description of Products
(1) Cigarette paper , ungumed , in rolls (11 ) Cigarette paper , ungummed , in sheets containing not less than thirty-two square inches

Rate of Duty 15 p.o. 15 p.o.

1970 Electric cable insulating paper , .0045 inch or less in thickness , and condenser tissue paper ...

10 p.c.

198 Ruled and border and coated papers , boxed papers , pads not

printed , papier-mâché ware , n.o.p.

25 p.o.

198b Cigarette paper , gunned , in rolls
199 Papeteries , envelopes , and all manufactures of paper, n.o.p. ....

15 p.c. 25 p.o.

199 Containers wholly or partially manufactured from fibreboard

or paperboard ......

........ per pound 4/5 ct .

Provided , that in no case shall the rate of duty be less than

20 p.o.

1990 Waxed stencil paper for use on duplicating machines

25 p.o.

1998 Cigarette papers , gummed or not , in tubes , booklets or packets

20 p.o.

1991 Hand made papers , not to include mould -made deckle -edge

papers , valued at not less than 40 cents per pound whole-

sale .....

22 p.o.

1998 Duplex backing papers or wrappers including those printed and/or skived for use in the packaging of photographic roll films ; inter-leaving and wrapping paper , black , green , or red , for packaging flat photographic films and photographic papers ; when imported by manufacturers of
photographic films and photographic papers for use in their own factories in the packaging of such films and papers .........

12 p.c.

95347 0-49- pt. 5-27

A414

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE Y · CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
200

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Pulp of wood , of straw or of any other vegetable fibre .... Free

203 Chemical compounds composed of two or more acids or salts

soluble in water , adapted for dyeing or tanning .....

10 3.0.

2036 Aniline and coal tar dyes , adapted for dyeing , in bulk , or in packages of not less than one pound weight

10 p.e.

1 11111

204 Drugs , such as barks , flowers , roots , beans , berries ,

balsams , bulbs , fruits , insects , grains , gums and gua resins , herbs , leaves , nuts , fruit and stem seeds - which

are not edible and which are in a crude state and not

advanced in value by refining or grinding , or any other

process of manufacture , n.o.p. ......

Free

205 Roots , medicinal , viz.:- Alkanet , erude , crushed or ground; aconite , calumba , folia digitalis , gentian , ginseng, jalap , ipecacuanha , iris , orris-root , liquorice , | sarsaparilla , squills , taraxacum, rhubarb and valerian , unground ......

206b Dextrose (glucose ) solutions , prepared for parenteral administration in therapeutic treatments ; component materials and articles to be used in making such preparations .....

ex 208 Sulphur and brimstone , crude or in roll or flour

ex 208 Cyanide of sodium

0x 208 Sulphate of ammonia

ex 208 Iodine , crude

208a Chloride of lime and hy, cchlorite of lime:-

1. When in packages of not less than twenty -five pounds

weight each

.per one hundred pounds 15 ots .

2080 Dehydrated sulphate of copper for agricultural or spraying

purposes .......

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A415

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
2080

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Cresylic acid and compounds of cresylic acid , used in the process of concentrating ores , metals or minerals , n.o.p. 15 p.c.

208h Ethylene glycol , when imported by manufacturers for use

exclusively in the manufacture of anti -freesing compounds

or of explosives , in their own factories .......

Free

2081 (1 ) Nitrate of ammonia , when imported for use in the manu-

facture of nitrous oxide ........

10 p.e.

(11 ) Nitrate of ammonia , n.o.p.

25 p.c.

(111 ) Sal ammoniac ......

23 p.c.

2081 Bichloride of tin and tin crystals

10 p.o.

208m Sulphate of copper (blue vitriol )

10 p.e.

208n Sulphate of iron ( copperas) ......

10 p.o.

2080 Cream of tartar in crystals and tartaric acid crystals ... 10 p.c.

208q Oxalic acid

10 p..

208r Oxide of sin or of copper

15 p.c.

2088 Sulphate of zine and chloride of zinc

20 p.e.

208t All chemicals and drugs , n.o.p. , of a kind not produced in Canada

15 p.c.

......

ex 208t Bicarbonate of soda

12 p.o.

ex 206t Butyl alcohol , n.o.p.

20 p.c.

A416

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

208u Xanthates and sulpho-thio-phosphoric ( dithio-phosphoric )
compounds , for use in the process of concentrating ores , metals or minerals ......

Rate of Duty Free

2081 Methyl ethyl ketone , n.o.p. , and isopropyl acetate

25 p.c.

208w Theobromine , crude , and dimethyl sulphate .....

Free

209c Bichromate of potash , crude ; red and yellow prussiate of potash

15 p.c.

210 (1) Peroxide of soda ; silicate of soda , dry or in water solution ; sulphide of sodium; nitrite of soda ; arseniate , binarseniate , bisulphite and stannate of soda ; prussiate of soda ............. .
(ii ) Bichromate , sulphite and chlorate of soda

12 p.c. 12p.c.

2100 Sodium, sulphate cf , crude , or salt cake

..per pound 1/4 ct.

2100 Nitrate of soda or cubic nitre

Free

212 Sulphate of alumina or alum cake ; and alum in bulk , ground or unground , but not calcined

10 p.c.

215 Stearic acid , n.o.p. 216 Acids , n.o.p. , of a kind not produced in Canada

124 p.o. 15 p.c.

216d Phthalic anhydride , adipic , abietic , maleic and succinic

acids , hexamethylene diammonium adipate , hexamethylene

diammonium sebacate , caprolactam , and ethylene glycol ,

when imported by manufacturers of synthetic resins , for

use exclusively in the manufacture of synthetic resins ,

in their own factories ....

Free

218 Acid phosphate , not medicinal ....

25 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A417

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

219 (1 ) Solutions of peroxide of hydrogen , n.o.p. .....

(ii) Solutions of hydrogen peroxide containing twenty-five per centum or more by weight of hydrogen peroxide .......

Rate of Duty 22 p.c. 22 p.o.

2198 Non-alcoholic preparations or chemicals for disinfecting , or for preventing , destroying , repelling , or mitigating fungi , weeds , insects , rodents , or other plant or animal pests, n.o.p.:(1) When in packages not exceeding three pounds each , gross weight ......
(11) Otherwise

124p.c. 7p.c.

219b Formaldehyde , containing not more than fifteen per centum

of alcohol ...

Free

2194 Sulphuric ether ; chloroform, n.o.p .; preparations of vinyl ether for anaesthetic purposes ..................

20 p.o.

220 All medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations , compounded of more than one substance , including patent and proprietary preparations , tinctures , pills , powders , troches , lozenges , filled capsules , tablets , syrups , cordials , bitters , anodynes , tonics , plasters , liniments , salves , ointments , pastes , drops , waters , essences and oils , A.O.P.:(1) When dry

20 p.c.

(11) Liquid , when containing not more than two and onehalf per centum of proof spirit ........

22 p.c.

Provided , also , that drugs , pill-mass and preparations , not including pills or medicinal plasters , recognized by the British or United States pharmacopoeia , the Canadian Formulary or the French Codex as officinal , shall nt be held to be covered by this item .

A418

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - GANADA Part I ( Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

2208 Chemical preparations , compounded of more than one substance , n.o.p.:~ (1) When dry ......

20 p.c.

Liquid containing not more than two and one-half per centum of proof spirit ...

20 p.c.

(11) All others .....

25 p.c.

Provided that any article in this item containing more

than forty per cent. of proof spirit shall be rated for

duty at

.................per gallon

and

$3.00 30 p.o.

ex 225 Carnauba wax

Free

226 (1) Toilet soap , n.o.p. .... (11 ) Soap powders , powdered soap , mineral soap , and soap,

22 p.c. 20 p.o.

229 Soap, common or laundry

per one hundred pounds $1.50

2.30 Castile soap , the weight of the cartons and wrappings to

be included in the weight for duty

..per pound 1 ot .

251b Gelatine , edible , when imported for use exclusively in the

manufacture of capsules for the manufacture or compounding

of medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations

Free

232 (1) Glue , n.o.p. (ii) Gelatine, n.o.p.

and , per pound

22 p.c. 5 cts.
22 p.c.

2326 Vegetable glue ...

27 p.o.

2320 Gelatine , edible

25 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A419

SCHEDULE V CANADA Part I (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

2321 Mucilage and adhesive paste

1 Rate of Duty

and, per pound

20 p.c. 2 cts .

234 Perfumery, including toilet preparations , non-alcoholio , viz.:- Hair oils , tooth and other powders and washes , ponatums , pastes and all other perfumed preparations , n.o.p. , used for the hair, mouth or skin ......

25 p.c.

236 Surgical dressings , antiseptic or aseptic , including absorbent cotton, lint , lamb's wool , tow , jute , oakum, woven fabric of cotton weighing not more than seven and
one-half pounds per one hundred square yards , whether imported singly or in combination one with another , but not stitched or otherwise manufactured; surgical trusses and suspensory bandages of all kinds ; sanitary napkins , and abdominal supports

20 p.c.

238a Manufactures of pyroxylin plastics , or of which pyroxylin plastic is the component of ohiof value , n.o.p.

25 p.o.

ex 238 Cinematograph or moving picture films , negatives , n.o.p. .. 10 p.o.

2389 Regenerated cellulose , and cellulose acetate , transparent ,

in sheets , not printed, and manufactures of regenerated cellulose or of cellulose acetate , n.o.p. .....

25 p.c.

239 Lamp black, carbon black , ivory black and bone black ...... Free

240 Ultramarine blue , dry or in pulp; whiting or whitening; Paris white and gilders ' whiting; blanc fixe ; satin white . 10 p.c.

2418 Litharge, n.o.p. ....

15 p..

242 Dry red lead ; orange mineral ; antimony oxide , titanium oxide, and zinc oxide such as zinc white and lithopone ; white pigments containing not less than 14 per cent . by weight of titanium dioxide .....

12 p...

245 Day white lead 244 White lead ground in oil

20 p.c. 25 r..

245 Ochres, ochrey earths, siennas and umbers

15 p.0.

A420

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE Y -CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

246 Oxides, fireproofs , rough stuff, fillers , laundry blueing, and colours , dry, n.o.p. .....

Rate of Duty 17p.c.

2466 Stains and oxides , valued at not less than 20 cents per

pound , for use exclusively as colouring constituents in

the manufacture of vitreous enamels and pottery glazes ;

finely divided metals or compounds of metals , whether

dry, or suspended or dissolved in a liquid , for use ex-

clusively in the manufacture of tableware of china , por-

celain or semi -porcelain

p.o.

247 Liquid fillers , anti-corrosive and anti-fouling paints , and

ground and liquid paints , n.o.p. ...

20 p.

2478 (1) Artists' and school shildren's colours ; fitted boxes containing the same .................
(11) Artists ' brushes; pastels , of a value of one cent per stick, or over ; artists' canvas , coated and prepared for oil painting

15 p.c. 22 pic.

248 Paints and colours , ground in spirits , and all spirit

varnishes and lacquers

.per gallon 85 ots.

249 Varnishes , lacquera , japans , japan driera , liquid driers ,

and oil finish , a.o.p. .............

.............per gallon 15 ets.

and 15 p..

250 Paris green, dry

74 p...

252 Shoe blacking ; shoemimrs ' ink; shoe , harness and leather dressing, and knife or other polish or composition , n.o.p
253 Putty of all kinds

19 p.o. 22 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A421

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

254 Gums " viz.:( 1 ) Copal , damar , benzoin , Pontianac , nattakuching ..... Free

( 11 ) Barberry , elemi , gedda , Senegal , tragacanth , mastic

and sandarac ............ ..

Free

( 111 ) Australian and kauri ; lac , crude , seed , button , stick and shell ; ambergris; gums and blends consisting wholly or in chief part of guma , n.o.p .....

10 p.o.

256 Printing ink

15 p.o.

259a Sesame seed oil , orude

224 p...

261 Turpentine , spirits of

Free

262 olive oil , n.o.p.

10 p.c.

263 Compounds of tetraethyl lead , in which tetraethyl lead is the preponderant constituent by weight .....

5 p.c.

264 (1) Essential oils , natural , viz.:- Geranium , rose , ylang-

ylang , lemon , bergamot , orange , mandarin , citronella ,

clove and lemon grass ......

Free

(11 ) Essential oils , natural and synthetic , n.c.p .; essen-
tial oils , natural and synthetic , containing other nonalcoholic material , n.o.p. , for use in the manufacture of products or preparations for medicinal , flavouring , toilet, or other purposes , under such regulations as the Minister may prescribe

7p.c.

2640 Menthol , natural or synthetic

Free

265 011 , whale , including spermaceti

15 p.c.

265a Fish oils , n.o.p.

20 p.c.

265b Cod liver oil , crude or refined

15 p..

A422

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

265c Halibut liver oil , crude or refined

Rate of Duty 20 p...

x 266 China wood oil

Free

267b Petroleum tops ; blends of petroleum tops or petroleum

products with crude petroleum ; all the foregoing .7249

specific gravity ( 63.7 A.P.I. ) or heavier , at 60 degrees

Fahrenheit , when imported by oil refiners to be refined

in their own factories

....... per gallon

1 ot .

292 Refined petroleum jellies and oil for toilet , medicinal , edible , or similar purposes ......
ox 273 Asphalt or asphaltum , solid

20 p.c. 10 po.

274 Petroleum coke

Free

ex 276b Cx 277 ex 278b ex 278c

Vegetable oils , crude , when imported to be refined for edible purposes , viz . ; - Cotton seed , pa and pala kernel , peanut and corsanut

10 p.c.

ex 277 Shea butter

10 p.a.

2780 Castor oil

Free

ex 208t

ex 711

ox 281

Fire brick containing not less than ninety per cent . of silica; magnesite fire brick or chrome fire brick; other fire brick valued at not less than one hundred dollars
per one thousand , rectangular shaped , the dimensions of each not to exceed one hundred and twenty-five cubic inches , but not inling fire brick made substantially of silicon carbide and/or fused alumina fUI 190 exclusively in the construction or repair of a furnace , kiln or other equipment of a manufacturing establishDent

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A423

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

281a Fire brick , n.o.p. , of a class or kind not made in Canada ,
for use exclusively in the construction or repair of a furnace , kiln , or other equipment of a manufacturing establishment .....

Rate of Duty

281b Fire brick, n.o.p.

15 p.

282 Building brick and paving brick

15 p.e.

28.20 Manufactures of clay or cement , n.o.p. .....
284 (1) Drain pipes , sewer pipes and earthenware fittings therefor , chimney linings or vents , chimney tops and inverted blocks , glazed or unglazed , n.o.p. ... (11) Earthenware tiles , n.o.p. ......

174 p.0.

284a Earthenware tiles , for roofing purposes

8

285 Tiles or blocks of earthenware or of stone prepared for mosaic flooring ...

20 p.e

286 Earthenware and stoneware , viz.:- Demijohns , churns or erocks , n.o.p. .....

20 p...

287 All tableware of china , porcelain , semi -porcelain , or white granite , but not to include tea-pots , jugs and
similar articles of the type commonly known as earthenWare ....

288 Stoneware and Rockinghan ware and earthenware , n.o.p.

A424

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian
Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

288a Chemical stoneware composed of a non-absorbent vitrified body specially compounded to resist aoids or other corrosive reagents

20 p.o.

2886 Hand forms of porcelain, when imported by manufacturers
for use exclusively in the manufacture of rubber gloves in their own factories

20 p..

289 Baths , bathtubs , basins , closets , closet seats and covers ,

oloset tanks , lavatories , urinals , sinks and laundry

tubs of earthenware , stone , cement , olay or other

material, n.o.p.

25 p...

ex 296 0liff, chalk, ohina or Cornwall stone , ground or unground. free

ex 296 Mica sohist

Free

ex 296b Magnesite , dead-burned or sintered

15 p...

ex 296b Magnesium carbonate , basic or otherwise , excepting crude TOOK .....

20 p.

2960 Magnesium carbonate , imported for use in the compounding or manufacture of rubber products .....

20 p ...

2964 Feldspar, ground but not further manufactured

15 p.0.

2960 Magnesite, calcined , not further manufactured than ground,

when imported by memfesturers of insulating materials

for use exclusively in the manufacture of such insulating

materials , in their own factories .....

Tree

297 Silex or crystallized quartz, ground or unground .......

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A425

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I · (Cont'd )

Canadian Tariff Item
Mamber

Description of Products

500 Crucibles, a.o.p. , and covers therefor

Rate of Duty 15 p.o.

ex 305 Marble, rough, not hammered or chiselled .....

10 p...

306 (1 ) Marble, Jawn or send rubbed , not polished .....

10 p.o.

(11) Granite, sawn ; paving blocks of stone ; flagstone and building stone, other than marble or granite , sawn on not more than two sides

15 p.c.

8060 Marble, not further manufactured than sewn , when imported by manufacturers of tombstones to be used exclusively in the manufacture of meh articles, in their own factories.. 10 p.o.

ex 303 Manufactures of alabaster, a.o.p.

221 p...

818 Asbestos in any form other than crude , and all maITUfactures thereof, n.o.p. ......

18 p.0.



Asbestos in any form other than crude , and all manufactures thereof , when made from crude asbestos of British Commonwealth origin. n.o. 2 , · · · · ·

10 p.o.

$13 Plumbago , not ground or otherwise manufactured

p.o.

314 Plumbago, ground, and manufactures of, n.o.p. , and foundry

facings of all kinds ......

28 p...

315 Carbons or carbon electrodes over three inches in circum-

ference or outside measurement and not exceeding thirty-

five inches in circumference or outside measurement ;

carbons of a class or kind not produced in Canada , when

imported for use in the manufacture of dry batteries and

dry cells ......

Free

316 Electric light and are carbons, pointed or not , and

contact carbons , n.o.p. .......

25 p ..

and , per pound 10 ets .

A426

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V- CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

abadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

316a Incandescent lamp bulbs for use in the manufacture of incandescent lamps ; glass tubing for use in the manufaoture of incandescent lamps, vials and ampoules ; glass tubing,
a.o.p., in straight lengths of not less than three feet; mantle stocking for gas light .......

317 Glass out to size, adapted for use in the manufacture of

dry plates for photographic purposes, when imported by

the manufacturers of such dry plates for use exclusively

in the manufacture thereof in their own factories ...

Free

318 Common and colourless window glass

10 p.0.

319 Glasa, in sheets, and bent plate glass, n.o.p.

20 p.e.

320 Plate glass , not bevelled, in sheets or panes not exceeding

seven square feet each , n.o.p. .......

10 p.o.

$21 Plate glass, not bevelled, in sheets or panes , exceeding seven square feet each, and not exceeding twenty- five square feet sach, n.o.p. ....

20 p..

322 Plate glass , n.o.p.

25 p.0.

325 Mirrors of glass, and silvered glass , bevelled or not and

framed or not , n.o.p. ......

224 p...

325 Stained or ornamental glass windows

15 p..

326 (1 ) Demijohns or carboys, bottles , flasks, phials , jars and balls, of glass , not out , n.o.p .; lamp chimneys of glass, n.o.p.; decanters and machine-made tumblers of glass, not out nor decorated , n.o.p. ......

Bat p...

(11 ) Glass tableware , n.o.p. , and illuminating glassware,

no.p.......

P.Q.

(111 ) Opal glassware, out glass tableware and cut glassware, n.o.p ......

281 p.o.

326a Manufactures of glass, n.o.p.

174 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A427

SCHEDULE Y · CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Humber

Description of Prodsets

Rate of Duty

3260 Articles of glass , not plate or sheet, designed to be cut

or mounted; articles of glassware , when imported by manu-

facturers of silverware to be used in receptacles made of

er electro-plated with precious metals or to be equipped

with tops made of or electro-plated with precious metals,

in their own factories .......

Free

3268 High thermal shock resisting glassware

15 p...

327 Spectacles ; syeglasses, and ground or finished spectacle or eyeglass lenses , n.o.p.
330 Antimony, or regulus of, not ground, pulverized ar otherwise manufactured ...
359a Lead capsules for bettlas
839b Collapsible tubes of lead or tin or lead coated with tin

22 p.o. Free 25 p.o. 27 p.c.

340 Type for printing, including chases, quoins and slugs, of

all kinds ....

17p.o.

341

Babbit metal and type metal, in blocks, bars , plates and

shoots ....

20 p...

345 Zino dust, strip and sheets ; zino plates for marine

boilers; sal ammoniac skimmings and seamless drama

tubing of sine

Free

346

Zino , manufactures of, n.o.p.

17 p.o.

346a Zine sluge or disos, when imported by manufacturers of

electric dry batteries for use in the manufacture of

seamless cups or shells for such batteries, in their own

factories ...

Free

A428

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V CANADA Part I - (Cont'd )

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
3480

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Brass scrap and brass in blocks, ingots or pigs ; copper in bars or rods, not less than six feet in length, un-
manufactured, n.o.p.; copper in strips , sheets or plates, not polished, planished or coated ; brass or copper tubing, in lengths not less than six feet , and not polished, bent or otherwise manufactured ...

10 p.o.

350 Wire of all metals and kinds, n.o.p.

20 p ...

351 Wire, single or several, covered with any material, ineluding cable so covered, n.o.p.

20 p.a.

551b Wire cloth, or woven wire of brass or copper

20 p.o.

352 Brass and copper nails, tacks , riveta and burrs or washers ;

bells and gongs , n.o.p.; and manufactures of brass or

copper, n.o.p.

20 p.o.

ex 352 ex 3620 ex 432d ex 446a ex 506

Metal parts in any degree of manufacture , coated or not, and wooden parts in the rough, when imported by manufacturers of spools, quills , pirns, bobbins and shuttles, for use in the manufacture of such articles, in their own factories ...

10 p.o.

365 Aluminum and alloys thereof, crude or semi -fabricated :-

(1) Pigs, ingots , blocks, notch bars, slabs , billets ,

blooms, and wire bars .....

...... per pound 2 ots.

(11 ) Bars, rods , plates , sheets , strips , circles, squares,

dises and rectangles ....

..... per pound 3 ots.

( 111 ) Angles , channels, beams , tees and other rolled , drawn or extruded sections and shapes ......

22 p...

(iv) Wire and cable , twisted or stranded or not , and whether reinforced with steel or not
(v) Pipes and tubes .....

221 p.o. 22 p.o.

(vi ) Leaf, n.o.p. , or foil , less than .005 inch in thickness, plain or embossed , with or without baoking ; aluminum powder

30 p...

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A429

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I (Cont'd )

Canadian Tariff Item
Fumber
3538

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

(1) Aluminum leaf, less than .005 millimetre in thickness . Free

(11) Alumima scrap

Free

Provided, that nothing shall be deemed to be alumimm sorap except waste or refuse aluminum, fit only to be remelted.

864 Manufactures of aluminum, n.o.p. ....

224 p...

354a Kitchen or household hollow-ware of aluminum , n.o.p. ..... 22 p...

357 Britannia metal , nickel silver, Nevada and German silver,

manufactures of, not plated , n.o.p.

25 p.o.

361 Gold and silver leaf; Dutch or schlag metal leaf; brocade

and bronze powders

30 p.c.

362 Artioles consisting wholly or in part of sterling or other

silverware , n.o.p .; manufactures of gold or silver,

n.o.p. ....

27 p.o.

562a Metal parts, electro-plated , for loose -leaf binders ...... 174 p.o.

862b Toilet articles of all kinds , including atomizers , brushes,

buffers, button hooks , combs , cuticle knives , hair

receivers , hand-mirrors , jewel boxes , manicure scissors ,

nail files , perfume bottles , puff jars , shoe horns, trays

and tweezers , of which the manufactured component

material of chief value is sterling silver

30 p.o.

3620 Nickel-plated ware , gilt or electro- plated ware , n.o.p... 22 p...

364 Diamond dust or bort and black diamonds , for borers ...... Free

365a Findings of metal , not plated or coated , including stampings , trimmings , spring-rings , bolt-rings , clasps , snaps , swivels , vest chain bars , joints , catches , pin tongues , buokle tongues , ooil pins , clip actions , settings and eyepins , when imported by manufacturers of jewellery or ornaments for the adornment of the person, for use exclusively in the manufacture of such articles , in their own factories

20 p.o.

95347 O 49 -pt. 5--28

A430

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

365b Wire or strip , viz.:- Gold , gold -filled , silver, silverfilled , brass or nickel silver , knurled , twisted , figured or with ornamental design rolled or drawn thereon, and wire of nickel silver , plain , in coil or otherwise , when imported by manufacturers of jewellery or ornaments for the adornment of the person , for use exclusively in the manufacture of such articles , in their own factories .. 15 p...

566 Watches of all kinds but not less than

30 p.o. .each 40 ots.

366a Watch actions and movements , finished or unfinished

15 p.o.

but not less than ....

.each 40 ots.

366b Parts of watch movements , finished or unfinished

15 p ...

Provided the duty on plates designed to hold in place

four or more wheels or other moving parts shall be not

less than

........ per plate

5 ots.

367 Watch cases , and parts thereof, finished or unfinished .... 25 p.o.

568 Olooks , time recorders , clock movements , olookwork

mechanisms , and clock cases but not less than

30 p.0. ...each 40 ots.

369 Parts of clook movements or of clockwork mechanisms , finished or unfinished , not including plates

25 p.o.

370 Copper rollers , and stones , used in the printing of textile fabrios or wallpaper

10 p...

375 Ferro-alloys :-

(o) Ferro-silicon, being a ' loy of iron and silicon

oontaining 8 per centum or

weight , of silicon

and less than 60 per centum ....

...... per pound ,

or fraction thereof , on the silicon contained therein 1 ot.

(f) All alloys used in the manufacture of steel or iron, n.o.p.

5 p.0.

377a Blooms, cogged ingots , slabs , billets , n.o.p. , sheet bars , of iron or steel , by whatever process made , n.o.p. ....... per ton $4.00

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A431

SOHEDULE - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Hunter
5770

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ingots, cogged ingots, blooms, slabs, billets , n.o.p. , of iron or steel, of a class or kind not made in Canada , when imported by manufacturers of forgings for use exclusively in the manufacture of forgings, in their own factories, under regulations prescribed by the Minister ...............)per tom

$5.00

3791 Bars or rods, of iron or steel , hot rolled, viz.:- Rounds over 4-7/8 inches in diameter and squares over 4 inches .................. ..per ton $6.00

378 Bars and roda, of iron or steel ; billets, of iron or steel ,
weighing less than sixty pounds per lineal yard:(a) Mot further processed than hot rolled, n...p..per tan $7.00

(b) Not further prosessed than hammered or pressed, A.O.D. .......

85 p...

(0) Oold rolled, drawn, reeled, turned or ground, n.o.p. 20 p.e.

(4) Hot rolled, valued at not less than 4 cents per pound, n.o.p. .........

104 p.o.

Bars or rods, of iron or steel, including billets weighing less than 60 pounds per lineal yard, hot rolled, as hereunder defined, under regulations prescribed by the Minister:-
(0) Bars of iron or steel, hot rolled , 5 inches in diameter and larger , when imported by manufacturers of polished shafting for use in their own factories .. per

$7.00

(1) Sash or vasement sections of iron or steel , hot or cold rolled, not punohed , drilled nor further manufactured, when imported by manufacturers of metal window frames, for use in their own factories ....... ..per ton

$7.00

A432

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

380 Plates, of iron or steel , hot or cold rolled: (a ) Not more than 66 inches in width, n.o.p. ..... per ton $8.00

(b) More than 66 inches in width, n.o.p. ......... per ton $6.00

(e) Flanged, dished or curved , n.o.p. ...

25 p...

(d) With shequer, diamond or other raised pattern on

contact surface ....

...... per ton $8.00

381 Sheets, of iron or steel , hot or cold rolled : (a) .080 inch or less in thickness , n.o.p. ....

20 p.o.

(b) More than .080 inch in thickness , n... p . ..... per ton $6.00

882 Hoop, band or strip, of iron or steel : (a ) Hot rolled, .080 inoh or less in thickness , n.o.p. ·· 124 p...

(b ) Hot rolled, more than .080 inch in thickness ,

n.o.p.

..............................per ton $7.00

(a) Gold rolled or cold drawn , .080 inch or less in thickness, n.o.p. .....

20 p..

(d) Gold rolled or cold drawn, more than .080 inch in thickness, n.o.p. ...................

27 p.o.

385 Sheets, plates, hoop, band or strip, of iron or steel: (a) Coated with tin, of a class or kind not made in Canada, n.o.p. ......
(b) Coated with tin, n.o.p. ....
(e) Coated with sine , n.o.p. ............ ..
(d) Coated with metal or metals, n.o.p.
(e ) Coated with paint , tar , asphaltum or otherwise coated, n.o.p. ....
(f) Coated with vitreous enamel , n.o.p ..
(8) Corrugated , coated or not

10 p... 15 p ... 17p.c. 10 p.o.
12 p.o. 20 p ... 20 p ...

584 Skelp of iron or steel , hot rolled when imported by mam-

facturers of pipes and tubes for use exclusively in the

manufacture of pipes and tubes, in their own factories ,

under regulations prescribed by the Minister

5 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30 , 1947

A433

SCHEDULE Y - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

385 Sheets, plates, hoop , band or strip, of iron or steel , hot rolled, valued at not less than five cents per pound, a.o.p.

386a Sheets, plates, hoop, band or strip , of rust , acid or heat resisting steels , hot or cold rolled , polished or not, valued at not less than five cents per pound

Rate of Duty 184 p.o. 12 p.o.

......

Sheets, plates , hoop , band or strip , of iron or steel , as

hereunder defined , under regulations prescribed by the Minister:-

(a) Plates, when imported by manufacturers for use

exclusively in the manufacture or repair of the

pressure parts of boilers , pulp digesters , steam

accumulators and vessels for the refining of oil,

in their own factories ......

...... per ton

(e) Sheets, plates , hoop, band or strip, hot rolled, being mould boards, shares, cultivator or shoe shapes , plough plates, land sides or disc circles, when such rectangles , circles or sketches are cut to shape but not moulded, punohed, polished or otherwise manufactured , when imported by manufacturers of agricultural implements for use exclusively in the manufacture of agricultural implements, in their own factories .....

(b) Sheets, plates , hoop , band or strip , hardened, tempered or ground , not further manufactured than out to shape , without indented edges, when imported by manufacturers of saws for use exclusively in the manufacture of saws , in their own factories ......

(k) Sheets , hot or cold rolled , whon imported by manufacturers of hollow-ware coated with vitreous enamel
or of apparatus designed for cooking or for heating buildings, for use exclusively in the manufacture of hollow-ware coated with vitreous enamel or of vitreous-enamelled sheets for apparatus designed for oooking or fe heating buildings

$5.00 Free 10 p.o. 10 p.o.

A434

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Oanadian Tariff Item
Number
386 (cont'd )

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

(m) ( 1 ) Sheets of iron or steel, cold rolled , when imported by manufacturers for use exclusively in the manufacture of sheets coated with tin
(11 ) Sheets, hoop, band or strip, of iron or steel , hot rolled , when imported by manufacturers for use exclusively in the manufacture of sheets , hoop , band or strip, coated with zine or other metal or metals , not including tin, in their own factories
(p) Sheets of iron or steel , hot or cold rolled , with silicon content of .075 p.o. or more , when imported by manufacturers of electrical apparatus, for use in the manufacture of electrical apparatus in their own factories .................
(a ) Hoop steel, hot or cold rolled , plain or coated, .064 inch or less in thickness , not more than three inches in width, when imported by manufacturers of barrels or kegs or by manufacturers of flat hoops for barrels and kegs, for use exclusively in their own factories ......

15 p.0. 174 p... 18 p... 124 p.c.

3870 Steel grooved ( or girder ) rails for electrio tramway use,

weighing not less than 75 pounds per lineal yard,

punohed, drilled , or not , of shapes and lengths not made

in Canada

........ per ton $7.00

388 Iron or steel angles , beams , channels , columns , girders, joists , tees , zees and other shapes or sections , not
punched, drilled or further manufactured than hot rolled , weighing not less than 35 pounds per lineal yard , n.o.p.; piling of iron or steel , not punched or drilled , weighing not less than 35 pounds per lineal yard , including interlooking sections , if any, used therewith, n.o.p... per ton $3.00

3880 Iron or steel angles, beams , channels , columns , girders ,

joists , tees , zees and other shapes or sections , not

punohed, drilled or further manufactured than hot rolled ,

n.o.p.; piling of iron or steel , not punched or drilled ,

including interloaking sections , if any, used therewith ,

n.o.p...

..per ton

$7.00

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A435

SCHEDULE V- CANADA Part I - (Cont'd )

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3881 Iron or steel angles, beams , channels , columns , girders , joists , piling , tees , zees, and other shapes or sections , punched , drilled or further manufactured than hot rolled or cast , n.o.p. ...

30 p...

388 Iron or steel side or centre sill sections , of all sizes not manufactured in Canada , weighing not less than 35 pounds per lineal yard , not punched , drilled or further manufactured , when imported by manufacturers of railway cars, for use in their own factories ..... per ton $3.00

300 Castings, of iron , malleable , n.o.p. ...

20 p.o.

390a Castings , of iron, non-malleable , n.o.p.

20 p ...

390b Castings, of steel , n.o.p.

20 p...

3900 Piston ring castings of iron or steel , in the rough as

from the moulds

Free

392 Forgings, of iron or steel , in any degree of manufacture ,

n.o.p.

25 p.0.

ex 392

Forged golf club heads of iron or steel , with or without face or similar marking , but not ground , polished , plated or otherwise finished

10 p...

3929 Forgings of iron or steel , in any degree of manufacture , hollow, machined or not , not less than 12 inches in
internal diameter; and all other forgings , solid or otherwise , in any degree of manufacture , of a weight of 20 tons or over

15 p.0.

393 Tires, of steel , in the rough , not drilled or machined in

any manner, for railway vehicles , including locomotives

and tenders

71 p.0.

A436

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULEY - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Jumber

Description of Products

594 Axles and axle bars , n.o.p. , and axle blanks , and parts thereof, of iron or steel : -
(a) For railway vehicles, including locomotives and tenders ....

(b) For other vehicles , n.o.p. (a ) N.o.p. ....

Rate of Daty
22 p.o. zat p...

396 Pipe , cast, of iron or steel , valued at not more than five

cents per pomd

$10.00

396a Pipe, cast, of iron or steel , n.o.p.

p...

397 Pipes and tubes , of wrought iron or steel , plain or coated : -

(a) Welded or seamless , with plain or processed ends, not more than 10 inches in diameter, n.o.p. .......

20 p...

(b) Welded or seamless , with plain or processed ends, more than 10 inches in diameter, n.o.p. .....

15 p..

(o ) Not joined, with plain ends, not more than inohes

in diameter, a.o.p. ...................

10 p...

(d) N.o.p.

15 p..

398 Pipes and tubes , of steel, seamless, cold drawn, plain ends, valued at not less than five cents per pound, n.o.p. .....

5 p.o.

5988 Pipes and tubes of iron or steel, seamless, cold dram , plain ends, polisher valued at not less than five cents

per pound; steel tubes, welded or seamless, more than

10 inches in diameter, with plain ends, when imported

for use exclusively in the manufacture or repair of rolls

for paper-making machinery .......

15 p.

400 Fittings and couplings of iron or steel , of every des oription, for iron or steel pipes and tubes ; complete parts thereof ......

zat p...

61 STAT. GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A437

SOHEDULE V · CANADA Part I - (Cont'd )

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

401 Wire , of iron or steel : (a ) Barbed fencing, coated or not

10 p.o.

(b) Twisted , braided or stranded , including wire rope or cable, coated or not , n.o.p.

25 p.o.

(0) Draw flat or cold rolled flat after drawing, coated or not, n.o.p. , not more than .25 inch in width and less than .1875 inch in thickness ......

20 p.o.

(d) Coated with zine or spelter , curved or not , in coils, .144 , 104, or .092 inch in diameter, with tolerance not to exceed .004 inch, and not for use in telegraph or telephone lines , n.o.p. .....

10 p.o.

(e) Coated with zinc or spelter, n.o.p.

20 p.c.

(f) Single or several , coated , n.o.p. , or covered with any material, including cable so covered
(g) N.o.p. .....

30 p.c. 15 p.o.

402a Woven or welded wire fencing, of iron or steel , coated or

not, n.o.p.; wire cloth or wire netting , of iron or steel ,

coated or not

25 p.o.

402b Woven netting, of iron or steel , coated , made from wire of

17 gauge or heavier, with meshes not smaller than one

inch and not larger than two inches , with specially

strengthened joints , when for use exclusively on fur farms,

under regulations prescribed by the Minister: -

( 1 ) of a class or kind not made in Canada

17 p.o.

(11 ) N.o.p.

20 p.0.

403 Wire, of steel : -
(o) Valued at not less than 24 cents per pound , when imported by manufacturers of wire rope for use exclusively in the manufacture of wire rope , in their own factories, under regulations prescribed by the Minister

5 p.0.

404 Springs, of iron or steel : (b) For the running gear of other vehicles , n.o.p. ....... 274 p.o.

A438

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE - QANADA Part I - (Oct'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
406

Description of Products

Date of Duty

Ooil chain , coil chain links , including repair links, and chain shackles, of iron or steel : (a) One and one-eighth inches in diameter and over ...............
(b) Less than one and one-eighth inches in diameter

5 p.e. 25 p...

407 Silent chain and finished roller chain, of iron or steel, and complete parts thereof, of a class or kind not made in Canada , n.o.p. , either chain of the type which operates over gears or sprockets with machine out teeth .. 15 p...

407a Chains , of iron or steal , a.o.p. , and complete parts thereof ...............
408 Malleable sprocket chain and link belting chain of iron or steel , including roller shain of all kinds for operating on steel sprockets er gears , when imported by manufacturers of agricultural implements for use exolusively in the manufacture of agricultural implements, in their own factories, under regulations prescribed by the Minister ......
409 Cream separators and complete parts therefor, including steel bowls ......

25 p.
Free Free

409b Oultivators, harrows , seed-drills , horse-rakes , horse-

hoes, soufflers, manure spreaders, garden seeders ,

weeders, and complete parts of all the foregoing

Free

4090 Ploughs; farm, field, law or garden rollers ; soil packers ; complete parts of all the foregoing

409d Mowing machines, harvesters, either self-binding or without

binders , binding attachments , reapers, harvesters in

combination with threshing machine separators including

the motive power incorporated therein, and complete parts

of all the foregoing .. ...................

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A439

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

409e (1 ) Spraying and dusting machines and attachments therefor,

including hand sprayers ; apparatus specially designed for

sterilizing bulbs ; pressure testing apparatus for

determining maturity of fruit ; pruning hooks ; pruning

shears; animal dehorning instruments ; and complete parts

of all the foregoing ......

Free

(11) Fruit and vegetable grading , grating , washing and

wiping machines and combination bagging and weighing

machines, and complete parts thereof ; machines for topping

vegotables, and machines for bunching and/or tying out

flowers, vegetables and nursery stock, and complete parts

thereef; machines and complete parts thereof for making

or lidding boxes for fruit or vegetables ; ogg-graders and

ogg-cleaners , and complete parts thereof, not including

aluminum parts ......

Free

1 1 1 111

409f Hay loaders , hay tedders , potato planters, potato diggers,

fodder or feed outters, ensilage outters , grain erushers

and grain or hay grinders for farm purposes only, post

hole diggers, saaths, stumping machines , grain loaders

or elevators with a capacity not exceeding 40 bushels

per minute and all other agricultural implements or

agricultural machinery, n.o.p. , and complete parts of all

the foregoing .........................

Free

4096 Incubators for hatching eggs , brooders for rearing young fowl, and complete parts of all the foregoing

409h Hay presses and complete parts thereof

4091 Saythes, sickles or reaping hooks , hay or straw knives, edging knives, hoes, pronged forks , rakes , n.o.p. .................

4091 Fanning mills; peaviners ; corn husking machines ; threshing
machine separators, including weighers , wind stackers, baggers and self-feeders therefor ; complete parts of all the foregoing ......

409k Windmills and complete parts thereof, not including shafting

A440

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian
Tariff Item Ramber

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

4091 Traction ditching machines (not being ploughs) and complete

parts thereof .....

Free

409 Internal combustion traction engines ; traction attachments designed to be combined with automobiles in Canada for
use as traction engines ; complete parts of all the foregoing

400p Pasteurizers for dairying purposes and complete parts thereof

15 p...

410 Face loading machines , shaker trough or belt trough

conveyors , air engines , flame proof enclosed driving

motors, of a class or lind not made in Canada , and

integral parts of all motive power or machinery mentioned

in this item, for use exclusively at the face in mining

operations

10 p.c.

4106 Machinery and apparatus for use exclusively in washing or

dry cleaning coal at coal mines or coke plants; machinery

and apparatus for use exclusively in producing coke and

gas; machinery and apparatus for use exclusively in the distillation or recovery of products from coal tar or

gas; and complete parts of all the foregoing, not to

include motive power, tanks for gas, nor pipes and

valves 10 inches or less in diameter

10 p.o.

4104 Well-drilling machinery and apparatus, and complete parts

thereof, for use exclusively in drilling for water,

natural gas or oil, or in prospecting for minerals, not

to include motive power; machinery and apparatus of a class or kind not made in Canada for maintenance and

testing purposes in connection with gas or oil wells ;

well-packers and complete parts thereof , for oil or gas

wells; seamless iron or steel tubing of a class or kind

not made in Canada, for use in essing water, natural gas

or oil wells

Free

410J Miners' acetylene lamps and complete parts thereof; miners'

safety lamps and complete parts thereof ; accessories for

eleaning, filling, charging, opening and testing miners'

lamps ; battery renewal preparations for miners ' electric

safety lamps; all for use exclusively in mines .......

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A441

CANADA Part I - foont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
4101

Description of Products

Date of Duty

Ore crushers, rosk erushers , stamp mills, grinding mills, reek drills, percussion coal cutters, soal augers, rotary coal drills, n.o.p. , and complete parts of all the foregoing , for use exclusively in mining, metallurgical or quarrying operations

15 p.o.

410 Diamond drills and sore drills , not including motive power,

electrically operated rotary coal drills, and soal cutting|

machines, a... p. , and integral parts of the foregoing, for

use exclusively in mining operations ........

10 p.o.

41Ou Blowers, of iron or steel , n.o.p.. for use in the smelting

of ores, or in reduction , separation or refining of

metals, ores or minerals; rotary kilns, revolving

roasters and furnaces of metal , n.o.p. , for use in the

roasting of ore , mineral, rock or clay; furnace slag

trucks and slag pots , n.o.p.; and integral parts of all the foregoing .....

174 p.8.

410% Machinery and apparatus , n.o.p. , and complete parts thereof, for the recovery of solid or liquid partielos
from flue or other waste gases at metallurgical or industrial plants, not to include motive power, tanks
for gas, nor pipes and valves 10 inches or less in diameter .........

10 p.o.

4114 Machinery, logging cars, cranes , blocks and tackle, wire rope, but not ingluding wire rope to be used for guy ropes or in braking logs going down grade , and complete parts of all the foregoing, for use exclusively in the operation of logging, such operation to include the removal of the log from stump to skidway, log dump, or common or other carrier .....

12 p.o.

412a Machinery and apparatus, n.o.p,, viz.:- Gun and mould apparatus for making press rollers ; machines and apparatus for making electrotypes and stereotypes ; engraving machines and apparatus, including photoengraving apparatus , and other plate -making apparatus , used in the manufacture of printing plates of all kinds; machines and apparatus for graining metal plates; machines and apparatus for sensitizing, grinding or polishing metal plates ; machines and apparatus including cameras and camera equipmant , lens , prians, camera and

A442

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V- GANADA Part I (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

412a (cont'd )

printing lamps , screens, and vacuum frames for transferring by photographic processes, or direct , to plates or rolls for use in lithography, rotogravure and printing;

shading apparatus ; machines and apparatus for addressing

and/or wrapping newspapers , magazines , periodicals , pamphlets and catalogues ; machines and apparatus for

embossing or stamping or producing embossed or engraved effects, book-binding, looping, stitching, sewing,

gathering, inserting, bronzing , dusting , creasing ,

scoring, cutting , perforating , drilling , punching,

slitting, rewinding, glueing , pasting , gumming, waxing,

varnishing, carbon coating , patching, numbering , ruling,

jogging, sheet piling , tying , bundling, tube -making,

metal mounting , eye-letting , staying or stripping , re-

inforcing and box-covering ; complete parts , not to include

saws, knives and motive power ; all the foregoing when for

use exclusively by, and in their capacities as printers,

lithographers , book-binders , manufacturers of stereo-

types , eleotrotypes and printing plates or rolls , popor

converters, or by manufacturers of articles made from

paper or cardboard

Free

412b Flat bed cylinder printing presses , to print sheets of a size 25 by 38 inches or larger, and complete parts thereof; machines designed to fold or sheet-feed paper or cardboard, and complete parts thereor

10 p.a.

4120 Typecasting and typesetting machines and parts thereof for

use in printing offices

Free

412d Offset presses ; lithographic presses ; printing presses and

typemaking accessories therefor , n.o.p .; complete parts

of the foregoing , not to include saws , knives and motive

power .....

10 p...

413 Machinery and apparatus, of a class or kind not made in

Canada , and parts thereof , specially constructed for

preparing, manufacturing, testing or finishing yarns ,

oordage , and fabrics made from textile fibres or from

paper, imported for use exclusively by manufacturers and

scholastic or charitable institutions in such processes

only ...

5 p.o.

414 (1) Typewriters ..... (11) Complete parts of typewriters

20 p.c. 15 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A443

SCHEDULE V- CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Humber

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

4148 Dictating, transcribing and cylinder shaving machines and

complete parts thereof , including cylinders and unfinished

wax blanks

12 p.c.

4140 (1) Bookkeeping, calculating and invoicing machines and complete parts thereof, n.o.p. (11) Adding machines
Complete parts of adding machines .

10 .. 17 p.c. 15 p.o.

415 Electric vacuum cleaners and attachments therefor; hand

vacuum cleaners; and complete parts of all the foregoing,

ineluding sustion hose , n.o.p.

20 p...

415a Refrigerators , domestic or store , completely equipped or not :(1) Electric .....
(11 ) Other than electric

224 p... 22 p...

415b Washing machines , domestic , with or without motive power incorporated therein; complete parts of washing machines .. 234 p...

4150 Olothes wringers , domestic, and complete parts of metal thereof ...

224 p...

4154 Sewing machines , with or without motive power incorporated

therein; complete parts of sowing machines

15 p...

422 Street or road rollers and complete parts thereof

25 p ...

422a Concrete road-paving machines , self-propelling, end

loading type , with a capacity of 21 cubic feet of wet

concrete or more ; concrete and asphalt road finishing

machines ; form graders ; sub-graders ; combination ox-

cavating and transporting scraper units ; concrete mixers ,

transit type ; dump wagons or trailers , having a capacity

of 10 cubic yards or over , not self-propelled ; back-

filling machines and equipment , mounted on self-propelling

wheels or crawling traction, semi- or full-revolving boom

and scraper type ; steam or air driven pile hammers ar

extractors ; well-points ; truck turn-tables ; all the

forogoing of a class or kind not made in Canada , and

complete parts theroof

10 p.o.

425 Electric dental enginos

22 p ...

A444

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE T · CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
424

Description of Products
Fire engines and other fire extinguishing machines and chassis for same ; complete parts other than chassis parts

Rate of Duty 25 p.0.

424a Hand fire extinguishers, and sprinkler heads for automatic

sprinkler systems for fire protection .....

20 p.o.

425 Lawn mowers .....

25 p.o.

ex 425 427
ex 427

Lawn mowers designed for use with motive power, whether or

not containing the power unit

15 p.o.

All machinery composed wholly or in part of iron or steel ,

n.o.p.. and complete parts thereof

25 p.0.

Machinery and apparatus enumerated in Tariff Item 412a, when for use by manufacturers of articles made from
regenerated cellulose or cellulose acetate ; complete parts of such machinery and apparatus , not to include saws, knives, and motive power ........

5 p.o.

ex 427 Veneer-drying machines , and complete parts thereof

5 p.c.

ex 427

Wire stitchers and staplers , either hand or power type , but not including motive power ; complete parts of the foregoing

5 p.0.

427a All machinery composed wholly or in part of iron or steel , n.o.p. , of a class or kind not made in Canada ; complete parts of the foregoing .....
ex 427b Ball and roller bearings
4270 Machinery for dairying purposes , viz.:- Power churns, power milk coolers , power fillers and cappers , power ice oream mixers, power butter printers , power cream savers, power bottle sterilizers , power brine tanks , power milk bottle washers, power milk can washers ; ice-breaking machines, valveless or centrifugal milk pumps, sanitary milk and cream vats ; none of the foregoing machinery to include motive power .....

10 p.c. 174 p.o.
15 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A445

SCHEDULE V CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Humber
4274

Description of Products
Machines designed for making rigid composite box-ends of wood--consisting of a centre with separate mailing edges attached--from sarap or waste mill stock , and complete parts thereof, not to include motive power ...

Rate of Duty 25 p.e.

4270 Automatic machines for making and packaging cigars and cigarettes , not to include tobacco-preparing machines .... 10 p.o.

487h Motion picture projectors , are lamps for motion picture work, motion picture or theatrical spot lights , light effect machines , motion picture screens , portable motion picture projectors with or without sound equipment ; electric rectifiers or generators designed for use with motion picture projectors; complete parts of all the foregoing, not to include electric light bulbs , tubes , or exciter lamps

15 p.o.

4880 Engines or boilers and complete parts thereof, n.o.p. ..... 20 p.c.

4284 Magnetos and complete parts thereof , when imported by

manufacturers of internal combustion engines , for use

exclusively in the manufacture of such internal combustion

engines , in their own factories

10 p.o.

4288 Diesel and semi -diesel engines , and complete parts thereof,

n.o.p ........

20 p ...

4281 Air-cooled internal combustion engines of not greater than 1 h.p. rating, and complete parts thereof

20 p ...

4.29 Cutlery of iron or steel , plated or not : (b) Table knives and table forks ......

25 p.o.

(c) Penknives , jack-knives and pocket knives of all kinds . (d) Knives , n.o. p .

20 p.o. 20 p.c.

(e) Spoons

25 p.o.

......

(f) Soissors and shears n.o.p ......

20 p.o.

(8) Razors and complete parts thereof ; razor blades , n.o.p Safety razor blades

27 p... 20 p.c.

95347 O -49-pt. 5-

-29

A446

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V- CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian
Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

430 Nuts and bolts with or without threads, washers , rivets,

of iron or steel, coated or not, n.o.p .; nut and bolt
blanks, of iron or steel ........... per one hundred pounds and

50 ets. 17 p.8.

430a Hinges and butts, of iron or steel , coated or not , n.o.p.; hinge and butt blanks , of iron or steel .........
...... per one hundred pounds and 20 p.o

430b Sarews, of iron or steel, coated or not: (I) Wood sorews ....

20 p...

(II) Machine and other screws , n.o.p. ..... per one hundred pounds and

50 ots. 19 p.o.

431b Adzes, anvils , vises , cleavers , hatchets, saws , augers,

bits, drills , screw-drivers, planes , spokeshaves , chisels,

mallets, metal wedges , wrenches , sledges , hammers,

orowbars , cantdogs, and track tools , picks , mattooks,

and eyes or polls for the same ....

25 p...

45310 Machinists' or metal workers ' precision tools and measuring

instruments, viz.:- Calipers , micrometers , motal pro-

tractors and squares , bevels , verniers , gauges, gauge

blocks, parallels , buttons , mercury plumb bobs, dividers,

trammels, scribers, automatic center punches , hand speed

indicators , straight edges , key seat clamps and other

clamps and vises used by toolmakers for precision work,

precision tools and measuring instruments , n.o.p .; parts of all the foregoing, finished or not ....

10 p.o.

4314 Engineers ' , surveyors ' and draftsmen's precision instruments and apparatus , viz.:- Alidades ; altazimuth surveying instruments ; aneroid barometers , engineering, military and surveying ; angle prisms ; boards , military sketching; box sextants , olinometers; compasses ; cross staff heads; curves , adjustable , irregular, railroad and ship; curvimeters ; drafting instruments of all kinds, including fitted cases containing the same; dipping needles ; drafting machines ; heliographs ; integrators; levels , tripod and hand or pooket types ; levelling rods; liners , section; meters , portable for hydraulic engineering; pantographs ; planimeters ; protractors ; parallel

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A447

SCHEDULE V CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian
Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

4314 (cont'd )

rulers; parallel ruling attachments ; poles , ranging ; pedometers and paceometers ; plane tables , military and topographio; scales , flat and triangular ; slide rules ; splines; straight edges , steel and wooden ; taoheometers; tallying machines , pooket ; tee squares , steel and wooden; telemeters; theodolites ; transits , tripod and hand or pocket types ; triangles of all types ; tripods for use with any of the foregoing instruments; parts of all the foregoing, finished or not ......

10 p.o.

4310 Measuring rules and tapes of all kinds

221 p.c.

431f Filos and rasps

25 p ...

4318 Fixed or stationary motore , of a size or capacity not made in Canada , for hydraulic engineering; gauges , indicators and rocorders for water or other liquid levels , volume or flow, of a class or kind not made in Canada ...

20 p ...

432 Hollow-ware , of iron or steel , coated or not , n.o.p. ..

20 p...

432a Kitchen and dairy hollow-ware of iron or stool , coated with tin, including cans for shipping milk or cream, not painted, japanned or decorated
432b Hollow-ware , of iron or steel , coated with vitreous enamel .....

20 p... 28 p...

4320 Containers manufactured from tinplate , when importe by manufacturers of food products for use exclusively in the hormetioal sealing of food products , in their own factories , under regulations prescribed by the Minister .. 2) p...

4324 Manufactures of tinplate , painted , Japanned , decorated or not, and manufacturos of tin, n.o.p. .....

20 p.o.



453 434 OX 434

Baths , bathtubs , basins , closets , lavatories , urinals , sinks , and laundry tubs of iron or steal , coated or not .. 20 p ...

Locomotives for use on railways , and chassis , tops , wheels

and bodies for the same , n.o.p. .......

25 p.o.

Locomotives and motor cars for railways, for use exclusively in mining, metallurgical or sawmill operations, .o.p. , and chassis, tops , whools and bodies for the same , n.o.p. 20 p.0.

A448

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Bate of Duty

434a Motor rail cars or units for use on railways , and chassis for same; complete parts of the foregoing

20 p.o.

Steel wheels for use on railway rolling stock, viz.:(1 ) Pressed steel .....
(11) N.o.p.

271 p.o. 274 p.o.

435 (a) Locomotives and motor gars for railways , of a class or

kind not made in Canada, and complete parts thereof, for

use exclusively in mining , metallurgical or sawmill

operations .......

Free

(b) Diesel switching locomotives of a class or kind not made in Canada

10 p...

438 Railway cars and parts thereof, n.o.p.

224 p.c.

458 Automobiles and motor vehicles of all kinds , n.o.p.¡ electric trackless trolley buses ; chassis for all the foregoing

174 p...

Provided , that machines or other articles mounted on the foregoing or attached thereto for purposes other than loading or unloading the vehicle shall be valued separately and duty assessed under the tariff items regularly applicable thereto .

438 Parts, n.o.p. , for automobiles , motor vehicles , electric

trackless trolley buses or chassis emmerated in tariff

items 438a and 424, not to include wireless receiving

sets, die castings of zino , electric storage batteries,

parts of wood , tires and tubes or parts of which the

samponent material of chief value is rubber:-

(1) Brake linings , and clutch facings whether or not

including metallic wires or threads : -

(a) When made from crude asbestos of British Commonwealt

origin .......

25 p ...

(b) When made from crude asbestos , n.o.p.

25 p...

(2 ) Automobile and motor vehicle engines , stripped, n.o.p. , and complete parts theroof, n.o.p. .......

25 p.c.

(3 ) Parts, n.o.p. , not electro-plated, whether finished

or not ...............

30 p.o.

Provided, that parts in chief value of iron or steel
which were classified for duty purposes under tariff
items 427 or 446a, as of January 1, 1936 , shall be dutiable at ......

25 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A449

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

438g Motor oyoles or side oars therefor, and complete parts of

the foregoing

17 p.o.

4381 Piston castings of any material , in the rough or semifinished .....

25 p.o.

439 Bicycles and tricycles , n.o.p.

25 p.o.

439a Articles , of iron or steel , wholly or in part of nickel or electro-plated , when imported by manufacturers of bicycles or tricyoles for use exclusively in the manufacture of bicycles or tricyoles , in their own factories, under regulations prescribed by the Minister.. 224 p.o.

439b Cars , n.o.p. , wheelbarrows, trucks , road or railway scrapers and hand carts

22 p.o.

4390 Farm wagons, farm sleds , logging wagons , logging sleds , and complete parts thereof

15 p.o.

4391 Children's carriages , sleds and other vehicles ; complete parts of all the foregoing

224 p.o.

ex 440g Diesel and semi -diesel engines , of a class or kind not

made in Canada , and complete parts thereof , for use

exclusively in the construction or equipment of ships or

Vessels

Free

440J Trawls, trawling spoons , fly hooks , sinkers , swivels , sportsmen's fishing reels , bait , hooks , and fishing tackle , n.o.p.
4401 (1 ) Aircraft , not including engines, under regulations prescribed by the Minister ......
( 11 ) Complete parts of aircraft , not including parts of aircraft engines ......

20 p.c. 15 p.c. 15 p.o.

A450

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE Y - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Itan
Number
440m

Description of Products
(1) Unfinished parts of aircraft , n.o.p. , not including parts of aircraft engines .......

Rate of Duty 15 p.o.

4400 Engines, when imported for use only in the equipment of aircraft

15 p...

4400 ( 1 ) Carburettors, magnetos , distributors , coils and spark

plugs and complete parts thereof; all the foregoing when

of a class or kind not made in Canada when imported for

use in aircraft engines

Free

(11 ) Parts, finished or not , n.o.p. , for aircraft engines. 5 p.o.

440p Direct or inertia starters with or without related operating gear and parts thereof ; generators ; voltage control

boxes; batteries; de- icing and anti-icing equipment and

parts thereof, not including parts of rubber ; vacuum

pumps with related operating gear and parts thereof;

landing and navigation lights ; propellers ; hydraulic

Jacks and pumps and parts thereof ; aircraft wheels; aircraft brakes with related operating gear and parts

thereof; aircraft tires and tubes ; oil coolers ; fuel

pressure warning devices ; exhaust gas analysers ; pressure

fire extinguishers ; primer pumps ; instruments excepting

fuel contents gauges ; bolts , nuts , cocks, turnbuckles,

clevis and pins, swaged wires and tie rods ; bars , tubes,

extrusions and forgings of aluminum, aluminum alloys and

magnesium alloys ; steel tubing; all the foregoing when of

types and sizes not made in Canada and imported for use

exclusively in the manufacture or for spares, overhaul or repair of the goods enumerated in Tariff Item 4401 under

such regulations as the Minister may prescribe

Free

441 Guns, rifles, including air guns and air rifles not being

toys; muskets, cannons , pistols , revolvers, or other

firearms, n.o.p.; cartridge cases , cartridges , primers,

percussion caps , wads or other ammunition , n.o.p.;

bayonets, swords , fencing foils and masks ; gun or pistol

covers or cases, game bags , loading tools and cartridge

belts of any material

22 p.o.

4410 Guns and rifles of a class or kind not made in Canada .... 10 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A451

SCHEDULE V CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
442

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Articles and materials which enter into the cost of manu-

facture of the goods enumerated in tariff items 409 ,

409a, 409b, 409c , 409d , 409e , 409f, 409g , 409h , 4091 , 4091 , 409k , 4091 , 409m , 409n , 4090 and 439c , when

imported for use in the manufacture of the goods enumerated in the aforesaid tariff items . or in the manufacture

of parts therefor , under regulations prescribed by the

Minister ....

Free

443 Apparatus designed for cooking or for heating buildings : -

(1) For coal or wood

22 p.o.

( 2 ) For gas ......

22 p.c.

( 3 ) For electricity ...

22 p.o.

(4) For oil ......

22 p.c.

(5 ) N.o.p. ...

221 p...

444a Gas , coal oil or other lighting fixtures and appliances ,

n.o.p. , including tips , burners , collars and galleries ;

gas mantles and incandescent gas burners ; complete parts

of all the foregoing

22 p.o.

444b Lamp shades, n.o.p. , and shade holders

221 p.o.

445 Electric light fixtures and appliances , n.o.p. , and complete parts thereof .....

224 p.o.

4458 Electric head , side and tail lights , n.o.p .; electrio torches or flashlights and complete parts therefor .....

224 p.o.

445b Electric arc lamps and incandescent electric light lamps , n.o.p.

25 p.o.

A452

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

4450 (1) Electric telegraph apparatus and complete parts thereof ....

(11 ) Electric telephone apparatus and complete parts thereof .......

Rate of Duty 20 p.o. p.o.

4454 Electric wireless or radio apparatus and complete parts thereof, n.o.p. .......

20 p.o.

4450 Electric and galvanic batteries, n.o.p. , and complete parts thereof, including separator walls of wood , out to size or not .....
4451 Electric dynamos or generators and transformers, and complete parts thereof, a.o.p. ......................

22 p... 22 D.O.

4458 Electric motors , and complete parts thereof, n.o.p.

28 p.o.

445h Electric insulators of all kinds , n.o.p. , and complete parts thereof

22 p...

4451 Electric sad irons and complete parts thereof

224 p.o.

445J Electric dry shaving machines for use in removing human

hair, and parts thereof ......

Free

445k Electric apparatus and complete parts thereof, n.o.p. .... 22 p...

4451 Electric storage batteries , composed of plates measuring not less than eleven inches by fourteen inobes and not less than three-quarters inch in thickness ; complete parts thereof .......

no p...

445m Flame proof electric switch gear, for use underground in coal mines, and complete parts thereof ...................

20 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A453

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Daty

445n Electrical instruments and apparatus of precision of a class or kind not made in Canada , viz.:- Meters or
gauges for indicating and/or recording altitude , amperes , comparisons , capacity, density, depth , distance , electrolysis , flux, force , frequency, humidity, inductance liquid levels, ohms , operation , power factor, pressure, space , speed , stress , synchronism , temperature , time , volta, volume , watts; complete parts thereof

15 p.o.

4450 Acid-free capacitor tissue and paper , plain and gummed ; metal cans, extruded , plated or unplated ; automatic record changers ; parts for pickups ; bias cells and holders ; frames , yokes , brackets , pole- pieces , gaskets and field covers, separate or assembled for use in speakers with mounting diameter not exceeding 6-3/8 inches ; cones , spiders, spider suspensions , voice coils and voice coil dust covers , separate or assembled ; magnetic structures and parts thereof for permanent magnet speakers ; glass dial crystals and scales and metal dials or scales made by the silk-screen process ; metal cabinet escutcheons without crystals , plain or finished ; high frequency circuit switches and essential components thereof ; high frequency iron cores with or without inserts moulded therein ; motors and gears for automatic tuning ; radio frequency ceramios ; raw low loss mica ; sheets and punchings of low loss mica ; tube shields and parts thereof; vibrators ; vulcanized fibre in sheets , rods , strips or tubing; high frequency coil forms and tubing having an outside diameter not exceeding one inch ; for use in the manufacture or the repair of the goods enumerated in tariff items 445d , 597a , and other apparatus using radio tubes, or for use in the manufacture of parts therefor ... Free

445p Ceramic parts ; copper alloys for welding ; getters and getter assemblies ; glass parts ; metal bulbs and shells and metal headers ; mica parts ; mica assemblies ; wire anubbers, clips and straps ; wire of molybdenum and molybdenum alloy ; nickel and nickel alloy tubing , wire , ribbon , soreen and strip , coated or not , carbonized or not ; metal cathodes ; nickel , nickel alloy and nickel plated parts , coated or not , carbonized or not ; tungsten and tungsten alloy and zinc wire ; leads , spuds and welds; iron parts designed for sealing to glass ; hooks and supports; base pins ; wire and strip of silver copper, chrome copper , chrome iron or plated iron ; top cap assemblies ; graphite anodes ; heaters and filaments ; all the foregoing when imported by manufacturers of radio tubes and parts therefor, for use exclusively in the manufacture of such articles , in their own factories ..... Free

A454

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

446 Electric steam turbo generator sets, 700 h.p. and greater,

of a class or kind not made in Canada, and complete

parts thereof

20 p.o.

446a Manufactures , articles or wares , of iron or steel or of
which iron or steel or both are the component materials of chief value , n.o.p. ......

25 p.o.

ex 446a

Locomotive beds or frames of steel , cast in one piece ; tender frames of steel , oast in one piece ; cast steel cradles for the rear ends of locomotive frames ; cast steel truck frames and bolsters for engines , tenders and passenger coaches ; platform castings for passenger coaches ; all the foregoing, whether in the rough or semimanufactured, for use on railway rolling stock ........

5 p.o.

ex 446a Tools of iron or steel , for use in machines , n.o.p. , of a class or kind not made in Canada

10 p.o.

ex 446a Welding rods or welding wires of rust , acid or heat resisting steel , whether or not flux-coated

15 p.o.

ex 446a

Metal shells and hinges, for use in manufacturing
jewellery boxes and spectacle cases , not further finished than shaped . ................

12 p.o.

446b Steel bicycle rims , not enamelled nor plated

27 p.c.

4460 Golf shafts of seamless steel , coated or not , but not chromium plated ...

15 p.o.

446d Bottles or cylinders of steel for use as high-pressure containers for gas ......

20 p...

4461 Cellulose acetate film reinforced with wire mesh ... ex 446g Electric welding apparatus , not including motors

22 p.c. 20 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A455

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

4461 Stampings of metal , or assemblies thereof , for use in the manufacture of bathtubs ........

Rate of Duty 10 p.0.

447 Water pumps, hand or power, for domestic purposes only

447a Sand east rolls and chilled cast iron rolls, for use exclusively in rolling iron or steel , or in manufacturing paper ......

Free

ex 450 Roller skates and parts thereof

15 p.e.

451 Buckles, clasps , eyelets , hooks and eyes, dome, snap or other fasteners of iron, steel , brass or other metal, coated or not , a.o.p. ( not being jewellery)

25 p.c.

451a (1) Spring-beard needles and lateh needles ...... and, per thousand
(11 ) Needles , of any material or kind , n.o.p.

25 p.0. $1.50
25 p.6.

451b Pins manufactured from wire of any metal : (1 ) Specially designed for marking systems

( 11 ) N.o.p. .....

and, per pound

5 p.o.
25 p.o. 10 ets.

4510 Slide , hookless , or zipper fasteners

30 p..

454 Frames not more than ten inches in width, olasps and fasteners (not to include slide or hookless fasteners) , when imported by manufacturers of purses, chatelaine bags or reticules for use exclusively in the manufacture of purses, chatelaine bags or reticules , in their own factories, under regulations prescribed by the Minister;
parts of the foregoing

461 Safes, including doors; doors and door frames for vaults ; soales, balances , weighing beams and strength-testing machines of all kinds , n.o.p. .....

20 p...

A456

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
4610

Description of Products
Automatic scales or weighing machines , of a class or kind not made in Canada , and complete parts of the foregoing, for use in Canadian manufactures ...

Rate of Duty Free

462 (1 ) Philosophical, photographic , mathematical and optical instruments, n.o.p.; speedometers , ayolometers and pedometers, n.o.p.; complete parts of all the foregoing · 15 p..

(11 ) Cameras and complete parts thereof, n.o.p.:(a) of a class or kind not made in Canada .....

17 p.0.

(b) N.o.p.

20 p.0.

4626 Cinematograph and motion picture cameras , 35 m . , for use by professional motion picture producers having studios in Canada equipped for motion picture production ; parts of the foregoing ....

9 p.o.

465 Signs of any material other than paper, framed or not ; letters and numerals of any material other than paper ..... 20 p.o.

469 Machine card clothing

20 p.e.

4714 Pressed steel belt pulleys for power transmission, and finished or unfinished parts thereof, including interchangeable bushings

20 p...

475b Matrices for stereotypes , electrotypes and celluloids described in tariff item 475a ............per square inch fot.

476 Surgical and dental instruments of any material ; surgical

needles; X-ray apparatus ; microscopes valued at not less

than 50 dollars each, retail ; complete parts of all the

foregoing

Free

488 Nitrate and acetate of lead , not ground ; platinum and black oxide of copper, for use in the manufacture of ohlorates and colours .....

10 p...

494 Manufactures of corkwood or cork bark, n.o.p. , including strips, shives, shells and washers of oork

15 p.0.

495 Corks, manufactured from corkwood , over three-fourths of an inch in diameter measured at the larger end .... per pound 4ots.

498 Cane, reed or rattan, not further manufactured than

split, n.o.p. .......

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30 , 1947

A457

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
500

Description of Products
Logs and round unmanufactured timber , handle , heading , stave and shingle bolts , n.o.p .; firewood , hop poles , fence posts and railway ties

Rate of Duty Free

502 Mexican saddle trees and stirrups of wood , treenails ;

hub, last , wagon , oar and gun blocks , and all like blocks

or sticks , rough hewn , or sawn only ; felloes of hickory

or oak , not further manufactured than rough sawn or bent

to shape ; staves of oak , sawn , split or cut , not further

manufactured than listed or jointed ; shingles of wood ;

spokes of hickory or oak , not further manufactured than

rough turned , and not tenoned , mitred or sized , and scale

board for cheese ....

Free

503 Planks , boards , clapboards , laths , plain pickets and other

timber or lumber of wood , not further manufactured than

sawn or split , whether creosoted , vulcanized , or treated

by any other preserving process , or not

Free

504 Planks , boards and other lumber of wood , sawn , split or

cut , and dressed on one side only , but not further manu-

factured

Free

505 Planks , boards , deals and other lumber of wood , not further manufactured than planed , dressed , jointed , tongued or grooved , n.o.p.

10 p.c.

505a Hardwood flooring , tongued and/or grooved , or jointed , viz.:- beech , birch , maple and oak

12 p.c.

506 Manufactures of wood , n.o.p.

20 p.c.

ex 506 Shingles of cedar , creosoted , vulcanized or otherwise

processed or treated ......

Free

506b Wooden doors of a height and width not less than 6 feet and 2 feet , respectively

22 p.c.

507 Single-ply , sliced or rotary-cut veneers of rosewood , mahogany or Spanish cedar , not over five - sixteenths of an inch in thickness , not taped nor jointed ......

10 p.c.

A458

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
5078

Description of Products
Single-ply , sliced or rotary-cut vencers of wood , n.o.p., not over five-sixteenths of an inch in thickness , not taped nor jointed .....

Rate of Duty 15 p.c.

507c Plywood made of two or more layers of veneer or lumber of
wood , glued or cemented together , but not further manufactured .....

20 p.c.

507e Plywood made or two or more layers of wood glued or
camented together and faced with metal on one or both sides .....

20 p.o.

509 Vulcanized fibre , martavert , indurated fibre , and like material , and manufactures of , n.o.p. ......

17 p.o.

ex 511 UI 3620 et al

Skis and fittings therefor; aki poles ....

22p.c.

511a Cricket bats , balls , gloves and leg guards ..

30 p..

511b Fishing rods .......

20 p.c.

512 Picture frames and photograph frames , of any material .... 20 p.c.

518 (1) Bagatelle and other game tables or boards
(11 ) Billiard tables , with or without pockets , cues , balls , cue-racks and cue-tips

22 p.c. 30 p.o.

519 House , office , cabinet or store furniture of wood , iron or other material , and parts thereof , not to include forgings , castings , and stampings of metal , in the rough:(1) Substantially of wood
(11 ) Other than of wood

27 p.c. 25 p.c.

ex 520 Raw cotton and cotton linters not further manufactured

than giuned ; waste wholly of cottor. unfit for use with-

out further manufacture

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A459

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
522

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Rovings , yarns and warps wholly of cotton , not more advanced than singles , n.o.p. .......
and , per pound

15 p.c. 3 cts .

5226 Yarns , wholly of cotton , coarser than number forty but

excecding number twenty , not more advanced than singles ,

when imported by manufacturers for use exclusively in

their own factories in the manufacturing of cotton sewing

thread and crochet , knitting , darning and embroidery cottons ................

15 p.c.

5220 (1 ) Rovings , yarns and warps wholly of cotton , including

threads , cords and twines generally used for sewing ,

stitching , packaging and other purposes , n.o.p .; cotton

yarns , wholly or partially covered with metallic strip ,

generally known as tinsel thread ......

17 p.c.

and , per pound

3 cts .

( 11 ) Cotton yarns , wholly covered with a double layer of metallic strip in single strand only , when imported by manufacturers for use exclusively in the manufacture of electrical conductors , in their own factories

10 p.c.

( 111 ) Sewing thread , wholly of cotton , on spools , not to exceed 250 yards on one spool ...

20 p.c.

5224 Yarns and warps wholly of cotton , mercerized , number forty and finer , imported under regulations prescribed by the Minister , for sale to manufacturers , to be further manufactured in their own factories

20 p.c.

5220 Cotton sowing thread yarn and crochet , knitting , darning and embroidery yarn , in hanks , when imported by manufacturers for use exclusively in their own factories in the manufacturing or spooling of cotton sewing thread and crochet , knitting , darning and embroidery cottons

10 p.o.

520 Yarns and warps wholly of cotton , number forty and finer , when imported by manufacturers of mercerized cotton yarns , for use exclusively in the manufacture of mercerized cotton yarns , in their own factories

15 p.c.

523 Woven fabrics , wholly of cotton , not bleached , mercerized

nor coloured , n.o.p. .......

15 p.c.

and, per pound

3 cts .

A460

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SOHEDULE - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
ex 523

Description of Products Seamless cotton bags ...

Rate of Duty 22 p.o.

523a Woven fabrics , wholly of cotton , bleached or mercerized ,

not coloured , n.o.p. ...................

17 p.o.

and , per pound

3 cts .

523b Woven fabrics , wholly of cotton , printed , dyed or

coloured , n.o.p.:-

(1) Valued at more than 80 cents per pound .....

17 p.o.

and, per pound

3 cts .

(11 ) Valued at 50 cents or more but not more than 80 cents per pound ....... and , per pound

22 p.o. 3 cts.

(111 ) Valued at less than 50 cents per pound ......

25 p.c.

and , per pound 3 cts.

(iv) Woven fabrics , wholly of cotton , commonly known as denims , when imported by manufacturers for use in their own factories in the manufacture of garments and, per pound

17 p.c. 3 cts.

5230 Woven fabrics wholly of cotton, composed of yarns of counts of 100 or more , including all such fabrics in
which the average of the count of warp and weft yarns is 100 or more

27 p.o.

5230 Woven fabrics wholly of cotton with cut pile , n.o.p. ..... 25 p.c. and , per pound 3 cts.
5231 Woven fabrics of cotton , not coloured , when imported by manufacturers of typewriter ribbon , for use exclusively in the manufacture of such ribbon in their own factories . 12 p.c.

5231 Shadow cretonnes , wholly of cotton , with printed warp and

plain weft ....

......

25 p.o.

and , per pound 3 cts.

523k Gabardines , wholly of cotton , with not less than 280 ends

and picks of ply yarn per square inch

25 p.c.

and , per pound 3 cts.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A461

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I - (Cont'd )

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

5231 Woven fabrios , wholly of cotton, composed of yarns of counts of not less than 80 and not more than 99, in-
cluding all such fabrios in which the average count of the warp and weft yarns is not less than 80 and not more
than 99 ..... and, per pound

80 p.o. Sets.

5248 Fabrics with out weft pile , wholly of cotton or of cotton and synthetic textile fibres or filaments ... and, per pound

p.o. stots.

525 Woven fabric, wholly of cotton, specially treated and glazed, when imported by rubber manufacturers for use, in their own factories , exclusively as a detachable protective covering for uncured rubber sheeting
528 White cotton bobbinet , plain, in the web

274 p.4. 12p.c.

529 Embroideries , lace , nots , nettings , bobbinet , n.o.p. ,

fringes and tassels , wholly of cotton ......

80 p...

and, per pound 3 ots.

529e Lace and embroideries , wholly of cotton, not coloured, when imported for use exclusively by manufacturers in the manufacture of clothing, in their own factories ...........

10 p.c.

530 Lace and embroideries , wholly of cotton, coloured, when imported for use exclusively by manufacturers in the manufacture of clothing, in their own factories .........

15 p..

532 (1) Clothing, wearing apparel and articles made from woven fabrics , and all textile manufactures , wholly or partially manufactured , composed wholly of cotton, n.o.p. .. 25 p ...

(11) Curtains , wholly or partially anufactured , composed wholly of cotton , n.o.p. ......

27 p.o.

( iii ) Fabrics wholly of cotton, conted or impregnated , n.c.p 27 p...

(1 ) Cotton bags , not seamless

224 p.o.

532a Handkerchiefs , wholly of cotton

271 p...

532b Woven fabric, wholly of cotton, for covering books .................... 27 p.c.

953470-49--pt. 5- -30

A462

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V- CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
535

Description of Products
Grasses, seaweed , mosses and vegetable fibres other than cotton, not coloured, nor further manufactured than dried, aleaned , cut to size , ground and sifted ; oakum of flax, hemp, or jute ; coir and coir yarn ...

Rate of Duty Free

535a Grasses, seaweed , mosses and vegetable fibres other than cotton, n.o.p .; bagasse of sugar cane, whether or not dried, cleaned , out to size , ground or sifted

537 Rovings, yarns and warps wholly or in part of vegetable fibres, not more advanced than singles , n.o.p. , not to contain silk, synthetic textile fibres or filaments, nor wool .......

ex 537 ex 537a
537a

Twine for baling farm produce
Rovings, yarns and warps wholly or in part of vegetable fibres , including yarn twist , cords and twines generally used for packaging and other purposes , n.o.p. , not to contain silk , synthetic textile fibres or filaments , nor wool

10 p.e. 174 p.c. Free
20 p ...

537b Linen thread, for hand or machine sewing ...

17 p...

5374 Rovings , yarns and warps wholly of jute , not more advanced

than singles, n.o.p. , not to contain silk, synthetic

textile fibres or filaments , nor wool

171 p...

537e Rovings , yarns and warps wholly of jute , including yarn twist , cords and twines generally used for packaging and other purposes , n.o.p.

25 p...

538 Binder twine or twine for harvest binders

Free

539 Cordage , exceeding one inch in circumference , wholly of vegetable fibres , n.o.p.

224 p.6.

540 (a) Woven fabrics , in the web , wholly of flax or hemp , not to include towelling and glass cloth of crash or huok, with or without lettering or monograms woven in, nor table cloths and napkins of crash with coloured borders . 22 p.0. and, per pound S ots.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A463

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

540 (cont'd)

(b) Articles wholly of flax or hemp , such as sheets , pillow cases , table cloths and napkins , towels and handkerchiefs , but not to include towels or glass cloths of crash or huck , with or without lettering or monograms woven in , nor table cloths and napkins of crash with coloured borders
and, per pound

20 p.o. 3 ots.

(c) Towelling and glass cloth of crash or huck , with or without lettering or monograms woven in , table cloths and napkins of crash with coloured borders , in the web , wholly of flax or hemp ; woven fabrics , in the web, composed in part of flax or hemp , not containing silk , synthetic textile fibres or filaments , nor wool ...... and, per pound
(d) Towels and glass cloths of crash or huck , with or without lettering or monograms woven in , table cloths and napkins of crash with coloured borders , wholly or in part of flax or hemp, not containing silk , synthetic textile fibres or filaments , nor wool and , per pound

20 p.c. sots.
20 p.c. 3 ets.

541a Woven fabrics , wholly of jute , n.o.p.

22 p...

5418 Canvas in the web , wholly of flax or hemp , or both , plain

woven , not coloured , not further manufactured than in-

pregnated with weather-proofing or preservative materials,

suitable for manufacturing into tents , awnings , tar-

paulins , hatch covers and similar articles , weighing not

less than 18 ounces and not more than 26 ounces per

square yard

25 p.c.



and, per pound

cts.

542 Woven fabrics , wholly or in part of vegetable fibres , and all such fabrics with cut pile , n.o.p. , not containing silk , synthetic textile fibres or filaments , nor wool ... 20 p...

542a Woven or braided fabrics not exceeding twelve inches in width , wholly or in part of vegetable fibres , n.o.p. , not to contain silk , synthetic textile fibres or filaments, nor wool

27p.c.

542b Linen fire-hose , lined or unlined ....

30 p.o.

A464

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

545 Lace and embroideries , wholly of flax, or of hemp, or of flax, hemp and cotton, not coloured, imported by manufacturers for use exclusively in the manufacture of clothing in their own factories

Rate of Duty 12 p...

546 Articles made from fabrios , finished or unfinished , and all textile manufacture: wholly of jute , n.o.p .;
fabrios wholly of jute , coated or impregnated, and jute fabric backed with paper ....

221 p ...

547 Bags or sacks of hemp , linen or jute

17 p.o.

548 Clothing, wearing apparel and articles , made from woven

fabrios, and all textile manufactures , wholly or

partially manufactured , composed wholly or in part of vegetable fibres but not containing wool , n.o.p.; fabrics

coated or impregnated, composed wholly or in part of vegetable fibres but not containing silk, synthetic textile fibres or filaments , nor wool, n.o.p. ...

25 p.o.

548a Woven dress linens containing not more than 15 per cent .

by weight of cotton yarns for decorative effect .....

25 p.0.

and, per pound 3 ots.

549 (1) Wool not further prepared than combed , n.o.p. .. .................. .

.........

..... per pound 10 ots.

(11) Wool, in the grease , not including wool of the sheep

of the type commonly known as karabul, when imported by

carpet manufacturers for use exclusively in the mamu-.

facture of carpets , in their own factories

Free

(111) Hair of the camel, alpaca, goat or other like animal . Free

549b Hair, ourled or dyed , n.o.p.

15 p.c.

5490 Haircloth, composed of horse hair in combination with any vegetable fibre

271 p.o.

ex 549d Nots made from human hair

15 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A465

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I ( Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
5500

Description of Products
Garnetted wool waste in the white when imported by manufacturers of woollen goods for use exclusively in their own factories .................

Rate of Duty Free

551 Yarns , composed wholly or in part of wool or hair but not

containing silk , or synthetic textile fibres or fila-

ments, n.o.p. ............ ..

17 p.c.

and, per pound 20 cts .

5518 Yarns and warps composed wholly of wool or in part of wool

or hair , imported by manufacturers for use exclusively in

their own factories , n.o.p.

15 p.c. and , per pound 15 cts .

5510 Yarns and warps composed wholly of hair or of hair and any

vegetable fibre , imported by manufacturers for use in

their own factories .......

17 p.c.

and , per pound 15 cts .

5518 Yarns and warps , spun on the worsted system, composed

wholly of wool or in part of wool or hair , imported by manufacturers for use in their own factories in the

manufacture of woven fabrics in chief part by weight of

wool or hair and not exceeding six ounces to the square

yard , when in the gray or unfinished condition , under such regulations as may be prescribed by the Minister
and , per pound

15 p.c. 15 cts .

552 Felt , pressed , of all kinds , in the web , not consisting

of or in combination with any woven , knitted or other

fabric or material

......

20 p.o.

and , per pound 17 cts.

ex 552

Felt , splint , for use in making molded splints for medicinal purposes ............

10 p.c.

ex 553

Household blankets , wholly of cotton , not to include horse blankets , automobile or steamer rugs , or similar articles
and , per pound

17 p.c. 5 cts .

A466

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE Y · CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Ite
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

ex 555

Blankets, wholly or in part of wool or hair, not to inelude horse blankets, automobile or steamer rugs , or similar articles
and , per pound

85 p ... 20 cts.

555a Stereotypers ' and typecasters ' blankets or blanketing and press blankets or blanketing used for printing presses, of a class or kind not made in Canada .....

5 p.c.

554 Woven fabrics , composed wholly or in chief part by weight

of yarns of wool or hair, not exceeding in weight six

ounces to the square yard , n.o.p. , when imported in the

gray or unfinished condition, for the purpose of being

dyed or finished in Canada

20 p..

and , per pound 171 ots.

554a Woven fabrics, consisting of cotton warps with wefts of
lustre wool , mohair or alpaca , generally known as lustres or Italian linings , n.o.p.

20 p ...

554b Woven fabrics composed wholly or in part of yarns of wool or hair, n.o.p. .......
and , per pound

27 p... 30 ets .

ex 554b Woven fabrics , composed wholly or in chief part by weight of yarns of wool or hair, not exceeding in weight eight ounces to the square yard , a ... p . ......
and , per pound

271 p.o. 30 cts .

Provided , however, that the sum of the specific and ad valorem duties shall not be in excess of ........ per pound $1.00

5646 Woven fabrics , composed wholly or in chief part by weight of yarns of wool or hair , not exceeding in weight four ounces to the square yard , when imported in the gray or unfinished condition, for the purpose of being dyed or finished in Canada .....
and , per pound

20 p.c. 15 cts .

ex 554e Filter press cloth of wool or hair ( except human hair ) . 15 p.c.

ex 549d

and , per pound 30 cts .

554f Woven fabrics , composed wholly or in part of yarns of wool

or hair , commonly known as billiard cloth ..

20 p.c.

and , per pound 25 cts .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -- OCT. 30, 1947

A467

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
555

Description of Products
Clothing, wearing apparel and articles made from woven fabrics , and all textile manufactures , wholly or partially manufactured , composed wholly or in part of wool or similar animal fibres , but of which the component of chief value is not silk nor synthetic textile fibres or filaments , n.o.p .; fabrics , coated or inpregnated, composed wholly or in part of yarns of wool or hair, but not containing silk nor synthetic textile fibres or filaments , n.o.p. .........

Rate of Duty 271p.c.

556a Melton cloth , imported by manufacturers of tennis balls

for use in the manufacture of tennis balls , in their own

factories .....

27 p.6. and, per pound 20 ets.

5560 Slipper cloth , woven , napped on one or both sides , wholly or in part of wool , not to contain silk or synthetic textile fibres or filaments , weighing not less than 22 ounges per square yard , when imported by manufacturers of indoor footwear , to be used exclusively in the manufacture of such articles in their own factories

27 p...

858b Rovings , yarns and warps wholly of synthetic textile

fibres or filaments , not more advanced than singles , not

coloured, with not more than seven turns to the inch ,

under such regulations as the Minister my prescribe : -

(a) Produced from ellulose acetate .......

but not less than ..

.per pound

25 p.e. 24 cts.

b) N.o.p. ... but not less than

25 p.o. .per pound 24 ots.

5564 (1) Rovings , yaras and warps , wholly or in part of silk, n.o.p., ineluding threads , cords or twist for sewing, embroidering or other purposes ........
(11) Silk yarns wholly or partially covered with metallic strip, one pund of which shall contain not less than 10,000 yards .....

22 p.o. 22h p.o.

A468

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V- CANADA Part I · ( Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

5584 Rovings , yarns and warps wholly or in part of synthetic textile fibres or filamente , n.o.p. , including threads , cords or twist for sewing , embroidering or other purposes , not to contain silk ; yarns of synthetic textile fibres or filaments wholly or partially covered with metallic strip , one pound of which shall contain not less than 10,000 yards ; under such regulations as the Minister may prescribe:(a) Produced wholly from cellulose acetate

25 p.e.

Provided that , in no case , shall the duty be less

than .....

.....per pound

24 cts.

(b) N.o.p. .....

25 p.c.

Provided that , in no case , shall the duty be less

than .......

....... per pound

24 ots.

558 Yarns and warps , wholly of thrown silk in the gum, rovings , yarns and warps , wholly of spun silk , not coloured , imported by manufacturers for use exclusively in their own factories for knitting underwear , for weaving, or for the manufacture of silk thread

7p.c.

558f Rovings , yarns and warps wholly of spun synthetic textile

fibres or filaments , not coloured , imported by manu-

facturers for use exclusively in the manufacture of cut-

pile fabrics , in their own factories ........................................

but not less than

........ per pound

25 p.c. 24 ots.

560 Woven fabrics wholly or in chief part by weight of silk in the gum , not degummed nor bleached , not less than twenty inches in width , weighing not more than seven pounds for each hundred yards thereof , imported for the purpose of being degummed , dyed and finished in Canada · 25 p.e.

560a Woven fabrics wholly or in part of silk , not to contain wool , not including fabrics in chief part by weight of synthetic textile fibres or filaments , n.o.p. ........................ and, per lineal yard
560b Woven fabrics , wholly of silk, twenty-six inches in width , or less , n.o.p. ......

30 p.c. 7ets.
25 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A469

SCHEDULE Y CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

5600 Woven fabrics with out pile , whether or not coated or inpregnated, wholly or in part of silk or synthetic textile fibres or filaments , but not containing wool , a.o.p.

25 p...

661 Woven fabrics wholly or in part of synthetic textile

fibres or filaments , not to contain wool , not including

fabrics in chief part by weight of silk, n.o.p. ................

271 p.c.

and, per pound 40 cta.

562 Woven fabrics not exceeding twelve inches in width generally known as "ribbons" , whether with cut pile or not , wholly or in part of silk but not containing wool .. 23 p.c.

562 Woven fabrics not exceeding twelve inches in width , generally known as "ribbons" , whether with out pile or not , wholly or in part of synthetic textile fibres or filaments, but not containing silk nor wool ......

25 p.o.

564 Woven fabrics , of a kind not made in Canada , wholly , or

in chief part , by weight , of silk or of synthetic textile

fibres or filaments , or both , imported in the web in

lengths of not less than five yards each by manufacturers

of neckties , scarves , or mufflers , for use exclusively

in the manufacture of such articles in their own

factories ..........

15 p.c.

565 Embroideries , lace , braids , cords , chenille , gimp , fringes

and tassels , whether containing tinsel or not , nets ,

nettings and bobbinet , n.o.p. .....

221 p.c.

566 Plaited or braided lines and cords , non-elastic , whether

of tubular or of solid construction , not exceeding one

inch in circumference , wholly or in chief part by weight

of vegetable fibres

30 p.c.

567 Clothing , wearing apparel and articles , made from woven

fabrics and all textile manufactures , wholly or partially

manufactured , n.o.p. , of which silk is the component of chief value .......

30 p.o.

A470

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part 1 - Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

567a Clothing, wearing apparel and articles, made from woven fabrios and all textile manufactures , wholly or partially manufactured , n.o.p. , of which the component of chief value is synthetic textile fibres or filaments

274 p...

567b Church vestments of any material

10 p...

568 Knitted garments , knitted underwear and knitted goods, n.o.p. .......

35 p.o.

568 Sooks and stockings : (1 ) of wool
( 11 ) N.o.p.

and, per dozen pairs and , per dozen pairs

27 p.c. $1.20
20 p ... 75 ots .

568b Gloves and mitts of all kinds , n.o.p.

25 p.c.

ex 568b Gloves of kid , n.o.p.

22 p.o.

568c Women's dress gloves of kid , elbow length

10 p.c.

569 Hats, hoods and shapes of fur felt or of wool-and-fur felt,

(1) under such regulations as the Minister may prescribe

221 p.o.

569 Hats , n.o.p. (v)

27 p... and , per dozen $1.00

569a Berets of wool , knitted and fulled .... (1)

22 p.o. and, per dozen 50 ots .

5698 Caps , bonnets and berets , n.o.p. , under such regulations (11) as the Minister may prescribe .....
569 Firemen's helmets ; safety helmets for industrial purposes; parts of such helmets

271 p... Free

ex 571 Carpeting, rugs , stair pads , mats and matting of straw, hamp, flax tow or jute ...

20 p...

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A471

SCHEDULE Y - QANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

571a (1) Mats with out pile , of cocoa fibre... per square foot 3 ots.

(11) Mata, n.o.p. , rugs , carpeting and matting of ooooa

fibre..

...per square yard 7½ ots.

572

Oriental and imitation Oriental rugs or carpets and

carpeting, carpets and rugs , n.o.p. ........................................... 25 p. c.

and, per square foot 5 cts.

573

Enamelled carriage , floor , shelf and table oilcloth ,

linoleum, and cork matting or carpets....

27½ p.c.

5740 Webbing, with strands of rubber interwoven or braided
therein , not exceeding twelve inches in width , n.o.p.; round elastic braid..

25 p. c.

578

Regalia, badges and belts of all kinds , n.o.p.

27½ p. c.

584

Resin or rosin; bone pitch, crude only...

Free

585

Coal and pine pitch , burgundy pitch; and coal and pine

tar, crude, in packages of not less than fifteen gallons Free

586

Coal, anthracite , n.o.p.

Free

587

Coke, n.o.p.

... per ton

$1.00

588

Coal , n.o.p. , including screenings and coal dust of all

kinds

..... per ton

50 cts.

588a Gas for heating , cooking or illuminating , imported by pipe line............. per one thousand cubic feet

3 cts.

589

Charcoal made from wood

per ton

$4.00

597

(1) Pianofortes and orgens, n.o.p.

(ii) Pipe organs

221 p. c. 15 p. c.

....

A472

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I (Cont'd )

Canadian
Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

599a (1) Musical instruments of all kinds , .o , p .

(11 ) Phonographs , graphophones , gramophones and finished parts thereof, n.o.p. , including oylinders and records therefor .....

(111) Mechanical piano and organ players

Rate of Duty 17 p...
20 p... 20 p.c.

ex 597a Cylinders or records specially made for use in the study

of languages , under such regulations as may be prescribed

by the Minister

Free

597b Harps

15 p...

5970 Strings for musical instruments

15 p.0.

598 (1) Brass band instruments , n.o.p. ....

20 p..

(11 ) Pipe organ player actions and parts thereof ; parts of pipe organs , n.o.p. ......
(111 ) Parts of pianofortes and parts of organs , n.o.p. ....

15 p.o. 20 p ...

5988 (1) Brass band instruments , of a class or kind not made in Canada
(11 ) Bagpipes and complete parts thereof

17 p. 25 p.o.

599 Hides and skins , raw, whether dry, salted , or pickled ; and

raw pelts

Free

601 Fur skins of all kinds , not dressed in any manner

Free

602 Astrakhan or Russian hare skins , China goat plates cr rugs ,

and China goat skins , wholly or partially dressed , but

not dyed .....

Free

603 ex 603

Fur skins wholly or partially dressed , n.o.p.

124 p..

Karakul skins , wholly or partially dressed , but not dyed .. Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A473

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian
Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

604 ( 1 ) Belting leather in butts or bends ; and all leather further finished than tanned , n.o.p. ......

17 p.c.

(11 ) Sheepskin or lambskin leather , further finished than

tanned , n.o.p. ...

........ 22 p.c.

604a Crust oil leather , for use in manufacturing chamois leather

10 p.c.

....

6040 Sole leather

22 p.c.

605 (1) Leather produced from East India tanned kip , un-

coloured or coloured other than black , when imported for

use exclusively in lining boots and shoes

15 p.c.

(11) Genuine reptile leathers

7p.c.

605a Genuine pig leathers and genuine Morocco leathers ; scalled roller leathers

20 p.c.

606 Leather produced from East India tanned kip , n.o.p. ...... 25 p.c. and, per square foot 2 cta .

607 Leather , when imported by manufacturers of gloves or leather clothing , for use exclusively in manufacturing gloves or leather clothing , in their own factories

7 p.o.

607 Pt.2

Leather , consisting of beef-cattle hides , horse -hides or sheep-skins , but not including suedes , Cabrettas , Spanish capes r African capes , when imported by manufacturers of
gloves or leather clothing , for use exclusively in manufacturing gloves or leather clothing in their own factories

15 p.o.

607 Leather , not further finished than tanned , in whole hides , in grains , or splits , when imported by manufacturers of
upholstering leathers , for use exclusively in the manufacture of upholstering leathers , in their own factories . 15 p.o.

608 Leather not further finished than tanned , and skins , n.o.p. .....

15 p.c.

A474

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
609

Description of Products Belting, of leather

Rate of Duty 22 p.c.

610 Belting, n.o.p. ....

20 p.c.

611a (1 ) Boots, shoes , slippers and insoles of any material , n.o.p.
(11 ) Canvas shoes with rubber soles

27 p.c. 27 p.c.

611b Leather garments , lined or unlined

271 p.c.

612 Harness and saddlery , including horse boots , n.o.p. ..

20 p.c.

612a English type saddles

27 p.c.

613 Manufactures of leather , including manufactures of rawhide , n.o.p.

22 p.o.

616 ex (11 ) Recovered rubber and rubber substitute

Free

ex (111 ) Latex , being crude natural rubber in liquid form , not compounded beyond the addition of preservatives .. Free

616a Balata , crude , unmanufactured ....

10 p.o.

616b Gutta percha , unmanufactured

10 p.c.

617 Rubber boots and shoes

22 p...

618 Rubber cement and all manufactures of rubber and gutta percha , n.o.p. ..

20 p.c.

618b Tires of rubber for vehicles of all kinds , fitted or not .. 25 p ...

619 Rubber or gutta peroha hose , and cotton hose lined with rubber; rubber mats or matting and rubber packing ....... 22 p...

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A475

SCHEDULE V CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

619a Rubber clothing and clothing made from water- proofed cotton

fabrics

27 p.c.

622 Trunks , valises , hat boxes , carpet bags , tool bags , and baskets of all kinds , n.o.p.

22 p.6.

623 Musical instrument cases and fancy cases or boxes of all

kinds , portfolios and fancy writing desks , satchels ,

reticules , card cases , purses , pocket- books , fly books and

parts thereof

22 p ...

624 Bead ornaments , and ornaments of alabaster , spar , amber , terra cotta or composition ; fans of all kinds ; statues and statuettes of any material , n.o.p.

17 p.c.

624a (1 ) Dolls .....
Toys of all kinds , n.o.p.
(11 ) Mechanical toys of metal
( 111 ) Juvenile construction sets of metal or rubber , consisting of various stampings , punched or moulded , and connections therefor ; parts of the foregoing : (a) of metal ....
(b) of rubber

25 p.c. 30 p.c. 30 p.c.
25 p.c. 20 p.c.

624b Statues and statuettes of porcelain or earthenware

17 p.c.

625 Caps , hats , muffs , tippets , capes , coats and cloaks of fur ,

and other manufactures of fur , n.o.p.

25 p.c.

628 Braces or suspenders , and finished parts thereof

22p.c.

629 Umbrellas , parasols and sunshades of all kinds and materials

25 p.c.

634 Feathers and manufactures of feathers , n.o.p .; artificial feathers , fruits , grains , leaves and flowers suitable for ornamenting hats

22 p ...

A476

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item :
Number

Description of Products

642 Hatters ' furs , not on the skin

Rate of Duty Free

647 Jewellery of any material , for the adornment of the person, n.o.p.

324 p.c.

ex 648a Diamonds , rough or uncut , and not advanced in condition or

value from their natural state by cleaving , splitting,

outting, or other process , whether in their natural form

or broken

Free

649 Shoe buttons , n.o.p.

20 p.o.

650a Button blanks of animal shell , in the rough

Free

651 Buttons of all kinds , covered or not , and button blanks

other than in the rough, n.o.p .; recognition buttons and

ouff or oollar buttons

25 p.o.

and , per gross 5 ots.

651a Buttons, and button blanks other than in the rough, of vegetable ivory
and , per gross

25 p.c. 10 cts .

652 Toilet or dressing combs , n.o.p .; fancy combs , not being

jewellery ......

20 p.c.

but not less than

.... per gross $1.44

653 Brushes of all kinds , .o.p.

25 p.o.

654 (1 ) Bristles , natural

Free

(ii) Broom corn

Free

655 ( 1 ) Pens , n.o.p. , penholders and rulers , of all kinds .... 221 p.c.

(11 ) Pen nibs of steol

12 p.c.

655a Lead pencils and crayons , n.o.p.

30 p.o.

65b Crayons of chalk or chalk-like material , coloured or not .. 20 p.0 .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A477

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

656 (a) Tobacco pipes of all kinds
(b) Cigar and cigarette holders
(0) Cases for cigar and cigarette holders , cigar and cigarette cases , smokers ' sets and cases therefor , and tobacco pipe mounts
(d) Tobacco pouches

224 p... 25 p.c.
25 p.o. 25 p.c.

657a Cinematograph or moving picture films , positives , one and one-eighth of an inch in width and over, n.o.p. .... ..per linear foot 1 ots.

6576 Parts, unfinished , when imported by manufacturers of
cameras , for use in the manufacture of cameras , in their own factories ...............

5 p.0.

658 Film of standard width ( one and one-eighth of an inch

and over) when imported for the sole purpose of having

16 millimetre reproductions made therefrom and provided

that the original is re-exported within three months

from date of importation ....

Free

659 Photographic dry plates

25 p.0.

662 Fertilizers , unmanufactured , including phosphate rook, kainite or German potash salts and German mineral
potash; bone -dust , charred bone and bone ash; fish offal or refuse and animal or vegetable manures ......

Free

663 Fertilizers , compounded or manufactured , .o.p. ......

5 p..

95347 O 49 - pt. 5- -31

A478

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V CANADA Part I - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

663b Artioles which enter into the cost of the manufacture of
fertilizers , when imported for use exclusively in the manufacture of fertilizers ....

Rate of Duty Free

6630 Soya beans , soya bean oil cake and soya bean oil meal,

when imported for use as animal or poultry feeds , or as

fertilizer, or when imported for use in the manufacture

of animal or poultry feeds or fertilizers ....

Tree

6630 Sea-weeds or sca-plants, charred, whether powdered or not, for use exclusively in the feeding of animals

15 p.0.

6631 Iodised mineral salts , for use axolusively in the feeding animals

15 p.e.

669 Emery (including corundum and garnet ) , in bulk, crushed

or ground .......

Free

670 Grinding wheels , stones or blocks, manufactured by the bonding together of either natural or artificial abrasives ; manufactures of emery or of artificial abrasives , n.o.p. ......

20 p.o.

674 Ivory and ivory nuts , piano key ivories and veneers of

ivory unmanufactured ....

Free

680 Fossils , shells , tortoise and mother-of-pearl , and other

shells unmanufactured

Free

680a Sponges of marine production

15 p.o.

683 Barytes

25 p.0.

684 Rubber thread , not covered

10 p.c.

685 Pantographs and parts thereof , including diamond points ,

and engraving mills , for engraving copper rollers used

in printing textiles and wallpapers ; blankets , blanketing

and lapping imported for use exclusively by textile

manufacturers and wallpaper printers

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A479

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part I (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

688 Artificial teeth , not mounted , and materials for use only in the manufacture thereof

Rate of Duty Free

689 Charcoal , animal , for use in the refining of sugar

25 p c .

710 (b ) Usual coverings containing goods , not machinery , subject to any ad valorem duty , when not included in the
invoice value of the goods they contain

7p.c.

(bb) Usual coverings containing machinery subject to any ad valorem duty , when not included in the invoice value of the goods they contain

7p.c.

711
ex 711 ex 711 ex 711 ex 711 ex 711 ex 711

All goods not enumerated in this schedule as subject to any other rate of duty , and not otherwise declared free of duty , and not being goods the importation whereof is by law prohibited
Provided that duty shall not be deemed to be provided for by this item upon dutiable goods mentioned as "n.o.p. " in any preceding tariff item .
Provided further that when the component material of chief value in any non-enumerated article consists of dutiable material enumerated in this schedule as bearing a higher rate of duty than is specified in this tariff item , such non -enumerated article shall be subject to the highest duty which would be chargeable thereon if it were composed wholly of the component material thereof of chief value , such " component material of chief value " being that component material which shall exceed in value any other single component material in its condition as found in the article .
Roofing granules , whether or not coloured or coated
Hominy grits , corn grits , hominy feeds , and brewers' corn grits ....
Vegetable colourings
Vegetable flavourings
Activated clay , when imported for use in the refining of oils ....
Oyster shells , not further manufactured than crushed or screened , or both , for use as poultry feeds or in the manufacture of poultry feeds ....

20 p.c.
15 p.c. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 10 p.c.

A480

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I ( Cont'd

Canadian
Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

ex 711

Mica , phlogopite and muscovite , unmanufactured , in blocks ,

sheets , splittings , films , waste and scrap

12p.c.

ex 711

Coal -tar benzol , when imported by refiners of crude petroleum, for use exclusively in blending with gasoline wholly produced in Canada

10 p.c.

ex 711

Vermiculite , crude , or not further processed than ground and screened

10 p.c.

ex 711 Asbestos, crude

Free

ex 711 Mineral and medicinal waters , natural , under regulations

154

prescribed by the Minister

Free

ex 711 Potassic nitrate of soda , n.o.p.

Free

ex 711 ex 4450 ex 445d
et al

Quartz, piezoelectric :(1) Not further processed than cut into slabs or blanks and ground to shape ......
(11) Fully manufactured ready for use in electric telephone , telegraph, wireless or radio apparatus ......

756 Artificial abrasive grains , crushed or ground , when imported for use in Canadian manufactures

Free 10 p.c. Free

792 Cotton pulp imported by manufacturers for use exclusively

in their own factories in the manufacture of yarns of

synthetic textile fibres or filaments , under regulations

to be prescribed by the Minister

Free

797 Yarns, wholly of cotton , number forty and finer , not more advanced than singles , when imported by manufacturers for use exclusively in their own factories in the manufacturing of cotton sewing thread

10 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT, 30, 1947

A481

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part I - (Concluded )

Canadian
Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

802 Materials and parts as hereunder specified , when imported

by manufacturers of umbrellas , parasols , sunshades , walking sticks or canes , under such regulations as the Minister may prescribe , for use in the manufacture of such articles in their own factories : -

(a ) Mounts, sticks , rods , ribs , runners , rings , oaps ,

notches , tips , ferrules and assembled frames

Free

(b) Umbrella-covering fabrics of a kind not made in Canada, whether or not specially treated but not further manufactured than with hemmed selvedges , when imported in lengths of not less than ten yards each, with or without natural selvedges ............ Free

825 Woven oord tire fabric , wholly or in chief part by weight of synthetic textile fibres or filaments , not to contain silk nor wool , coated with a rubber composition, when imported by manufacturers of rubber , to be incorporated by them in pneumatic tires , in their own factories .............. 15 p.o.

826 Wire drawing dies in the rough, not being complete parts of machinery, and materials or articles entering into their manufacture

5 p.o.

835 Methyl ethyl ketone imported by Canadian manufacturers
under such regulations as the Minister may prescribe , for use exclusively as a solvent for polyvinyl chloride.. Tree

838 Oitioioa oil

Free

ox 711

A482

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

· CANADA

Part II

Preferential Tariff

Canadian Turiff Item
Number

Description of Products

22 Preparations of cocoa or chocolate in powder form

Rate of Duty 22 p.o.

23 Preparations of cocoa or shocolate , n.o.p. , and oon-

fectionery, coated with or containing chocolate , the

weight of the wrappings and cartons to be included in

the weight for duty

.... 10 p.o.

and, par pound 24 ots.

28 Coffee, green 29

Free

28a Tea .......

...per pound 4 ots.

29a When in packages weighing five pounds , each, or less, the weight of such packages to be included in the

weight for duty,

34 Mustard , ground
64 Sago and tapioca ...
900 Vegetable juices , liquid mustards, soy and vegetable sauces of all kinds ....

12 p.o. 12 p.o. 12 p.o.

1054 Jellies, jams , marmalades, preserves, fruit butters and

condensed minoe meats .....

....... per pound lots.

110 Cocoamuts

Free

111

113 Coocanut, desiccated, sweetened or not ......... per pound 2 ots.

122 Herring (not including kippered horring in sealed containers ) packed in oil or otherwise , in scaled containers
141 Sugar candy and confectionery, n , o.p . , including sweetened gums, candied popcorn, candied nuts, flavouring powders , custard powders , jelly powders , sweetmeats, sweetened breads , cakes , pies , puddings and all other confections containing sugar

15 p... 15 p.0.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A483

SCHEDULE Y - CANADA Part II · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

143a Cigarettes, the weight of the paper covering to be in-

eluded in the weight for duty

...... per pound $2,00

and 15 p.o.

And in addition thereto , when weighing not more than
three pounds per thousand, under all tariffs, $2.00 per thousand .

1524 Papaine

Free

ex 156

Spirituous or alcoholic liquors ( subject to the provisions attaching to tariff item 156 ) , viz.:-
( 1 ) Whisky ............... per gallon of the strength of proof
And in addition thereto, under all tariffs, $7.00 per gallon of the strength of proof.

$4.50

(11) Gin, n.o.p ..... per gallon of the strength of proof
And in addition thereto , under all tariffs , $7.00 per gallon of the strength of proof.

$4.50

(111) Rum, n.o.p. .... per gallon of the strength of proof
And in addition thereto , under all tariffs , $7.00 per gallon of the strength of proof.

$4.50

(17) Brandy ......... per gallon of the strength of proof
And in addition thereto, under all tariffs , $7.00 per gallon of the strength of proof.

$4.00

(v) Liqueurs ....... per gallon of the strength of proof
And in addition thereto, under all tariffs , $7.00 per gallon of the strength of proof.

$4.50

A484

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Fart II - (Cont'd )

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

ex 156 Angostura bitters ..... per gallon of the strength of proof $2.00 156b

159 Spirits and strong waters of any kind , mixed with any in-

gredient or ingredients , as being or known or designated

as essences , extracts , or ethereal and spirituous fruit

essences, .o..

..per gallon $5.00

and 30 p ...

168 Malt flour containing less than fifty per centum in weight

of malt; malt syrup or malt syrup powder, n.o.p .;

extracts of malt , fluid or not ; grain molasses --all

articles in this item upon valuation without British or

foreign excise duties , under regulations prescribed by the Minister

20 p ...

179 Labels for cigar boxes , fruits , vegetables , meats , fish, confectionery or other goods or wares ; shipping , price or other tags , tickets or labels , and railroad or other tickets , whether lithographed or printed , or partly printed , n.o.p.

17 p.o.

181 Bank notes, bonds , bills of exchange , oheques , promissory

notes , drafts and all similar work, unsigned , and cards or other commercial blank forms printed or lithographed ,

or printed from steel or copper or other plates , and other printed matter , n.o.p.

17 p.c.

181a Pictorial post-cards , greeting cards and similar artistic oards or folders

15 p.c.

198 Ruled and border and coated papers , baxed papers , pads not

printed, papier-mâché ware , n.o.p. ...............

174 p.o.

199 Papeteries , envelopes , and all manufactures of paper, n.o.p.

17 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A485

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part II · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
220

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

All medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations , compounded of more than one substance , including patent and proprietary preparations , tinctures , pills , powders , troches, lozenges , filled capsules , tablets , syrups , cardials, bitters , anodynes , tonios , plasters , liniments , salves, ointments , pastes , drops , waters, essences and oils , n.o.p.:-
(11 ) Liquid, when containing not more than two and one-half per centum of proof spirit .......
Provided , also , that drugs , pill-mass and preparations, not including pills or medicinal plasters , recognized by the British or United States pharmacopoeia , the Canadian Formulary or the French Codex as officinal , shall not be held to be covered by this item.

174 p...

228 (1) Toilet soap, n.o.p. ·····

15 p...

(11 ) Soap powders, powdered soap , mineral soap, and soap, n.o.p... ......... .

15 p..

233 (1) Glue, n.o.p. (11) Gelatine , n.o.p ......

and , per pound

15 p.o. 2 ets.
15 p..

249 Varnishes, lacquers , japans , japan driers , liquid driers,

and oil finish , n.o.p.

..............per gallon 15 sts .

and 5 p.0.

284 (1 ) Drain pipes , sewer pipes and earthenware fittings therefor, chimey linings or vents , ahimnoy tops and invorted blocks , glazeu or unglazed , n.o.p.
(11) Earthenware tilos , n.o.p.

15 p.. 15 p.0.

288 Stoneware and Rockingham ware and earthenware, .o.p. .... 174 p.0.

A486

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part II (Cont'd)

Canadian
Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

362 Articles consisting wholly or in part of sterling or other

silverware , n.o.p .; manufactures of gold or silver ,

n.o.p.

17 p.o.

8620 Nickel-plated ware , gilt or electro-plated ware , n.o.p... 15 p...

567 Watch cases, and parts thereof, finished or unfinished ... 15 p...

385 Sheets, plates , hoop, band or strip , of iron or steel :(b) Coated with tin, n.o.p. ......
The rate of duty set opposite tariff item 383(b) shall be effective as soon as the necessary legislation can be enacted .

15 p.o.

402a Woven or welded wire fencing, of iron or steel , coated or not, n.o.p .; wire cloth or wire netting, of iron or steel, coated or not

171 p.0.

402 Woven netting, of iron or steel , coated , made from wire of

17 gauge or heavier , with meshes not smaller than one ine

and not larger than two inches , with specially strength-

ened joints , when for use exclusively on fur farms , under

regulations prescribed by the Minister: -

(1) of a class or kind not made in Canada

5 p.o.

(11) N.o.p. ...

124 p...

439a Articles , of iron or steel , wholly or in part of nickel or electro-plated , when imported by manufacturers of biayales or tricycles for use exclusively in the mamifacture of bioyoles or trioyoles , in their own factories , under regulations prescribed by the Minister. 10 p...

459b Cars, n.o.p. , wheelbarrows , trucks , road or railway scrapers and hand carts .......

10 p.0.

4430 Guns and rifles of a class or kind not made in Canada .... Froe

4451 x 446a

Electric sadirons and complete parts thereof
Loomotive beds or frames of steel , east a one piece ; tender frames of steel , east in one piece ; cast steel aradles for the rear ends of locomotive frames ; cast steel truck frames and bolsters for engines, tenders and passenger coaches ; platform castings for passenger coaches ; all the foregoing, whether in the rough or semimanufactured, for use on railway rolling stook .......

12 p... Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A487

SCHEDULE V · CANADA Part II · (Cont'd)

Canadian
Tariff Item Humber

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

ex 446a Tools of iron or steel , for use in machines, n.o.p. , of a

class or kind not made in Canada

Free

ex 446a

Metal shells and hinges, for use in manufacturing

jewellery boxes and spectacle cases, not further finished

than shaped ......

Free

451b Pins manufactured from wire of any metal : (11) N.o.p. ... ..................
4510 Slide, hookless , or zipper fasteners

15 p.e. 25 p...

468 (1) Philosophical , photographic , mathematical and optical instruments, n.o.p .; speedometers , cyclometers and pedometers, n.o.p .; complete parts of all the foregoing.. at p...

(11) Cameras and complete parts thereof, n.o.p.:(a) of a class or kind not made in Canada
(b) N.o.p.

5 p.0. Ttp.o.

582 Cotton sewing thread yarn and orochet, knitting, darning and embroidery yarn, in hanks , when imported by manufacturers for use exclusively in their own factories in the manufacturing or spooling of cotton sewing thread and crochet, knitting, darning and embroidery cottons ... 5 p.e.

525a Woven fabrics , wholly of cotton, bleached or mercerized, not coloured, n.o.p. ......

174 p.0.

585 Woven fabrics , wholly of cotton, printed , dyed or coloured, n.o.p.:(1) Valued at more than 80 cents per pound

274 p.0.

(11) Valued at 50 cents or more but not more than 80 cents per pound ........

17 p...

(111) Valued at less than 50 cents per pound

174 p.0.

(iv) Woven fabrios , wholly of cotton, commonly known as denims, when imported by manufacturers for use in their own fastories in the manufacture of garments.... 171 p.o.

A488

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V.· CANADA Part II - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number
5231

Description of Products
Shadow aretonnes , wholly of cotton, with printed warp and plain weft .....

Rate of Duty 10 p.o.

523k Gabardines , wholly of cotton, with not less than 280 ends and picks of ply yarn per square inch ....... ........... 10 p.0.

529 Embroideries , lace , nets , nettings , bobbinet , n.o.p. , fringes and tassels , wholly of cotton ......

15 p...

532 (1) Clothing, wearing apparel and articles made from woven
fabrios , and all textile manufactures , wholly or partially manufactured , composed wholly of cotton, n.o.p. .......... 25 p.o.

(11) Ourtains , wholly or partially manufactured , composed wholly of cotton, n.o.p.

221 p...

(111 ) Fabrios wholly of cotton, coated or impregnated, n.o.p 22 p.c.

(iv) Cotton bags , not seamless

20 p ...

532a Handkerchiefs wholly of ootton
537a Rovings , yarns and warps wholly or in part of vegetable fibres, including yarn twist , cords and twines generally used for packaging and other purposes , n.o.p. , not to contain silk, synthetic textile fibres or filaments , nor wool

124 p... 15 p.o.

5370 Rovings, yarns and warps wholly of jute , including yarn twist, oords and twines generally used for packaging and other purposes , n.o.p. ...

20 p.o.

540 (o) Towelling and glass cloth of crash or huck, with or

without lettering or monograms woven in , table cloths

and napkins of crash with coloured borders , in the web,

wholly of flax or hemp; woven fabrics , in the web ,

composed in part of flax or hemp, not containing silk , synthetic textile fibres or filaments , nor wool ....
and, per pound

15 p.6. 3 ots.

(d) Towels and glass oloths of orash or huck, with or without lettering or monograms woven in , table cloths and napkins of crash with coloured borders , wholly or in part of flax or hemp, not containing silk, synthetic textile fibres or filaments , nor wool
and , per pound

15 p.0. 3 ots .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A489

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part II - (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

542

Woven fabrics , wholly or in part of vegetable fibres ,

and all such fabrios with cut pile , n.o.p. , not con-

taining silk, synthetic textile fibres or filaments, nor weal ............. .

1948.0.

551

Yarns, composed wholly or in part of wool or hair but not

containing silk, or synthetic textile fibres or fila-

ments, n.o.p.

15 p...

and, per pound 5 ets.

ex 552

Jelt, splint, for use in making moulded splints for

medicinal purposes ....................

Free

554

Woven fabrics , composed wholly or in chief part by weight

of yarns of wool or hair, not exceeding in weight six

ounces to the square yard , n.o.p. , when imported in the

gray or unfinished condition, for the purpose of being

dyed or finished in Canada .....

15 p.0.

and , per pound

ots.

554b Woven fabrics composed wholly or in part of yarns of wool

or hair, n.o.p. ......

20 p...

and , per pound 12 ots .

Provided, however, that the sum of the specific and ad valorem duties shall not be in excess of .... per pound 50 ets .

ex 5540 ex 5498

Filter press cloth of wool or hair (except human hair) .. Free

555

Clothing, wearing apparel and articles made from woven

fabrios , and all textile manufactures , wholly or

partially manufactured , composed wholly or in part of

wool or similar animal fibres , but of which the component

of chief value is not silk nor synthetic textile fibres

or filaments , n.o.p .; fabrics , coated or impregnated,

composed wholly or in part of yarns of wool or hair,

but not containing silk nor synthetic textile fibres or filaments , n.o.p. .....

25 p...

A490

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE V- CANADA Part II · (Cont'd)

Canadian Tariff Item
ber

Description of Products

841 Woven fabrics wholly or in part of synthetic textile fibres or filaments , not to contain wool , not including fabrics in chief part by weight of silk, n.o.p. ........

Rate of Duty 224 p...

565 Embroideries , lace , braids , cords , chenille , gimp, fringes

and tassels, whether containing tinsel or not , nets ,

nettings and bobbinet, n.o.p. .....

171 p.o.

566 Plaited or braided lines and cords , non-elastic , whether

of tubular or of solid construction, not exceeding one

inch in circumference , wholly or in chief part by weight

of vegetable fibres

15 p.o.

569a Clothing, wearing apparel and articles, made from woven

fabrics and all textile manufactures , wholly or partially

manufactured, n.o.p. , of which the component of chief value is synthetic textile fibres ar filaments ......

20 p ...

6933

569 Hats, hoods and shapes of fur felt or of wool-and-fur felt

(1)

under such regulations as the Minister may prescribe .... 174 p.o.

871a (1) Mats with out pile, of cocoa fibre .... per square foot 21ots.
(11) Mats, n.o.p. , rugs , carpeting and matting of cocoa ........ per square yard 64 ots.

572 Oriental and imitation Oriental rugs or carpets and carpeting, carpets and rugs , n.o.p. .....

25 p.4.

606 Leather produced from East India tanned kip , n.o.p. ...... 20 p.0. and, per square foo 2 ots.

6114 (1) Boots, shoes , slippers and insoles of any material, 2.0.P. ....
(11) Canvas shoes with rubber soles

20 p... 20 p ...

6113 Leather garments, lined or unlined

17 p.o.

618 Harness and saddlery, including horse boots , n.o.p. ..... 15 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A491

SCHEDULE V - CANADA Part II (Concluded )

Canadian Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

613 Manufactures of leather , including manufactures of rawhide, n.o.p. ...

Rate of Duty 174 p.o.

61.98 Rubber clothing and clothing made from water-proofed cotton fabrios .....

294 p...

622 Trunks , valises , hat boxes , carpet bags, tool bags, and baskets of all kinds , n.o.p. .....

12 p.c.

623 Musical instrument cases and fanoy cases or boxes of all
kinds, portfolios and fancy writing desks , satchels, reticules, card cases, purses , pocket -books , fly books and parts thereof ......

12 p.c.

647 Jewellery of any material , for the adorment of the person, n.o.p.

224 p...

655 (11) Pan nibs of steel

Tree

710 (b) Usual coverings containing goods , not machinery,

subject to any ad valorem duty, when not included in the

invoice value of the goods they contain .....

Free

(bb) Usual coverings containing machinery subject to any

ad valorem duty, when not included in the invoice value

of the goods they contain .......

Free

CENERAL NOTE
Provided, that no tariff item, description of products or rate of duty in Schedule V shall apply or be deemed to apply to goods the importation of which into Canada was , prior to the coming into force of this Agreement , prohibited under the provisions of Section 13 ( and listed in Sohedule " C" ) of the Customs Tariff of Canada .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A493

GENERAL AGREDENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE
SCHEDULE VI - CEYLON
The offers contained in this schedule represent the concessions which Ceylon is prepared to grant as part of a mutually advantageous agreement . The Government of Ceylon reserves the right to mocify or withdraw any or all the concessions offered , in the light of the results of future negotiations , or of any circumstances affecting its attitude to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade,

95347

-49-pt. 5- -32

A494

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VI - CEYLON This Schedule is authentic only in the English language.
PART I Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

Ceylon Tariff item
mmber IA 2 (i) IA 3 (11) IA 4 IA 5 IB 2 IC 1,4 IC 2
IC 3,9 IC 7
IC 8
IE 1 IE 3 IE 3 IE 7 IE 10 IE 19 IE 26 I E 33 I E 36
IE 37

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Flour, wheaten Beans ..... SA.go

.... per owt. .... per cwt.

Rs. 1.50 Rs. 0.75
20%

Tapioca

Bran and pollard

Free

Bacon and ham

25%

Beef, frozen or refrigerated, tinned, potted

or preserved .........

25%

Poultry and game , frozen or refrigerated

25%

Mutton, frozen or refrigerated , tinned, potted

or preserved ......

25%

Pig products, frozen or refrigerated (other

than bacon and ham) ...

25%

Aerated and mineral waters

20%

Apples, fresh (from 1st September to 31st March Apples, fresh (from 1st April to 31st August ) . Butter, frozen or tinned ......
Cereal foods , prepared ne.s. Confectionery ..
Dripping Fish, tinned, potted or preserved ne.s. Fruit, dried or otherwise preserved, without sugar (other than canned fruits, currants,
dates and raisins) ...................

15% 20% 25% 20% 30% 171% 15%
25%

Fresh fruits (other than apples and grapes )

(from 1st November to 30th June ) ....

20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A495

SCHEDULE VI - CEYLON PART I (continued)

Ceylon Tarif item
number II 37 IR 38 I E 45 I E 45 I E 49, 50, 55 I E 51 I E 57 IE 58
IE 62 I E 65 IF 8
II B 1
II D 4
II D 5
II D 6
II F 7

Description of Products

Rate of duty

* *** **¡

Fresh fruits ( other than apples and grapes) (from 1st July to 31st October) ......
Fruit, canned or bottled ....... Grapes, fresh (from 1st June to 31st January) .... Grapes, fresh (from 1st February to 31st May) ....

Jams, jellies and marmalades
Lard .....
Milk foods (to include malted milks ) ................
Milk, fresh or refrigerated, preserved , condensed or sterilised, sweetened or unsweetened (incl . milk powder) ......

171% Free
Free

Oil, edible, fish (other than codliver oil and preparations thereof)
Olive oil .....

Rs. 20/10%

Tobacco, unmanufactured, other Note : The product specified in Item I F 8 shall
be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation customs duty which exceeds the preferential duty on such product by more than Ps. 2.25.

Asphalt Timber scantlings Timber sleepers ....... Plywood and veneers Raw wool

...... Der crt.

Rs. 1/+ surcharge of 10% of duty
25%  surcharge of 10% of duty

+ surcharge of 10% of duty
25%  surcharge of 10% of duty
Free

A496

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VI - CEYLON PART I (continued)

Ceylon Tariff item
number II G 10 A
II G 12 A
II G 12 B

Description of Products
Essential oils , natural ( other than perfumes) . the following oils only : Ylang-Ylang oil, vetyver oil and geranium oil ..... (the duty on other essential oils to remain at existing rate of 30%)
Sesamm seed ( incl. sesamum pulp) Note : Sesamum is known in Ceylon as
gingelly.
Groundnuts

II J 19 III B 5

Seeds for agricultural and horticultural purposes ......................
Chinaware and porcelainware n. e. s. ......

III E 1

Agricultural implements (incl. forks, harrows, picks and ploughs)

III E 5

Implements and tools (except machine tools and parts thereof ) n...

III E 7 (11) Photographic instruments and apparatus (incl. paper, plates and films , except oinema films)

III F 8 III G 1

Wireless goods and apparatus and parts thereof
Agricultural machinery and component parts thereof

III G 3

Cranes, hoists and lifting machinery and component parts thereof ....

Rate of duty
15% + surcharge of 10% of duty
124% surcharge of 10% of duty
12 surcharge of 10% of duty
Free
25% surcharge of 10% of duty
10% surcharge of 10% of duty
20%  surcharge of 10% of duty
35%  surcharge of 10% of duty
272%
20%  surcharge of 10% of duty
20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A497

SCHEDULE VI · CEYLON PART I (continued)

Ceylon Tariff item
number III G 4
(+1)

De: cription of Products
Electric machinery and component parts thereof, viz. : transformers and convertors motors ....

Rate of duty
15% 15%

III C 10 (iv)
III G 12
III G 13 III G 20 III J 2
III J 6
III L
III N

Windmills
Pumping machinery and component parts thereof
Refrigerators ..... Typewriters and component parts thereof .... Woollen blankets
Woollen and worsted manufacturcs n.e.5.
Natural silk ( incl . any admixture thereof other than admixtures containing over 50% by weight of cotton) and anufactures thereof .....
Artifici silk ( incl. any admixture thereof other than admixtures containing over 50% by weight of cotton) and manufactures there of Note : In the existing Ceylon Customs
Tariff , Silk and artificial Silk and manufactures thereof are classified under one item (vide : Customs notification No 44/2 of 2.10.44 )

20%  surcharge of 10% of duty
20%  surcharge of 10% of duty
271%
1725
25% + surcharge of 10% of duty
25% + surcharge of 10% of duty
35% surcharge of 10% of duty
40% + surcharge of 10% of duty

A498

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VI - CEYLON PART I ( continued)

Ceylon Tariff item
number
III M 1 (1)

Description of Products Artificial silk yarn

III M 10

Linen manufactures n.e.s.

III N 4 (iv)

Outer and inner garments of wool

III N 6 (vi)

Hats , woollen ...

III O 1 (iii)

Sulphuric acid

III 0 8

Chemicals n.e.s.

III O 15 III 0 16

Paints, colours and enamels .... Patent medicines (except quinine medicines) .

III P 12

Turpentine

III 2 1,2,3 Leather and leather goods n.e.s.

III R 16 (ii )

Packing and wrapping paper (other than for lining tea chests , toa packets and dessicated cocoanut chests)

Rate of duty
15% + surcharge of 10% of duty
25% + surcharge of 10% of duty
25% surcharge of 10% of duty
20% surcharge of 10% of duty
20% surcharge of 10% of duty
20% surcharge of 10% of duty
20%
15% + surcharge of 10% of duty
205 surcharge of 10% of duty
20% surcharge of 10% of duty
35% surcharge of 10 % of duty

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A499

VI - OKYLON PART I ( continued)

Onylon Tariff item III 2 21 III U 20 III U 23
III U 24 III U 35
III U 37 III V 38

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Tissue paper .................
Mass beads and bangles (incl. imitation pearls) ...
Haberdashery and millinery (excl. manufactures of silk and artificial silk) .. Note : The wording of the above tariff description is the amended form contained in Customs notification No 44/2 of 2.10.44
Jewellery of precious metals and gold and silver ware ( other than haberdashery)
Musical instruments (other than gramophones, phonographs, records and component parts, but incl. pianolas, component parts and acoessories) Note : The wording of the above tariff description is the amended form contained in Customs notification No 44/2 of 2.10.44 Noorcloth ............................
Painters materials n.1. 8.

15% surcharge of 10% of duty
15% + surcharge of 10% of duty
25% + surcharge of 10% of duty
35%  surcharge of 10% of duty
30% surcharge of 10% of duty
fox of duty 20%
 surcharge of 10% of duty

A500

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VI - CEYLON PART I ( concluded)

Ceylon Tariff item
mmber III U 39
III U 46 III U 50 III U 56 N 10
Unclassified

Description of Products

Perfumed spirits

per.gall.

(if packed in bottles of weight less than

four ounces)

per gall. (if packed in larger containers or bottles)

Reconstructed or imitation, precious and semi-precious stones ( artificial or synthetic) .......
Sport and athletic materials Note : The wording of the above tariff
description is the amended form contained in Customs notification No 44/2 of 2.10.44
Toys and parlour games ...
Sheep, live .....
Wall board of wood fibre ...... Note : This item is not specially classified
in the present Customs Tariff. It comes under the general heading of item II D 6 " Wood and Timber, prepared or unprepared n.e.s"
Penicillin, penicillin by-products Note : This item will be separately
classified. At present it is included under tariff item No III 0 13 : "Drugs , medicines and medicinal preparations ne.s. "
Fish liver oil capsules

Rate of duty
Rs. 50/- or 50% ad val. whichever is higher + surcharge of 75% of duty Rs. 60/- or 60% ad val, whichever is higher + surcharge of 75% of duty
25% + surcharge of 10% of duty
35% surcharge of 10% of duty
35% surcharge of 10% of duty
Free 25%
 surcharge of 10% of duty
Free
10%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A501

SCHEDULE VI · CEYLON

PART II Preferential Tariff

Ceylon Tariff item
number IA 3 (11) IC 1,4 IC 2
IC 3,9 IC 7
IC &
IE 3 IR 7 IB 10 IB 19 I B 33 I B 37 I 2 38 I E 45 I E 49 50, 55

Description of Products

Beans ...... Bacon and ham

per out.

Boef, frozen or refrigerated , tinned, potted

or preserved ..........

.........

Poultry and game , frozen or refrigerated .....

Mutton, frozen or refrigerated , tinned, potted  preserved ......
Pig products, frozen or refrigerated (other than bacon and ham) .....

Apples, fresh Butter, frozen or tinned ....

Cereal foods, prepared n.e.s. Confectionery .....

Fish, tinned, potted or preserved n.c.s. ............. Fresh fruits (other than apples and grapes) .. . Fruit, canned or bottled Grapes, fresh

Jams, Jellies and marmalades

Bate of duty
Rs. 0.50 15%
15% 15%
15%
15% 10% 15% 15% 20% 10% 15% 20% 10%
15%

A502

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VI- CEYLON PART II ( continued)

Ceylon Tariff item
Dumber II D 4 II D 5 II D 6
III B 5 III E 1
III E 5
III E 7 (11)
III F 8 III G 1

Description of Products Timber scantlings ......
Timber sleepers ...
Plywood and venoers ..
Chinaware and porcelainware n.e.s.
Agricultural implements (incl. forks , harrows, picks and ploughs)
Implements and tools (except machine tools) and parts thereof ne.a. .......................................
Photographic instruments and apparatus (incl. paper, plates and films, except cinema films)
Wireless goods and apparatus and parts thereof Agricultural machinery and component parts theroof ...

Rate of duty
15%  surcharge of 10% of duty
15%  surcharge of 10% of duty
15% + surcharge 10% ofduty
20% + surcharge 10% of duty
5% + surcharge 10% of duty
10% + surcharge of 10% of duty
30%  surcharge of 10% of duty
25%
10% + surcharge of 10% of duty

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A503

SCHEDULE VI · CEYLON PART II ( continued)

Ceylon Tariff item
number III G 3 III G 4
III G 10
III G 12
III G 13 III G 20 III J 3 III J 6 III L
III ::

(AT)

 

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Cranes , hoists and lifting machinery and

component parts thereof

15%

Electric machinery and component parts thereof

viz. :

transformers and convertors

10%

motors

10%

Windmills Pumping machinery and component parts thereof

10% surcharge of 10% of duty
10% + surcharge of 10% of duty

Refrigerators
Typewriters and component parts thereof Foollen blankets
Woollen and worsted manufactures n.6.8. ......
Natural silk (incl . any admixture thereof other than admixtures containing over 50% by weight of cotton) and Lanufactures thereof
Artificial silk ( incl. any admixture thereof other than admixtures containing over 50% by weight of cotton) and manufactures thereof Note : In the existing Ceylon Customs
Tariff, Silk and artificial Silk and manufactures thereof are classified under one item (vide : Customs notification No 44/2 of 2.10.44)

25%
15% 15% + surcharge of 10% of duty 15% surcharge of 10% of duty
30%  surchargd of 10% of duty
30% + surcharge 10% of duty

A504

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VI CEYLON PART II ( continued)

Ceylon Tariff item
Aumber
III 1 (~)

Description of Products Artificial silk yarn ..

III N 4 (1) Outer and inner arments of wool

III N 6 (vi) Hats, woollen

III O 111)

Sulphuric acid

III 0 8

Chemicals no.5.

III 0 15 III P 12

Paints, colours and enamels Turpentine

III Q 1,2,3 Leather and leather goods n.e.s.

III R 16 (11)

Packing and wrapping paper (other than for lining tea chests, tea packets and dessicated cocoanut chests)

III R 21

Tissue paper ...

Pate of duty
10% + surcharge of 10% of duty
15% + surcharge of 10% of duty
10% + surcharge of 10% of duty
10% + surcharge of 10% of duty
15% + surcharge of 10% of duty
15%
15% + surcharge of 10% of duty
15%  surcharge of 10% of duty
30% + surcharge of 10% of duty
10%  surcharge of 10% of duty

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A505

SCHEDULE TI - CEYLOW PART II (concluded)

Ceylon Tariff item
mmber III U 23
III U 35
111 V 38

Description of Products
Haberdashery and millinery (excl . manufactures of silk and artificial silk) Note : The wording of the above tariff description is the amended form contained in Customs notification No 44/2 of 2.10.44.
Musical instruments ( other than gramophones, phonographs, recorda and component parts, but incl. pianolas, component parts and accessories ) Note : The wording of the above tariff
description is the amended form contained in Customs notification No 44/2 of 2.10.44.
Painters materials n.e.s.

III U 50 III U 56

Sport and athletic materials Note : The wording of the above teriff
description is the amended form contained in Custome notification No 44/2 of 2.10.44 .
Toys and parlour games

Unclassified

Wall board of wood fibre
Note : This item is not specially classified in the present Customs Tariff. It comes under the general heading of item II D 6 " Wood and Timber,
prepared or unprepared n.e.s. "

Rate of duty
20% + surcharge of 10% of duty
25% surcharge of 10% of duty
15%  surcharge of 10% of duty
25%  surcharge of 10% of duty
30%  surcharge of 10% of duty
15%  surcharge of 10% of duty

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A507

Revised Translation by Department of State SCHEDULE VIL · CHILE
This Schedule is authentic only in the French language. PART I
Most-Favoured-Nation Tarift.

Chilean Tariff Item No. [1]

Description of Products

Ex-1 Cadmium ................ .

Rate of duty

1.1.

0.20

2 Cres , crude, not elsewhere specified

100 1.6.

0.50

4 Aluminium in ingots ....

X.O.

0.05

12 Miokel in ingots

I.G.

0.08

Ex- 26 29

Lapure calcined magnesite Graphite or black lead ........................

100 E.G.

8.00

100 X.G.

6.00

Ex-33 Marble, natural, in blocks , not squared

or polished, other than white or prey

X...

0.10

Ex-34 Varble, natural, white , sawn into

slabs or bloaks , not polished

I.G.

0.19

Ex-35 Larble, natural , sawn into slabs or

blocks, not polished , other than white

or gray .......

1.0.

0.20

39 Stones, unworked ornamental , such as

agate, onyx, lapis-lasuli and other

similar stones

I.G.

1.00

43 Coke : metallurgical ......

metric ton G.

6.60

45 I Petroleum : orude , for furnaces or

boilers, .. ............

.... metric ton G.

6.56

Ex-45 47

Food in the rouch, or merely sarm : cedar, mahogany or rosewood .......
Pinewood, in the rough, or merely Sawn :

cubic metr oubio metro

100.00 70.00

3

51 Vegetable wax , including synthetic

vegetable wax ...

I.G.

0.20

Ex-51 Carnauba wax

I.G.

0.20

55

55 liedicinal flowers in bulk, or in

containors weighing more than 1 kg.net x.0.

1.00

[This heading should read " Chilean Tariff Item No. 1946-47" throughout this schedule .]

A508

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VII CHILE PART I ( continued)

Chilean
Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty

57 Gun (rubber, gutta-percha, balata and

other like resins) , raw, whether or

not rolled, up to 1 m. in thickness

or weighing up to 1 kg . net per square

metre , also striated or smoked gun of

any thickness ....

K.G.

Ex-70 Tortoise shell .....

K. L.

76 Shells of mother- of- pearl , shell-fish

and molluscs , in the rough .......

K.G.

76A Nacre, out into pieces , but not other-

wiso wrought , for the manufacture of

buttons

K. L.

78 Sponges

K.N.

Ex-81 Codfish, driod or smoked , in containers

of any kind , also in brine in wooden

containers .......

K.G.

Ex- 83 Pedigree cattle of the bovine species ,

for breeding

each

Ex- 84 Pedigree horses for breeding

each

Ex- 86 Pedigree sheop for breeding ....

each

98 Blood, dried for industrial use ......

X.G.

106 Live plants and fresh flowers ...... 108 Seeds Lucern

100 K.G. K.G.

113 Seeds , cebolletas , bulbs , tubers , eto. ,

of exotic plants or for agriculture , not

elsowhere specified .....

X.G.

133 Coconuts and palm-nuts (coquitos) ....

K.G.

138 Fruits n.e.8 : fresh ..

Ex- 138 Apples , fresh

0.15 8.00 0.05
1.00 5.60
1.00 45.00 35.75 10.00 0.30 0.75 0.10
0.05 0.75 Pree Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A509

SCHEDULE VII CHILE PART I (continued)

Chilean
Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Ex-139 Bananas, dried or dehydratod

X.0.

144 Cocoa, orude or in the bean,

husked or not .......

X.G.

145 Coffee in the bean

X.G.

146 Cooos husks ......

X.G.

160 Tea: in bulk or packed in quantities exoooding 5 kilogrammes net ........ I.6.

153 Yerba- te ......

X.O.

158 Saffron, natural or artificial ..... I.L.

159 Cinnamon and bastard cinnamon: whole x.a.

161 Clovos, whole ....

K.G.

168 Cumins

I.G.

165 Popper, whole

I.G.

167 Vanilla .....

X. L.

172 Cotton, raw, ginned or ungimed .... X.G.

174 Kapok (70getable wool)

X.G.

Ex- 175 Jute fibre ....

K.G.

179 Copra or rufe (meat of the coommut) 100 X.G.

181 Peanuts ....

K.G.

Ex- 207 Flour: of bananas

K.G.

227 Canned soups , n.e.s. ....

K.G.

Ex- 282 Whiskey, Cognac , Armagnac and run .. Rx-265 Angostura bitters
266 Vicky Water

Litre Litre x...

Rate of duty
0.75
0.20 0.25 0.075
1.50 0.20 32.50 0.25 0.50 1.00 0.80 10.00 0.02 0.15 0.05 0.50 0.15 0.375 4.50 6.00 12.50 0.25

95347 O- 49 -pt . 5-33

A510

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VII CHILE PART I (continued)

Chilean Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

300 Sack-cloth, rough, hemp or jute (coarse

cloth) , whether tarred or not, contain-

ing in a square of 5 millimetres side:

8 throads or less ...

I.4.

302 Baise, woollen ......

I.I.

306 Oilcloth and linoleum for floors ...... I.G.

323 Sailcloth and duok: of hemp or juta ... I.I.

324 Sailcloth and duck: of ootton or flax

weighing less than 300 grammes per

square metre .....

I.1.

326 Sailcloth and duck: of cotton or flax,

weighing 300 grammes or more per square

metro ......

I.I.

326 Oanaburg, of cotton (grey cloth

[Tocuyo rough and ogarse , manufactured

from waste), containing not more than

15 threads în a square of 5 millimetres

side .......

X.X.

348 Tissues of wool or cotton, with

ordinary dog-hair , horse hair , etc. ,

called "Optim " , for interlining

wearing apparel ...

I.1.

358 Tissuo of cotton and/or rayon, called "Caorda" (oord), for the manufacture and repair of tyres and inner tubes ... X.0.

389 Linon cloths , not elsewhere specified, bleached, printed , dyed , with coloured
threads or coloured by means of the
sizing, plain, having in a square of 5 millimetres sido up to 30 threads ... I.I.

564 Nade-up clothing of ootton fabrio,

waxed or tarred, including accompanying

hats to match .....

I.N.

714 Benzoic acid .....

I.L.

Rate of duty
0.162 4.00 0.35 0.75 1.90
1.10
0.75
9.00 0.10
9.00 2.00 1.00

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A511

SCHEDULE VII CHILE PART I (continued)

Chilean Tariff Item Ho.l

Description of Products

715 Boric acid ......

X.O.

716 Butyrie and sulphuric acid, in contain-

ers of any capacity , not liable to

corrosion by acid , such as those of

glass, those covered with protective

metal coating, sto.

I.L.

T24 Tannie sold or tannin

I.G.

732 Alkaloids and their compounds :

acomitin, atropin, berberin, brucin,

einehonamin, cinchonidin, einohonin,

socaine , codeine , conin, cotarnin,

suranin, emetine, ergotinin, ergotaxin,

aseramin, spartein , strychnin, gelsemin ,

hydrastin, hyoscyamin, hyoscin,

hotropin, morphine, narcein, narootin,

nicotin, papaverin, pelletierin ,

pilocarpin, piperia , quinidin, quinine,

solanidin, veratrin, yohimbin and others n...8.

Gr.1.

Ex-758 Titrate of samonium

I.G.

772 Anhydride: Xantogenic

X.G.

624 Diastases and vitamins: ingluvn ,

mitin, papain, or papayotin, pancreatin, pepsin, takadiastase and

others , n.e.a.

I.I.

838 Phenols: liquid, orude (carbolic

or phonic acid) and cresol (crosylio

aoid) ......

I.G.

914 Xanthate of potassium

I.G.

929 Cyanide of sodium

100 X.G.

-956 Cod-liver oil

X.G.

Bx-958 Shark liver oil

I.G.

977 Catgut and other similer producta

for suture

I.L.

Rate of duty 0.65
1.00 1.00
0.037 0.15 0.075
9.50 0.075 0.075 2.00 0.35 1.00 2.50

A512 T

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VII - CHILE PART I (continued)

Chilean
Tariff Item No

Description of Products

1028 Kola nuts and nux vomica, whole or in

powder .........

....... K.L.

1032 Pastilles , comprimés , tablets ,

tabloids, pills, drops , capsules,

globules, dragées, granules, sachets

(papelillos) and wafers , containing

medicines , n.e.s.

K.L.

Ex-1055A Mixtures of chemicals intended for the

manufacture of pharmaceutical products,

including compound medicinal solutions

imported in containers holding each

more than 5 kg . net ......

..... K.G.

1056 Ex-1056

Fertilizers , phosphated , treated by alkalis or acids (superphosphates) ...
Bicalcic phosphate ....

1065 Fuses , wicks and igniters , for use in

minus ......

K.G.

Ex-1072 Mineral oil for machines , even with an admixture of other oils or substances, in containers of more than 1 kg. net . X.G.

1085 Colophony (pine rosin) and Burgundy

pitch

.....

100 K.G.

......

1087 Gums: Arabic , copal , dammar,

sandarac , lac , Sanegal , tragacanth , mastic and others n.e.s ; synthetic

resins and mucilages of fruits , such

as fruit pectine and others, for

industrial purposes

K.G.

Ex-1087 Shellac ....

K.G.

1089 Lubricating grease containing more

than 50% of mineral oil ........

K.G.

1093 Paraffin wax, melting at under 60 °C. K.G.

Rate of duty 0.50
6.80
1.50 Free Free 0.15 0.15 1.50
0.175 0.175 0.40 0.10

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A513

SCHEDULE VII - CHILE PART I (continued )

Chilean Teriff Item No.

Description of Products

1094 Paste prepared for the menufacture of

cylinders or discs for gramophones

or other similar apparatus

K.L.

1106 Prussian and ultramarine blue ......

K.G.

1126 Paints in tubes , small bottles or

small cekes , for oil or water painting,

also in the form of crayons for pastel

drawing, whether or not put up in

boxes, with or without the correspond-

ing requisites for painting or

sketching

K.L.

Ex-1130 Inks for printing

K.G.

1144 Ex-1189

Cresylic acid , mixed with sulphide of phosphorus for concentration of ores..

Iron and steel , rolled , in bars more

than 3 metres in length, including

hoops , not worked subsequently to

the rolling .....

.......

100 K.G. K.G.

Ex-1189 Ex- 1189 Ex-1189

Note : While a rate of duty lower than 0.10 per K.G. is in force for this item, this lower rate shall be applied.

Bara of iron , rounded or squared, weighing less than 30 kg. per linear metre . K.G.

Angle-irons and T-sections , weighing

less than 10 kg. per linear metre...

K.G.

Small bars of iron (steel billets)

more than 3 metres in length .......

K.G.

Note While a rete of duty lower than 0.10 ner K.G. is in force for this
item , this lower rate shall be applied.

11 . Iron and steel , rolled , in plain

sheets, rectangular, more than 1 sq.m.

in area and more than 50 cm . side ,

neither galvanized nor coated with

other metals .....

K.G.

Rate of duty 0.15 0.30
1.90 0.20 0.50 0.10
0.10 0.10 0.10
0.075

A514

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VII · CHILE PART I (continuod)

Chilean Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1194 Iron and steel , rolled , in sheets , painted, galvanized, or metal coated, also
shoots pressed on to boards of wood or other material ............ ........... K.G.

1194 A Iron and steel, rolled , in sheets and bars, cut into any shape, whether minium - coated or not , also stool pieces for axles, of any length and not lathe- turned, obtained by longating foundry ingots ........... K.G.

1194 B Iron and steal , rolled, in sheets and

bars, perforated or polished by tho

emory-whoel, the plane or the lathe,

whether minium-coated or not

K.G.

1194 C

Iron and steel , rolled , in compound

sections for buildings , such as girdors,

crossirons (tiierales) , colums ,

pillars and the like

K.G.

1197 Tin-plate, ordinary ...

K.G.

1200 1275 1279 A

Aluminium, pure or not , in bars or

sheets, n.e.5. ....

K.G.

Safety razor blades , whother or not nickled, ohromium-plated, silvered or gilt .......

for ten

Wetors, for water, illuminating gas ,
oil and other cases or liquids , except drinking water moters, mounted or not,
also their parts n.o.s. , woighing up to 500 K.H. ( of iron or steel ) ...... K.G.

1290 Bearings, pillow-blocks , bushes, boxes

or brackets for bushes , also spare

balls, rollors or bars .....................

K.G.

Rato of duty 0.30
0.10 0.15 0.20 0.075 0.15 0.16
1.10 0.75

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A515

SCHEDULE VII - CHILE PART I ( continued)

Chilean Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1293 Screws, bolts and devices on which they are fixed , washers and nuts , throaded or not, even if bolonging to unassembled machines or apparatus , provided thoy are not imported in the same package as the latter ; hooks , pluga (nudillos) and rods for
insulators imported separately from the latter ......

1330 Taps, stop- cocks and valves for any purpose or use , and their spare parts of bronzo; water jets , also sookets and connections for hoses .

1335 A

Meters: For water , illuminating cas, oil, and other gases or liquids , exoept drinking water meters , mounted or not, also thoir parts not elsewhere specified, weighing up to 500 kilogrammes (not made of iron or stoel )

1343 Machinos n.e.s. (mining) .........

1344 Apparatus n.e.s. (mining)

1345 Components and sparos , n.c.s. of machines and apparatus (mining) .

1346 Ploughs ....
1347 Machinery not elsewhere specified (agricultural) .......
1349 Vintago machines ; pumps with bronzo lining; grapo stoners , centrifugal system; cylinder erushers; hydraulic pressos , with or without bronze wine-pressos and trays; wine scrow presses ; traction sulphuring apparatus , and similar vitivinicultural apparatus ......

K.G. K.G.
K.G. K.G. K.G. K.G. K.G. K.G.
K.G.

Rate of duty
0.90 3.00
1.10 0.18 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.125
0.10

A516

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VII CHILE PART I (continued)

Chilean Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1361 Components and spares , not elsewhere

specified, of machines and apparatus

(agricultural) ...

.....

1354 Pumps (for industries and trades) ..

1365A Machinos for conveying materials or

products, n.e.s.

......

1356B

Hade-up packing , discs and rings for clutches , pistons or valves, also brake bands , made up or not , for
industrial purposes or not: - of metal, even containing up to 30% of rubber or other material in any proportion .....

1356C

Made-up packing, disos and rings for clutches , pistons or valves , also brake bands , mado up or not, for industrial purposes or not: - n.e.s.

1357 Cranes , dorrioks , winchos and other

lifting machines

........

2357A 1358

Tacklo , pulleys , nuffles , jacks and other lifting apparatus .............................
Machinery, n.e, s . (for industries and trades)

Ex- 1858

Machinery for the manufacture of oigarettes

Ex-1368 Machinery for sugar refinory ......

1359 Apparatus not elsewhere specified (for industrios and trades) .......

1360 Protective clothing for artisans and oraftsmon, n.o.s. , such as helmets, aprons , masks , glevos , wrappors of rubber for working on high-tension lines , otc . .....

Rate of duty

K.G.

0.80

I.G.

0.18

X.G.

0.125

K.G.

1.80

I.G.

1.50

X.G.

0.225

X.G.

0.25

X.G.

0.125

I.G.

0.128

X.G.

0.126

I.G.

0.25

I.G.

1.78

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A517

SCHEDULE VII - CHILE PART I (continuod)

Chilean Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Ex-1361 Components and sparos n.o.s. , of

machinery and apparatus for tho

construction and maintenance of

roads

X.G.

1362 Whetstonos and emery or carborundum

stones , mounted or not , also oil-

stones , n.c.5 . .....

K.G.

1367 Spare appliances for industrial or

other purposes which are added to

machines, apparatus or tools for

performing certain work, such as

polishing discs , drills , spindles

for weaving looms , etc. , also

accessories usod to obtain a variety

in the production thereof , such as

Jacquard cards , lino-type matrices ,

stamping moulds , eto .: of metal or

wood .......

K.G.

Ex- 1367 Matrices for gramophone records ...

Ex- 1367 Blades for hand saws

X.G.

Ex-1367 Saws of all kinds for machinos ....

K.G.

1369 Hoes , toothed hoes (azapioon ) , picks,

pick-axes and rakes , without handles

K.G.

1376 Implements and hand tools, and parts

thereof

K.G.

Ex-1376 Sioklos

X.G.

1379 Spades without handles .....

X.G.

Ex- 1383 Steam generating boilers or hoaters

of water under pressure , including

super-heaters and economisers:

weighing more than 3,000 kg.gross

K.G.

Ex- 1383 Radiators and other similar apparatus,

n.e.s. for central heating and refrig-

oration,weighing moro than 75 kg.net

L.G.

0.30 0.35
0.35 Free 0.025 0.125 0.25 0.15 0.15 0.25
0.25 0.16

A518

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VII CHILE PART I (continued)

Chilean Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1386 Belts or bands , whether or not imported

with their corresponding machines, and

belt thongs , for transmissions , of

leather

X.G.

1.50

1387 Belts or bands , whether or not imported

with their corresponding machines, and

belt thongs, for transmissions ; n...... I.G.

1.10

1388 Belts or bands , whether or not imported

with their corresponding machines, and

belt thongs, of leather, rubber or

textile materials, for conveyor mohines K.G.

0.20

1390 Engines (motors) , including vehicle

engines , explosion or combustion .............. X.G.

0.18

1390 Motors (engines ) for fishing craft .... X.G.

0.06

Ex- 1395 Engines (motors) , including vehicle

engines, electric , of more than 5 h.p.. X.G.

0.18

1396 Components and spare parts of boilers ,

engines (motors ) and turbines ......

X.G.

0.45

1898 Tire for all purposes, covered with

insulating materials or with materials

other than silk ........

X.G.

0.15

1401 Radio valves and rectifiers, for all

purposes

I.G.

3.80

1402 Apparatus for telephone and telegraph

plants, with wire or not , not elsewhere

specified ......

I.G.

0.25

1406 Carbons and electrodes ....

X.G.

0.15

1408 Dynamos, alternators, converters and

other machines n.e.s. ...............................

I.O.

0.16

Ex- 1410 Transformers of more than 200 k.w.a,

I.G.

0.26

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A519

SCHEDULE VII CHILE PART I ( continued)

Chilean Tariff Item No

Description of Products

1411 Components and spare parts , n.e.s. ,

for machinery and apparatus of Group

No. 63 ( electric)

K.G.

1414 Electricity meters and other electricity measuring apparatus , also their spares K.G.

Ex-1415 Accumulators, weighing more than

100 kg. net .....

X.G.

1425 Freight cars for temporary or portable railways (Decauville's and

other systems) , also for aerial railways

(andariveles) , including hoppers imported separately; hand-cars (volandag) and

light trucks for repairs of the roadbed

(camionetas) , also cars with or without

motor, for the erection of aerial

railway lines ...

X.G.

1429 Semaphores and signalling materials,

n.8.8 .

K.G.

1430 Locomotives and their tenders, steam

or electric ......

K.G.

1432 Rails for railways , cable railways,

cranes, etc. , including rack rails,

whether perforated or not

K.G.

1433 Wheels, axles and tyres, each weighing

more than 50 kg . net . ....

K.G.

1439 Components and spare parts, n.e.s. , of

machinery and apparatus ( railways and

tramways) ........

..... X.G.

1449 Dredgers, floating ......

K.G.

1462 Aircraft and parts thereof n.e.s. ... X.G.

Automobiles, n.e.s. , new or used, for conveying passengers and goods , assembled or not : Ex-1463 Weighing from 501 to 1000 kg. each .... K.N.

Rate of duty
0.45 1.10 0.25
0.15 0.30 0.15 0.0375 0.075 0.45 0.075 0.075
0.80

A520

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VII · CHILE PART I (continued)

Chilean Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Ex-1463 Weighing from 1001 to 1500 kg. each ... K.N.

Ex-1464/69 Weighing more than 1500 kg. each

K.N.

Ex-1463/69 Trucks, vans and buses

K.N.

Ex-1463/69 Jeeps and agri-jeeps ....

X.N.

Ex-1463/69 Ambulances .......

Note: The tax of 15% on passenger vehicles will be imposed only on vehicles with a c.i.f. value greater than 1500 American dollars .

1471 Ex-1475
1476

Horns and other alarm apparatus ....... K.G.
Motor-driven vehicles for the conveyance and stowage of goods ...... X.G.
Freight vehicles , without motors ( engines) , to be drawn by trucks or tractors ..................... K.G.

Ex-1476 Special appliances for attachment to

trucks to increase their carrying

capacity

.....

K.G.

1480 Ex- 1480

Chassis of automobiles , assembled or

not; the chassis is deemed to comprise

the engine (motor ) , with its ignition

circuit, and lubrication and cooling

systems , etc ; the framework, the control,

lighting, transmission and running gear;

the adjuncts thereof, such as wind shields ,

bumpers, running boards , zócalos, mudguards ,

dashboards , spare-wheels , dumping

mechanisms , etc : driven by gasoline or

petroleum motors

..K.G.

Tractors ......

K.N.

1482 Axles with or without bushings or nuts .. X.G.

Rate of duty 1.10 2.10 0.10 0.025 Free
0.50 0.20 0.20 0.20
0.075 0.05 0.20

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A521

SCHEDULE VII - CHILE PART I (continued)

Chilean Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1483 Lights for vehicles , including

movable searchlights ....

I.L.

1407 Promatic tyres , for agricultural mohines, mohines for the constructiom and maintenance of roads and for tractors , with an external diameter of more than

1 metre and with a normal maximum

inflation pressure of 40 lbs . per

square inch

I.G.

1490 Springs, except those called shook

absorbers for automobiles ........

I.G.

1492 Vehicle components and spares n.e.s.

K.G.

1494 Vitreous compositions for fire

enamelling or for colouring glass ..

K.G.

1497 Asbestos or amianthus , prepared in

fibrous, pasty or powdery condition , whether or not mixed with other

substances .....

K.G.

1498 Asbestos or amianthus, prepared, wrought, into any unspecified shape , with or without parts of base metal, rubbor or textile materials , for the manufacture of packing .....
1562 Bricks, blooks , prisms of any shape; tiles, vis . slabs less than 1 square metre in area, and other similar articles: fireproof

X.G. 100 I.G.

1674 Glass paper and emery paper or emery

cloth ............. .

...

X.G.

Ex-1683 Cut pieces or bands of leather, prepared for hats and oaps (hat-leathers) I.L.

1786 Precious stones and pearls, unset or

strung, with or without clasp:

brilliants, diamonds , rubies , emeralds ,

sapphires and pearls

Gr.I.

2.50
0.50 0.225 0.40 0.075 0.075
1.10 3.80 0.15 15.00 20.00

A522

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VII - CHILE PART I (continued)

Chilean Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1804 1808A 1809
1816 1822 1828 1855 1856 1857 1867
Ex- 1934

Prismatic binocular glasses .......

X-ray and ultra-violet- ray apparatus,
and apparatus for the application of galvanio, Faradic, thermic currents, eto. , n.e.a.

Scales, steelyards , weighing machines and dynamo- tors ( including the corresponding weights) , automatio, n.... , strength exceeding 2 but not exceeding 50 kg. , including those of a higher strength for weighing persons .....

Biographs, cinemtographs and other

similar apparatus , and unspecified parts

thereof ......

.....

Artificial teeth, eyes and eardrums

Machines and apparatus for pure or applied sciences, not elsewhere specified, weighing up to 20 kg.net

Photographic cameras, including those

for taking cinematograph films, also

parts thereof

...

Calculating machines and apparatus:
arithmometers , eto. , also parts thereof ... ............... ..

Typewriters and writing apparatus , and parts thereof , n.e.8. .........

Thermometers for all purposes and other

measuring apparatus , n.e.s. , such as

barometers, hygrometers, pluviometers,

pyrometers, ato . , and also spare

parts thereof ......

........

Balls for playing lawn bowls .........

each I.G.
I.G. X.G. I.L. I.L. K.L. I.G. I.G.
I.L.

35,00 0.75
2.00 3.80 30.00 2.20 3.80 8.00 1.50
2.20 Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A523

SCHEDULE VII · CHILE PART I (ooncluded)

Chilean Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Ex- 1936 Refrigerators for domestic use, for the preservation of foodstuffs , up to 10 cubic feet in capacity ............ I.G.
1943 Fishing tackle , such as hooks, harpoons , rods, floats, loads, nots and other artiales

Rate of duty 0.50 Free

General Observations
The duties included in the present Schedule VII are expressed in Chilean gold pesos of 0.183057 grammes fine geld.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A525

SCHEDULE VIII - REPUBLIC OF CHINA This Schedule is authentie only in the English language.
PART I Most Favoured Nation Tariff

China's Tariff and Code Number. Ex 71/00
100/11-42 104/10-20
40-50
104/30
106/00 107/00
112/11 112/12 Ex 112/20 Ex 112/40
Ex 112/40 113/10
Ex 113/20

Description of Products
Cotton, Raw, having a staple of inch or more in length
Yarn and Thread, of Flax, Ramie , Hemp, and/or Jute, mixed or not mixed with Cotton
Flax Piece Goods , White , Plain, mixed or not mixed with Cotton , weighing not more than 170 grammes per square metre, and having more than 50 threads but not more than 80 threads in a square centimetre in warp and weft
Embroidery Linen, White, Plain, of the above descriptions (including Pure Linen Piece Goods and Flax and Cotton Mixture Piece Goods , the flax content of which is not less than 40 per cent of their total weight, ordinarily classifiable under Tariff heading No. 105 imported under bond for embroidering or similar hand manufacture)
Hessian Cloth
Hemp Bags and Hessian Eags , New
Wool , Sheep's, Goats ' and Camels' (including Carded or Combed) : -
Sheep's, Greasy
Sheep's, Scoured
Goats' (Greasy or Sooured)
Sheep's, Carded or Combed (including Wool Tops and Noils of counts of, and not finer than , 56's)
Sheep's, Tops and Noils, of counts finer than 56's
Waste Wool, Sheep's and Goats' (including Waste Wool mixed with any other fibres except Silk)

Rate of Duty 10% 15%
71%
5% 121 15%
71% 77%
10% 8% 5%

95347 O 49- pt. 5- -34

A526

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VIII · REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART I (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number 136/00
137/10-30
140/10 140/20 140/50 147/10
149/00 150/00 151/20 161/00 163/00 164/00 166/00 169/00 171/00 173/00

Description of Products
Imitation Gold or Silver Thread, on Silk, pure or mixed Lace , Trimmings , Embroidered Goods , and all other materials used for decorative or ornamental purposes; and all products made wholly thereof, on Silk, pure or mixed
Silk Velvets , Plushes , and all other Pile Cloths , pure or mixed; of Pure Natural Silk
of Pure Artificial Silk of Natural Silk and Artificial Silk
Aluminium Foil , Plain, Not Interleaved with Paper
Aluminium Grains , Ingots , and Slabs Aluminium Sheets and Plates
Aluminium, Others (Wire excepted) Brass and Yellow Metal : Tubes Brass and Yellow Metal: Others Copper Bars and Rods Copper Ingots and Slabs Copper Sheets and Plates Copper Tubes
Copper Wire Rope

Rate of Duty
50%
70%
70% 70% 70% 20% 5% 15% 12%1 121% 17 % 10% 10% 10% 121% 15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A527

SCHEDULE VIII REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART 1 (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number
175/10
176/00 179,00 181/00 182/00 186/10-30 187/00
188/00
191/10-20 192/00 195/00 196/00 199/00 200/10-20
203/10-20 204/10-20

Description of Products
Iron and Steel , Ungalvanized (not including Bamboo , Spring, Tool , and Alloy Steel ) : Anvils , Swage-blocks , Anchors and
parts of, and Forgings , each weighing in every case 11.5 kg. or over Billets , Blooms, Ingots, Slabs and Sheet-bars
Chains, New, and parts of
Crossings and Turn-tables for Railways
Hoops
Pipes , Tubes, and Pipe and Tube Fittings
Plate Cuttings , of non-uniform size (including scrap lots of mixed dimensions , irrespective of size, and Croppings of Channels , Tees and Angles)
Rails (including Steel Sleepers , Fishplates , Spikes , Bolts , and Nuts for use with the Rails)
Sheets and Plates , 3.2 mm . thick or more
Sheets and Plates , under 3.2 mm. thick
Tinned Plates , Decorated
Tinned Plates , Plain Wire
Others
Iron and Steel , Galvanized: Pipes, Tubes , and Pipe and Tube Fittings
Sheets , Corrugated or Plain

Rate of Duty
20% 15% 12 % 75% 12 171%
10%
7 12% 12 200 15% 121% 15%
17 15%

A528

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VIII - REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART I (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number 205/00 207/30
207/51 209/10-20
211/00 212/00 213/10-30 214/00
218/00 225/00 236/10-20 237/00 Ex 240/20 244/00

Description of Products
Wire
Iron and Steel , Galvanized or Ungalvanized , Used Hoops and Hoop Ends or Cuttings (including scrap lots of mixed dimensions, irrespective of size)
Iron and Steel , Galvanized , Wire Shorts
Iron and Steel , Galvanized or Ungalvanized , Wire Rope, New (with or without fibre core)
Bamboo Steel
Spring Steel
Tool Steel ( including High- speed Steel ) and Alloy or Special Steel
Iron or Steel Plates or Sheets, Angles, Channels , Tees , Joists , Girders , and other Structural Sections or Building Forms of Iron or Steel , if drilled , punched , assembled , fitted , or fabricated for use, or otherwise advanced beyond hammering , rolling or casting
Lead Pigs or Bars
Nickel
Zinc Powder and Spelter
Zinc Sheets ( including Perforated) , Plates, and Boiler Plates
Cobalt , Tantale, Cadmium, Ferrosilicon, and Ferrochrome
Agricultural Machinery, and parts thereof

Rate of Duty 121%
121% 121%
15% 15% 121% 121%
15% 221% 10% 15% 20% 15% 776

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A529

SCHEDULE VIII - REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART I (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number
245/41-55
245/61-80 246/06-60 247/10-40
248/11-29
249/00 250/11-15 251/11-45

Description of Products
Electrical Machinery for Power Generating and Transmission , such as Dynamos , Motors , Transformers , Converters , etc. , and parts thereof: -
(a) Dynamos and Motors not over 20kilowatt capacity, and Transformers not over 200 -kilovolt-ampere oapacity and parts or accessories thereof
(b) Others
Machine Tools , such as Lathes , Planers, Drill Presses , etc. , and parts thereof
Machine Shop Tools, such as Cutters, Drills , Reamers , eto. ( including Pneumatic and Electrically Operated Tools) , and Hand Tools made wholly or chiefly of metal
Prime Movers , i. e. , Gas Engines , Oil Engines , Steam Engines , Hydraulic Turbines , Steam Turbines, Turbogenerator Sets , and other Prime Movers, combined with Generators or not , and parts thereof
Steam Boilers , Economisers , Superheaters, Mechanical Stokers , and other Boilerroom Accessories , and parts thereof
Sewing Machines , and parts or accessories thereof
Typewriters , Automatic Sales Machines , Calculating Machines , Cash Registers , Copy Presses , Cheque Perforators , Dating Machines , Duplicating Machines, Numbering Machines , and similar Office Machines for Clerical or Accounting Purposes , and parts thereof

Rate of Duty
121% 10% 7%1 77%
77% 7% 10%
17%1

A530

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VIII REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART I (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number
252/10 Ex 252/20
252/31-32 252/85
252/90 253/10-50 254/00
256/10 256/15 256/20 256/25 256/40 256/45
256/30 256/35

Description of Products
kachinery, n.o.p.f. , and parts thereof: -
Pumping and Pumps, and parts
Printing Machinery
Textile Machinery, and parts
Refrigerators and Refrigerating Equipment , Industrial , including parts and accessories thereof, n.o.p.f.
Others, including Dairy Machinery
Aeroplanes , Hydroplanes , and all other Flying Machines and parts thereof
Fire Engines , Hydrants , and other Fire-extinguishing Appliances , irrespective of propclling power (including Hand Chemical Fire Extinguishers) , and parts thereof
Vehicles , Motor:-
(a) Motor Tractors , Motor Trailers , Motor Passenger Vehicles with seats for not less than 12 passengers , Motor Trucks over 1 metric ton carrying capacity , and Chassis for any of the above
(b) Others ( including Motor-cars, Motor-cycles , etc. ) , assembled or in parts; Chassis, and Bodies with metal parts assembled for any of the abovc : -
Trucks not over 1 metric ton carrying capacity
Chassis for Trucks not over 1 metric ton carrying capacity

Rate of Duty 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% 5%
5%
15%
25% 25%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A531

SCHEDULE VIII · REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART I (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number 256/50 256/55 256/60 256/65
256/70 256/75
257/10 257/21-22 Ex 260/10 Ex 262/00

Description of Products

Motor-cars, n.o.p.f.

Chassis for Motor-cars , n.o.p.f. Motor Cycles

Motor Vehicles , n.o.p.f.

(o) Parts and Accessories (except Tyres ) : -

(1) For Motor Oyoles

(2) Others (vide Note below)

Note:

Front Wheels , Rear Wheels, Front Springs , Rear Springs , Front Axles , Rear Axles , Frames , Radiators , Propelling Shafts, Motive Power, and Unassembled Parts of Bodies are dutiable at
the above rate when packed separately; otherwise they shall be subject to a duty of 30 per cent.

Railway and Tramway Supplies: -

(a) Locomotives and Tenders

(b) Railway or Tramway Carriages or Wagons

Office Filing Cabinets , and Systems as
Kardex, etc. , made wholly or chiefly of metal

Radiators , Steam Heaters , Oil-burning and Spirit-burning Heating Stoves , and similar appliances and parts thereof

Rate of Duty 30% 30% 30% 30% 25% 15%
5% 5% 30% 25%

A532

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VIII - REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART I (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number
264/35 264/36 Ex 264/40 265/10 265/20 268/10 270/20
271/11
271/12

Description of Products
Electric Cookers , Fans , Flash-lights , Irons, Lampware , Radiators , Toasters, and other similar Electric Appliances , and parts thereof; -
Refrigerators , Electric , Household, complete
Parts or Accessories of Electric Household Refrigerators, n.o.p.f.
Others (Electric Bells, Hot-plates , and Smoothing Irons and parts or acccssories thereof excepted)
Electrio Accumulators or Batteries and parts thereof
Dry Cells and Parts thereof
Electric Meters
Strong-room and Vault Doors
Telephonic and Telegraphic Instruments , and parts thereof: (a) Radio Sets and parts:
(1) Hard Rubber or Composition Dials, Litzendraft Wire , Grid Leak, Microphones , Headphones, Loud Speakers and Loud Speaker Units , Crystals , Transmitting Vacuum Tubes, Intervalve Audio Frequency Transformers , and Receiving and Transmitting Condensers of all kinds
(2 ) Buzzers , Receiving Vacuum Tubes, A. B. C. Battery Eliminators , Sockets , Jacks , Plugs , Lugs and Tips , Binding Posts , Name-plates , and Brackets

Rate of Duty
25% 25% 25% 25% 25% 10% 25%
15%
15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A533

SCHEDULE VIII REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART I (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number 271/14-15
286/10-20 299/00 305/00 307/00 309/10 311/11-23 313/10-20 323/00
324/00 325/00
326/00
327/10 330/00 334/42
357/00 Ex 358/20 Ex 358/30 Ex 360/10
362/10-20
372/00

Description of Products
(3) Switches , Lightning Arresters, Keys , Coils , and Complete Radio Sets and Units
Fish Maws
Asparagus ( in cans or bottles) Butter Cheese Cocoa Beans Coffee Currants and Raisins
Milk and Cream, Evaporated or Sterilized
Milk, Condensed
Milk Food (including Dried Milk, Lactogen, Glaxo, etc. ) Oil, Cod-Liver (including Oil , Fish Liver, Liquid , Medioinal) Oil , Olive , in bulk Sausages, Dried
Foodstuffs , n.o.p.f. , Others: Canned or in any other packing Flour, Wheat Oatmeal
Rolled Oats and Groats Prunes , Dried Ginseng (including Board, Roots and Cuttings) Malt

Rate of Duty
25% 25% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 20%
20% 20%
20%
10% 25% 30%
35% 15% 25% 25% 20%
30% 121%

A534

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VIII - REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART I (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number Ex 373/00 Ex 391/00 392/10
Ex 394/20
395/00 396/00 402/10 Ex 403/00 404/00 405/10-20
408/10-20
409/00 410/00 413/10-20 414/10-20 415/10-20 416/10-20
417/00 Ex 419/10

Description of Products
Quinine Bark
Seeds, Grass and Clover
Spices and Condiments , n.o.p.f. , not prepared, in bulk
Vegetables , Fresh , Dried , Prepared , and Salted : in cans or bottles Wheat
Molasses
Lactose (Milk Sugar) Champagne
Other Sparkling Wines Still Wines , Red or White , exclusively the produce of the natural fermentation of Grapes ( not including Vins de Liqueur) Vins do Liqueur other than Port and Marsala (viz. , Madeira , Malaga, Sherry, etc. ) Vermouth, Byrrh and Quinquina Vermouth, in bulk
Brandy and Cognac Whisky Gin
Rum (not including Rum in bulk for industrial uses)
Liqueurs Angostura Bitters

Rate of Duty
71% 171%
20%
25% 15% 77% 40% 70% 70%
80%
80% 80% 80% 70% 80% 80%
80% 70% 80%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A535

SCHEDULE VIII REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART I (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number 423/10-20 425/10 429/00 Ex 434/20 436/00 439/00
442/00 445/00 451/10
Ex 452/00
459/00 462/00 467/00 472/00 473/00 475/00 Ex 480/40
Ex 481/10 481/50
Ex 481/70

Description of Products
Tobacco, Leaf Tobacco, Stalk Acid, Carbolic Alcohol , Denatured
Alumina, Sulphate of Ammonia, Chloride of ( i.a , Sal Ammoniac) Barium, Carbonate of Borax, Crude or Refined Glycerine, in packages of not less than 13 kg. each Insecticides and Disinfectants (excluding Mosquito Smudges) Potash, Chlorate of Rum for industrial uses Soda , Bichromate of
Soda, Hydrosulphite of Soda, Nitrate of ( Chile Saltpetre) Soda, Silicate of Radium Medicines , Drugs and Medicinal Substances, Compounds and Preparations , n.o.p.f.:-
Acetylsalicylic Acid (in powder form) Proprietary Medicines Capsulated Fish Liver Oils

Rate of Duty
10 % 15% 15% 35% 10%
10% 10% 10%
121%
22 % 5% 15% 10% 121%5 71% 20% 15%
25% 25% 20%

A536

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VIII REPUBLIC OF CHINA

PART I (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number Ex 481/70
Ex 481/70
482/00
483/00 487/00 488/00 491/00 498/11-25 499/00 500/00 501/10-20 511/13 Ex 511/20 513/00 517/21 517/32 518/20 518/30 518/40 518/50 Ex 518/60

Description of Products
Anti-biotics, such as Penicillin , Penicillin Products , Streptomycin, etc. Others ( excluding Capsulated Fish Liver Oils, and Anti-biotics, such as Penicillin , Penicillin Products , Streptomycin , etc. ) Aniline Dyes , and other Coal Tar Dyes, n.o.p.f. Bark , Mangrove Bronze Powder
Carbon Black ( i.e. Lampblack) Cobalt , Oxide of Indigo, Artificial Indigo , Dried , Natural Indigo, Liquid, Natural Inks of all kinds Wattle Extract
Tanning Extract from Eucalyptus Wood Ultramarine Lithophone Wattle Bark Enamels Paints Polishes Varnishes Nitrocellulose (Pyroxylin) Lacquers

Rate of Duty
20%
25%
35% 10% 15% 15% 15% 35% 35% 35% 20% 121% 15% 15% 15% 121% 20% 20% 20% 20% 20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A537

SCHEDULE VILI - REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART I (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number 521/00 522/00 526/00 527/10-20 534/10 538/00 539/00 Ex 541/11
Ex 541/11-13
Ex 541/32 Ex 541/32
542/00
544/10 544/20

Description of Products
Grease, Lubricating, wholly or partly mineral
Gum Arabic
Resin
Shellac and Button Lao
Oil, Lubricating , wholly or partly of mineral origin
Wax, Bees , Yellow
Wax, Paraffin
Essential Oils , Natural , of Citronella; Niaouli (Gomenol); nang-Yang; Lemon-grass; Vetiver; Rose Geranium; Gardenia; Clove ; Rosewood; Orange; Lemon; and Lavender
Essences , Concentrates , Extracts or Mixtures of Flavouring Materials, both Natural and/or Synthetic, in Liquid or Dry Form, for the preparation of Nonalcoholic beverages · no sweetening agent having been added
Hardened Fat of Whale Oil
Tallow, Animal
Books, Printed or Manuscript , Bound or Unbound (not including Note-books , Ledgers , and other office , school and private stationery)
Newspapers and Periodicals: -
(a) old (fit only for packing or remanufacture)
(b) Others

Rate of Duty
10% 10% 15% 15% 121% 10% 121%
15%
15% 15% 15%
Free
71% Free

A538

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VIII · REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART I (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number 549/20 Ex 555/10
556/11-19
559/00 Ex 561/15
562/11-22 563/00 Ex 565/11-21
567/31-56 567/71-96 Ex 582/00 Ex 583/00

Description of Products
Paper, Document and Document Bond
Paper, Tissue , free of Mechanical Wood Pulp (excluding Copying and Manifold Paper)
Paper, Writing and/or Printing, Glazed or Unglazed, White or Coloured, Plain or Laid (including Antique Wove, Uncoated Art Printing Paper, and the like) , mo.p.f. , Free of Mechanical Wood Pulp
Wood Pulp, Chemical
Adding Machine and Cash Register Papers; Files, Folders, Index Cards, and similar Paper Office Forms and Supplies classifiable as Paperware; Filter Paper out to size ; Litmus Paper in Booklets; Stencils; Toilet Paper in small rolls; Paper Napkins, Towels, Plates , Cups, Handkerchiefs and Sippers; Gummed Stickers and Tapes; and Labels other than those for Matchmarnufacturing
Hides
Leather , Belting
Leather, n.o.p.f.: Upper Leather of Cattle, Calf , Kip, Goat and Kid; and Patent Leather
Skins (Furs): -
(a) Undressed
(b) Dressed and/or Dyed
Timber, Ordinary, Rough Hewn: Softwood
Timber, Ordinary, Sawn: Hardwood: Brush Box, Ironbark and Tallow Wood

Rate of Duty 25% 25% 25% 5%
30%
121%7 20%

* **

*

***

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A539

SCHEDULE VIII - REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART I (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number 584/00 Ex 586/10-20
588/00 Ex 590/10 Ex 593/10
593/40 599/10-18 600/32 Ex 600/55
601/30 601/40 601/45 601/50 601/62 605/20 Ex 609/20

Description of Products
Timber, Ordinary, Sawn : Softwood Timber, Ordinary, Manufactured
(including any process further than simple sawing, but not including Masts and Spars): Softwood, planed Railway Sleepers Jarrah Paving Blocks
Coir, Fibre and Yarn Coir Matting
Straw, Panama Straw, etc. Wood, Sandal, other than Indian
Sugar Wood (Myoporum Platycarpum) Woodware of all kinds and other Manufactures of Wood, n.o.p.f.: -
Sandal, Dust
Shavings (for Match-manufacturing) Shooks (for making Casks and Cases) Splints (for Match-manufacturing) Plywood
Asphalt Enamelled Sanitary Ironware (such as Bath Tubs, Lavatory Ware, etc. ) with or without fittings , and other Enamelled Household Ironware

Rate of Duty 20%
20% 10% 20% 2016 20% 121% 20% 20%
20% 15% 15% 15% 20% 10%
20%

A540

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VIII - REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART I (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number
615/11
615/21 620/10-20 621/10 Ex 626/20
Ex 626/60 628/10-80
629/30 629/40 629/60-70 630/10 631/00 632/11-12
641/11

Description of Products

Glassware (not including Chemical and other Scientific Glassware) : -

Crystal or Semi-Crystal Ware: Cut and/or Polished (including those combined with Precious Metal or Metals or coated with Precious Metals)
Bottles, Empty
Emery and Glass Powder
Hire-bricks

Earthenware and Potteryware for industrial and sanitary purposes

Note:

The term " Potteryware" includes Chinaware and Porcelainware for industrial and sanitary purposes

Plumbago

Animals, Living Asbestos and Manufactures thereof; -

Sheets or Packings, Woven Sheets or Packings , Compressed

Boiler Composition and other Products

Medicinal , Surgical and Dental Instruments and parts

Building Materials , n.o. p. f.

Buttons, Metal ( not including those made of, or plated with, precious Metals)

Complete Radio-Gramophone Combinations

Rate of Duty
221% 25% 5% 10% 20%
121% 71% 15% 15% 15% 10% 20% 25% 30%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A541

SCHEDULE VIII - REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART I (Continued)

China's Tariff and Code Number Ex 641/20
644/42
644/43
644/51
647/10-20
648/10-20 649/10 Ex 655/20 656/11-13 656/31-39 Ex 656/40 Ex 658/20

Description of Products
Parts and Accessories of above
India-rubber and Gutta-percha, and Manufactures thereof: Others: -
Pneumatic Tyres for Motor Vehicles , containing natural and/or synthetic Rubber
Inner Tubes for Motor Vehicles , containing natural and/or synthetic Rubber
Other Manufactures , n.o.p.f. , containing natural and/or synthetic Rubber
Leather, Imitation, and Oilcloth (not including Oilcloth for Flooring), and Manufactures thereof; -
(a) Leather, Imitation, and Oilcloth
(b) Manufactures of Imitation Leather and Oilcloth
Linoleum and other Floor Coverings, n. o. p.f.
Machine Belting, other than those made of Rubber
Perfumery, Alcoholio
Photographic and Cinematographic Products , Apparatus and Materials of all kinds (except Chemicals and Developed Cinematographic Films)
Precious and Semi-precious Stones , Imitation: Others (including Manufactures thereof)

Rate of Duty 30%
20% 20% 25%
25% 30% 30% 15% 35%
25% 30%

95347 O 49 -pt . 5-35

A542

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE VIII REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART I (Concluded)

China's Tariff and Code Number 664/21-22
Bx 672/75

Description of Products
Synthetic Resins and other Plastics: Other than Manufactures thereof, n.o.p.f. (including Lumps , Bands, Bars, Rods, Plates , Sheets, Tubes , Powder, etc. , i.e. , not as finished articles)
Crown Corks, metal , complete with oork insert

Rate of Duty
20% 20%

NOTE
The Code Numbers given herein refer to those appearing in the Guide to the Import Tariff and Classification of Returns, Revised Edition , July, 1940.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A543

China's
Tariff and Code Number

SCHEDULE VIII REPUBLIC OF CHINA PART II
Preferential Tariff
Description of Products

NIL

Rate of Duty

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A545

SCHEDULE IX · CUBA (This schedule is authentic only in the English language)
PART I Most-Favored-Nation Tariff

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

+

3 34
4-A 4-B 7 7-D
10 10-D
11 11-0 11-D
21-7

GROUP 1 . STONES AND EARTHS EMPLOYED IN BUILDING, ARTS AND MANUFACTURES,
Earths employed in the arts and in mami)-- facturing, and manufactures of gypsum :
Infusorial earths (diatomeas ) known as "Kieselguhr" , "Filtercel " , etc. , used in refining sugar.
GROUP 2. COAL, SHALES , BITUMENS AND THEIR DERIVATIVES .
Coal and oalte:
Coal .
Coke, including petroleum coke .
Derivatives of petroleum;
Special naphthas and volatile solvents for the manufacture of paints and varnishes.
GROUP 4. CRYSTAL AND GLASS.
Common or ordinary glass :
Articles of adornment or fancy articles adaptable to lamps manufactured in Cuba which are of the technical -scientificindustrial nature of ordinary glass.
Ordinary colorless or artificially colored glass :
In ornaments or fancy articles.
Glass utensils and apparatus for laboratories and scientific uses in general , flat or curved, plain or engraved , solid or hollow, except ampules.
Ampules .

Rate of duty Specific duty in Cuban pesos)
Free Free not negotiated
4.71 per 100 Kgs. 13.00 per 100 Kgs. not negotiated not negotiated

A546

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX · CUSA Part I (continued )

Cuban Tariff Item
Numbor 12 12-3 12-D 15 15-7 15-G
21 21 -B
47 47-B
47-2 47-P 48
48-A 48-B

Description of Products
Crystal : In ornaments and fancy articles of all kinds not specifically classificd.
Imitations of pearls, fine or precious stones and enamels.
Incandescent electric lamps:
Sealed beam headlight units for automobiles, trucks, motorcycles , etc. Fluorescent electric lamps.
GROUP 5. ARTICLES OF CLAY, CELENT STONEARE , FO CELAIN 'ID ANALOGOUS MATERIALS.
All classes of porco in articles not elsewhere specified:
Painted, gilded , or with ornaments in relief.
GROUP 3. WROUGHT ON ND STEEL .
Tools and implements not constituting apparatus: Plows, hoes, sickles , soythes, " machetes" and knives for agricultural labrs exclusively. NOTE: The Government of the Republic of Cuba reserves the right to impose an import duty on animal-dram plows , hillers, cultivators and similar implements.
Fish-hooks . Other tools and implements.
In screws, nuts, bolts , washers and rivets, nails , meat-hooks, teaks , brads and other articles not specified in other Items : Nails and brads made of wire.
Nails of wrought iron or steel.

Rate of duty
0.25 por Kg. ..11 por Xg. 30,. ad valorem 30. ad valorom
9.00 per 100 Kgs.
Free
2.40 per 100 Kgs. not negotiated not negotiated 2.00 per 100 Kgs.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A547

SCHEDULE IX · CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 48-0 48-D 56 56-A 56-B 56-C 55-D 58 58-C 50-D
62 62-D 66 66-A 66-B 66-0

8

Description of Products
Rivets.
Those not covered by the orcoeding letters. Hamufactures of tinplate :
Crown oaps for containers of all kinds not painted , japanned , printed or lithographed. Crown caps for containers of all kinds when painted, Japanned , printed or lithographed. Other articles of all kinds not painted , japanned, printed or lithographed. Other articles of all kinds then painted, Japanned, printed or lithographed. Beds and other articles of fine manufacture:
Enamelled kitchenware made of iron.
In articles of all kinds not specifically classified, including ice boxes, metal office furniture , filing cabinets , safes and cash boxes.
GROUP 4. COPPE AD ITS LLOYS OF ORDINARY METALS (BRASS , ONE, ETC. ) .
Rolled in plates and in powder:
In powder, when imported by manufacturers themselves for the production of paints.
Pipe, fire plates, pieces used in boilermaking, partly worked, and bearings:
Pipe and fire plates (plates for "hogares" ) ,
Pieces used in boiler-making, partly worked. Bearings .

Rate of duty 3.125 per 100 Kgs. not negotiated
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated 4.25 per 100 Kgs.
not negotiated
2.10 per 100 Kgs.
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated

A548

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number
72 72-B 72-0 72-D 72-E 72-7 72-G 73 73-0
73-D
73-5 73-P
73-G 73-H
73-1

75

Description of Products
GROUP 5. OTHER ORDINARY METALS AND THEI ALLOYS .
Nickel , aluminum and their alloys:
In bars, plates and wire.
In powder. In pipe. Aluminum hammered into fine leaves.
Aluminum harmered into fine leaves, with lithographic impressions , In other articles.
Tin and its alloys (Britannia metal ) :
In pipe, and in containers for pastes, soaps and for other industrial uses, not printed , engraved or lithographed.
The same articles included in the previous letter when printed, engraved or lithographed .
Hammered into fine loaves (tinfoil).
Hammered into fine leaves (tinfoil ), bronzed , with printing or lithographed, with any number of impressions.
Capa for bottles and other containers for industries; plain or embossed.
Caps for bottles and other containers for industries , bronzed , with printing or lithographed, with any number of impressions.
In other articles.

Bate of duty
4.00 per 100 Ks. 2.00 par 100 Kgs. not negotiated 7.00 per 100 Kgs. not negotiated not negotiated
8.56 per 100 X. 10.06 per 100 % . not negotiate not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A549

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number
78 78-C
78-
82 82-A 82-B 83
83-A 89 89-A 89-B
94 94-
94-3

883

33 885

Description of Products
GROUP 1. SIPPLE DRUGS .
Resins and guns:
Rubber (coagulated latex, whether or not it is smoked , washed or purified) , synthetic rubber and gutta paroha, crude , in lurps or sheets not vulcanized.
Vulcanized rubber, synthetic rubber and guttercha, smooth, cor.ugated or grooved, in rulls or sheets , imported as raw material for the manufacture of articles.
Products of the vegetable kingdom:
Hops . Halt.
Products of the animal kingdon , employed in pharmacy and in chemical industries, not specifically classified, and boneblack:
Animal carbon or boneblack.
Varnishes :
Varnishes prepared without pigments and not specifically classified.
Varnishes of pyroxylin.
GROUP 3. CHEMICAL AND HARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS .
Oxides and oxhydrates: Of ammonia, soda, potash and other caustic and barilla alkalis , including anhydrous armonia, with the exception of caustio soda and soda ash.
Caustic soda and soda ash.

Rate of duty
not negotiated not negotiated 1.00 per 100 Kgs. 0.25 per 100 Kgs. Free not negotiated not negotiated
not negotiated 0.57 per 100 Kgs.

A550

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUDA Part I ( dontinued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 95 95-D
97 97-A 98
98-H
99 100 100-A 100-B 100-C
100-E

60

Description of Products
Inorganic salts :
Sulphate of ammonia; sulphate of aluminum; phosphates and superphosphates of lime, nitrates of potash and of soda; sulphate of potash, muriate nr chloride of potassium, not above 97 pure , and monosarmonium phosphate.
Alkaloids and their salts ; and chlorides of gold , silver and platimma:
Quinine, sulphate and bisulphate and all alkaloids or salts derived from cinchona bark, except: quinine pills.
Chemical products not specifically clas sified ; acetone and wood alcohol and scale-removers :
Asphalt cements and putties , whether or not containing asbestos, for roof oonstruction or repairs, and for waterproofing work in general,
Pills, including those of quinine, capsules, medicinal lozenges and similar articles,
Pharmaceutical products and insecticides not specifically alassified:
Constituting pharmaceutical specialties or those known as patent medicines,
Biological and apotherapoutical products, in any form.
Anti -toxins, vaccines , virus, serums , baoterines, and antibactorinos, for therapeutical purposes.
Simple or compound insecticides, suitable for agriculture.

Rate of duty
Free Free
not negotiated 0.28 per Xg. 0.20 per Kg. 0.25 per Kg. Free Froe

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A551

SCHEDULE I OUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number
102 102-A
102-C 102-E
106 106 -E 106-F 106-G 106-H
108 108-A 108-B 108-C

Description of Products
GROUP 4. OILS, FATS, WAX AND THEIR DERIVATIVES .
Animal oils and fats and their derivatives :
Cod-liver oil and others of medicinal use, when in containers of more than 5 kgs., and not constituting a pharmaceutical specialty.
Other orude animal oils and fats, including neats-foot oil and orude tallow.
Oleo stearine , that is, the solid part obtained by pressure from animal fat except hog fat, with a minimum fusion point of 47° Centigrade , and not containing more than 2% of free fatty acids.
Perfumery and essences:
Natural essential oils and ethers.
Bucalyptus oil.
Synthetic or artificial.
Essences , extracts, and similar concentrated flavoring materials , both natural and synthetic , including mixtures thereof, in any form except those containing sugar, when imported for preparing soft drinks and non-alcoholic beverages.
GROUP 5. FERTILIZER, STARCH , EXPLOSIVES AND OTHERS .
Starches, dextrins and glucoses:
Starch of yucca.
Other starohes and other industrial feculas not specifically olassified.
Dextrin for industrial uses.

Rate of duty
1.60 per 100 Kgs. 0.20 per 100 Kgs.
2.40 per 100 Kgs. not negotiated 0.05 per Kg. not negotiated
not negotiatod
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated

A552

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 103-D
112 112-A 112 -B
113 113-B
114
114-A 114-B 114 -C 114-D 114-E 114-7 114-G

Description of Products

Glucose for industrial uses. GROUP 1. RAW AND SPUN COTTON. Rav ootton and wastes: Rau cotton.

Tastes and rags or outtings of fabrics, the size of which is not over 30 square oentimeters , used only for stuffing.
Thread or yarn:

In spools , skeins, balls or in other form, for hand weaving, embroidery or sewing , including thread or cord for manufacture of fish-nets and hammocks , and the oord or cordage of cotton for the manufacture of pneumatic tires .
GROUP 2. FABRICS.

Plain and smooth fabrics, napped or not, unbleached or white , weighing 10 kilograms or more per 100 square meters:

Up to

9 threads .

From 10 to 15 threads.

From 16 to 19 threads.

From 20 to 23 threads.

From 24 to 27 threads.

From 28 to 31 threads.

32 threads or more.

NOTES : Canvas shall be dutiable under the corres-
ponding letters of this Item in accordance with its threads, with a reduction of 25% from the duty indicated .

Fabrics of this Item, dyod a single color,
shall be subject to the duty on the fabrio with a surtax of 30, 10

Rate of duty not negotiated
not negotiated
Free
not negotiated
0,184 per Kg. 0.241 per Kg. 0.322 per Kg. 0.506 per Xg. 0,594 per Kg. 0.660 per Kg. 0.850 per Kg.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A553

SCHEDULE IX · CUBA Part I ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number
115
113-A 115-B 115-0 115-D 115-E 115-F 115-G 115-H

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Fabrics of this Item, printed or dyed with stripes , squares, or other designs, shall be subject to the duty on the fabric, with a reduction of 6. in lot-
ters A, B , C , D and E and with a surtax of 15 in letters F and G.

All Sub-items of this Item have a customs surtax in addition to the assessed duties, in each case , amounting to 30, (Law of August 9, 1932) .

Plain and smooth fabrios, napped or not, unbleached or white , weighing less than 10 dilograms per 100 square.eters:

Up to

6 threads.

From 7 to 11 threads.

From 12 to 15 threads.

From 16 to 19 threads.

From 20 to 23 threads.

From 24 to 27 threads.

From 28 to 31 threads.

32 threads or more.

NOTES :

Canvas shall be dutiable under the corresponding letters of this Item in accordance with its threads , with a reduction of 25,. from the duty indicated.

Fabrics of this Itcm, dyed a single color, shall be subject to the duty on the fabric, with a surtax of 40, ..

Fabrios of this Item, printed or dyed with stripes, squares, or other designs, shall be subject to the duty on the fabric, with a reduction of 2,. in letters A, B , C and D and with a surtax of 20, in letters E, F, G and H.

All Sub-items of this Item have a customs surtax in addition to the assessed duties , in each case, amounting to 30. (Law of August 9 ,; 1932 ) .

0,207 per Kg. 0.276 per Kg. 0.402 per Kg. 0.529 per Kg. 0.60 per Kg. 0.74 per Kg. 0.90 per Kg. 1.00 per Kg.

A554

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX- CUBA Part I ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 116
116-A 116-B 116-0 116-D 116-E 116-7 116-G 116-H
117

Description of Products

Fabrics, twilled or figured on the loam, napped or not , unbleached or white, weighing 10 or more kilograms per 100 square meters:

Up to

6 threads.

From 7 to 11 threads,

From 12 to 15 threads.

From 16 to 19 threads.

From 20 to 23 threads,

From 24 to 27 threads.

From 28 to 31 threads.

32 threads or more.

NOTES :

Canvas shall be dutiable under the corrospending letters of this Item in accordance with its threads , with a reduction of 25 . from the duty indicated.
Fabrics of this Item, dyed a single color, shall be subject to the duty on the fabrie with a surtax of 30,..

Fabrios of his Item, printed or dyed with stripes, squares, or other designs , shall
be subject to the duty on the fabrio, with a reduction of 6% in letters , B , C and D and with a surtax of 15,. in letters E, F, G and H.

All Sub-items of this Item have a customs surtax in addition to the assessed duties, in each case, amounting to 30, (Laar of August 9 , 1932).

Fabrics, twilled or figured on the loom, napped or not, unbleached or white, weighing less than 10 kilograms per 100 square meters:

Rate of duty
0.207 per Kg. 0,253 per Kg. 0,287 per Kg. 0.455 per 0.52 per kg. 0,66 per Ig. 0.84 per Kg. 0,96 per Kg.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A555

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 117-A 117-B 117-C 117-D 117-E 117-7 117-G 117-
120 120-B
121 121 -B

Description of Products

Up to

6 threads.

From 7 to 11 threads.

Fran 12 to 15 threads.

From 16 to 19 threads.

From 20 to 23 threads.

From 24 to 27 threads .

From 28 to 31 threads.

32 threads or more .

NOTES :

Canvas shall be dutiable under the corresponding letters of this item in accordance with its threads , with a reduction of 25, from the duty indicated .
Fabrios of this Item, dyed a single color, shall be subject to the duty on the fabric with a surtax of 40 .

Fabrics of this Item, printed or dyed with stripes, squares , or other designs , shall be subject to the duty on the fabrio, with a reduction of 1 in letters A, B, C and D
and with a surtax of 20, in letters E, F , G and H.

All Sub-itoms of this Item have a customs surtax in addition to the assessed duties, in each case , amounting to 30, (Law of August 9, 1932 ) .

Napped fabrics in blankets :

White , dyed a single color , or printed on white or unbleached material , including
napped cotton fabrics which contain not more than 5. of other fibers.

Velvety fabrics , corduroy, plush and velveteen :

Curled fabrics and plush, out or unout, except carpets, unbleached or white.

Rate of duty 0.264 per Kg. 0.333 per Kg. 0.46 per Kg. 0.609 per K3. 0.68 per Kg. 0.34 per Kg. 1.05 per Kg. 1.20 per Kg,
0.2875 per Kg.
0.825 per Kg.

A556

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE - CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 121-0 122 122-2 123 123-A 123-B 127 127-
128
128-A

Description of Products
The sare , dyed a single color or figured.
Knit fabrics :
Stockings , Books , gloves and other amall artiales of double sewing or fine work.
Tullos:
Plain, white or colored.
With figures, embroidery or open-work, done in process of weaving.
Trimmings and ribbons:
libbons , braids and galloons not for ornamental purposes , but for finishing alothing and other made-up articles, ar for manufacturing reins , bridlcs , cinch08 and footwear, including " alpargatas" , (twine-soled sandals) .
Fabrics for sacks to be used as containers, wioks and other articles not specifically classified:
Fabrics of ootton, plain or smooth or twilled, regardless of the number of threads and the weight of 100 square meters, for the fabrication of sacks , provided that they are imported bearing in indelible lettering the name of the national industry to thich they are destined , the lettering being so spacca as to appear on the material for each sack, in such manner as to occupy the greater part of the surface of both sides of the sacks.

Rate of duty 0.955 per Ag. 2.80 per Kg. 0.56 per K. 0.77 pcr Kg.
0.32 per Kg.
not negotiated

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT . 30, 1947 1

A557

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I (continued )

Cuban Tariff Item
Number
129 129-B 129-P
129 -G
129-H
129-I 129 -J

Description of Products
CLASS V. OMER VEGETABLE FIBERS, AYON, NYLON AND OTHER SIMILAR SYNTHETIC FIBERS , AND MANUFACTURES MIEREOF.
GROUP 1. RAW AND SPUN.
Raw, thread or yarn:
Hemp, flax, ramie , jute and other varieties of the so-called " soft" fibers, raw, in the fort of tow or combed.
layon or other similar synthetic fibers manufactured on a base of cellulose or a cellulose compound , in continuous filaments, or out filaments or fibers, threads or yarns. T. 15 .
Nylon or other fibers obtained by artificial synthosis , manufactured on a bace of organic chemical compounds, protein substances , glass , or metallic substanocs , in continuous filaments , or out filaments or fibers, threads or yarns.
Threads and yarns wholly or principally made of synthetic fibers , when imported to be used exclusively in the manufacture of braided cordage fabrics for pneumatic tires. T. 15,0 .
Fabrics of braided cordage for pneumatio tires, wholly or principally made of synthetic fibers , hon imported to be used in manufacturing. N. W.
Fabrics of braided oordage for pneumatio tires, wholly or principally made of synthetic fibers, not containing silk or wool, covered by a rubbor composition, when imported by the manufacturers thensolves for the manufacture of tires. N. W.

Rate of duty
Freo not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated

95347 0-49-pt. 5- -36

A558

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Pa (contiriod)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number
132-J 132-X 132-L 132132-N 132-0 132-P 132-Q 132-R

Description of Products

GROUP 2. FABRICS.

Fabrics of rayon, nylon or other similar synthetic yarn, plain, smooth, twilled or damasked , unbleached , weighing 35 or more kilograms per 100 square meters :

Up to

5 threads.

From 5 to 8 threads.

From 9 to 12 threads.

From 13 to 16 threads.

From 17 to 20 threads.

From 21 to 24 threads.

From 25 to 28 threads .

From 29 to 32 threads.

33 threads or more.

NOTES :

Fabrios of this Item, white or partly bleached , shall be subject to the duties on the fabric plus a surtax of 15,
Fabrios of this Item, dyed a single color, shall be subject to the duties on the fabric plus a surtax of 25,
Fabrios of this Item, printed or dyed with stripes, squares, or other designs, shall be subject to the duty on the fabric with a reduction of 4, in letters J, K, L, Hi, N and 0, and with a surtax of 20 in letters P, Q and R.
All Sub-items of this Item have a customs surtax in addition to the assessed duties, in each case , amounting to 30, (Law of August 9, 1932 ).

Rate of duty
0.092 per Kg. 0.138 per Kg. 0.1955 per Kg. 0.299 per Kg. 0.345 per Kg. 0.46 per Kg. 0.60 per kg. 0.70 per Kg. 0.80 per kg.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A559

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Itom
Number
133-J 133-K 133-L 133-X 133-N 133-0 133-P 133-Q 133-R

Description of Products

Fabrics of rayon, nylon or other similar synthetic yarn, plain , swoth, twilled or damasked, unbleached , weighing from and including 20 kilograms to but not including 35 kilograms por 100 square motors :

Up to From 6 From 9 Prom 13 From 17 From 21 From 25 From 29

5 threads. to 8 throads. to 12 threeds. to 16 threads. to 20 threads . to 24 threads. to 28 threads. to 32 threads.
33 threads or more .

NOTES :

Fabrics of this Item , white or partly bleached, shall be subject to the duties on the fabric plus a surtax of 25,
Fabrios of this Item, dyod a singlo color, shall be subject to the dutics on the fabric, plus a surtax of 40,%
Fabrics of this Item, printed or dyod with strips, squares or other designs , shall be subject to the dutics on the fabric, with a reduction of 4. in letters J, K, L , : , N and O and with a surtax of 20,, in lotters P, Q and R.
All Sub- tems of this Itou have a oustons surtax in addition to the assessed duties, in oach case , amounting to 30,, (Law of August 9 , 1932) .

Rate of duty
0.138 por Kg. 0.1725 per Kg. 0.23 por ig. 0.345 por g. 0.46 per Kg. 0.69 por Kg. 0.70 por K5. 0.80 gor Ag. 1.00 per Kg.

A560

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number
134-J 134-K 134-L 134-11 134 -N 134-0 134-P 134-0 134-R

Description of Products

Fabrics of rayon, nylon or other similar synthetic yarn, plain, smooth, twilled or damasked, unbleached , voighing from and inaluding 10 kilograms to but not inalaling 20 kilograms per 100 square meters:

Up to

8 threads.

From 9 to 12 threads.

From 13 to 16 threads.

Fram 17 to 20 threads. From 21 to 24 threads,

From 25 to 28 threads.

From 29 to 32 threads.

From 33 to 36 threads.

37 threads or more.

NOTES :

Fabrics of this Item, white or partly
bleached , shall be subject to the duties on the fabric plus a surtax of 25,

Fabrics of this Item, dyed a single color, shall be subject to the duties on the fabric plus a surtax of 40,..

Fabrics of this Iton, printed or dyed with stripes , squares or other designs, shall be subject to the duties on the fabrio, with a reduction of 4, in lotters J, K, L, M , N and 0, and with a surtax of 20,> in letters P, Q and B.
All Sub-Items of this Item have a customs surtax in addition to the assossed dutics, in each casc, amounting to 30. (Law of August 9 , 1932).

Rate of duty

0.22 per Kg.

0.297 per Kg.

0.418 per K·

0.66

Kg.

0.80 per Kg.

1.10 per Kg.

1.20 per Kg.

1.40 per Kg.

1.60 por Kg.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A561

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number
135-J 135-K 135-L 135135-N 135-0 135-P 135-Q 135-R
136 136-A 136-B 139 139-A

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Fabrics of rayon , nylon or other similar synthetic yarn, plain, smooth, twilled or damasked, unbleached , weighing loss than 10 kilograms per 100 square moters :

Up to

8 threads.

From 9 to 12 threads.

From 13 to 16 threads.

From 17 to 20 threads,

From 21 to 24 throads.

Fram 25 to 28 throads.

From 29 to 32 threads.

From 33 to 36 threads.

37 throads or more.

NOTES :

Fabrics of this Item, white or partly bleached, shall be subject to the duties on the fabric with a surtax of 30,..

Fabrios of this Itom, dyod a single color, shall be subject to the duties on the fabric plus a surtax of 50 ..

Fabrics of this Item, printed or dyed with stripes, squares or other designs, shall be subject to the same duties as on unbleached fabrios in lotters J, K, L, i, N and 0 , and with a surtax of 25, in lotters P, Q and R.

All Sub-items of this Iten have a customs surtax in addition to the assessed duties, in each case, amounting to 30,, (Law of August 9 , 1932).
Velvet and plush:

Of hemp , flax, ramie , jute or other vegetable fibers not specifically classified.

Of rayon, nylon and other similar synthetic yarns .

Laoc, blondes and odging:

Wovon on the loom or by hand, Plus an ad valorem duty of

0.264 per Kg. 0.341 por Kg. 0.44 per Kg. 0.704 por Kg. 1.012 per Kg. 1.21 per Kg. 1.30 per Kg. 1.50 per Kg. 1.70 por Kg.
not negotiated not negotiated
1.50 per Kg. 25,+

A562

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART I ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 139
139-C 139-D

Description of Products
Lace, blondes and edging of rayon, nylon or other similar synthetic yarns : Woven on the loom or by hand . Fabrics known as open-work or made with darning stitch, made by hand or machine.

Rate of duty
not negotiated not negotiated

142 142-A
142-B 142-C 142-D
142-E
142-F
143 143-D 143-E 144

Trimmings , galloons , ribbons and other articles of hemp , juta, flax, ramie or other vegetable fibers :
Ribbons , braids and gallons, not for ornamental purposes , for finishing clothing and other madeup articles and for manufacturing reins , bridles , cinches and footwear, including "alpargatas" (twine-soled sandals)
Trimmings for ornamental purposes , such as tassels, fringes and figured or open-work braids , or with spangles or beading, and fancy ribbons and galloons.
Reins, bridles , cinches and other braided manufactures and cords .
Soles for " alpargatas " ( twine-soled sandals) .
Trimmings, galloons , ribbons and other articles made of rayon , nylon and other similar synthetic or artificial yarns:
Ribbons, braids and galloons , not for ornamental purposes, for finishing clothing and other madeup articles and for manufacturing reins , bridles , cinches and footwear, including " alpargatas " (twine-soled sandals) .
Trimmings for ornamental purposes , such as tassels , fringes and figured or open-work braids , or with spangles or beading, and fancy ribbons and galloons . GROUP 1. RAW OR SPUN .
Bristles , hair and horsehair:
Insulating materials for construction purposes , composed principally of mineral or rock wool , or hair felt , including those used for heat , cold , or sound insulation .
Woolen felt.
Raw wool .

not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated
0.42 per Kg . 1.47 per Kg.
not negotiated 36% ad valorem Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A563

SCHEDULE IX CUBA PART 1 ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 147 147-B 147-F 151 151-C
152
152-C
152-D 152-E
152-F

Description of Products
GROUP 2 . FABRICS . Fabrics of pure or mixed wool :
In wearing apparel and knit articles in general , not specifically classified .
Swimming and bathing suits , sweaters , and other sportswear, when knitted .
GROUP 1. RAW MATERIAL.
Pulp and waste:
Waste of paper, cardboard , cordage , new fabrics not over one meter long and up to four centimeters wide , rags , pieces of jute sack and old paper.
GROUP 2. PAPER NOT MADE-UP .
Paper in continuous rolls , folios , or sheets, white or colored , glazed or calendered or not, with or without water-marks or pressure-marks, not cut to size or painted:
Manufactured on a base of bisulphite pulp, weighing not less than 10 grams per square meter , commonly known as manila paper, fiber paper and cellulose paper.
Manufactured on a base of bisulphite pulp, weighing not less than 10 grams per square meter, used for wrapping fruits; and glassine paper.
Manufactured on a base of ground wood pulp, in a proportion of not less than 70% thereof and 30% of bisulphite , weighing not less than 50 nor more then 60 grams per square meter , not glazed, commonly known as newsprint.
NOTE: When paper of Sub- item 152-E is imported by the newspaper companies expressly for the printing of their newspapers , and provided they comply with Decree 952 , of April 2, 1941 .
Manufactured on a base of bisulphite of soda pulp, without ground wood pulp, or with a proportion of the latter not in excess of 30%; weighing not less than 60 nor more than 130 grams per square meter, such as sulphite bond and paper commonly known as paper for books and illustrated papers.

Rate of duty not negotiated not negotiated Free
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated Free
5.00 per 100 Kgs.

A564

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

152-G

Manufactured on a base of pulp or fibers of flax, hemp, cotton and wheat or rye straw or others except that known as rice paper , weighing not less than 15 nor more than 30 grams per square meter, commonly known as cigarette paper.

152-H 152-I 152-J

Manufactured from flax pulp or fiber, surface-sized only or surface-sized and pulpsized as well , not cut or ruled , such as that known by the name of bank paper, and others of high quality.
The paper specified in Sub- item H of this Item, not containing flax, pulp-sized only, commonly known as writing paper.
Manufactured entirely on a base of cotton fiber, or on a base of wood pulp or cotton fiber, cormonly known as blotting paper.

152-K Other continuous papers not made-up, not specifically classified.

152-L The paper of Item 152-G . known as rice pager.

GROUP 3. MANIPULATED PAPER.

155

Manufactures of paper:

155-J 156

Abrasive paper, manufactured with glass , sand or pumice stone and other papers for smoothing or polishing .
Chemical papers:

156-G

Capsules and bands for bottles , and tubes , including synthetic sausage casings of all kinds , made of cellulce or of any cellulose derivative , plain or colored , printed or not.

156-H Other chemical papers , not specifically classified .

Rate of duty
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated
2.10 per 100 Kgs.
not negotiated not negotiated

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A565

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I (continued )

Cuban Tariff Item
Mumber 157 157-D 157-
157-G
161

Description of Products
GROUP 4. PAPER PRINTED , INGRAVED , LITHOGRAPHED ON PHOTOGRAPHD.
Printed :
Informative , technical , scientific or literary periodicals, published on fixod dates and not constituting printod matter of the dind specifically classified in Item 157.
Books, pamphlets , periodicals, publications, maps, and other objects of oxchango, without commercial value, for public libraries. Those books , pamphlets, periodicals and other publicstions destined for tourist propaganda, without commercial notices thereon, subject to the requiromonta set forth under this Iton in the Cuban Tariff.
Catalogs of namifacturers, pamphlets, almanacs, signs, posters and lithographs, advertising merchandise only, without conmordial value and intonied to be distributed gratis, subject to the requiremonts sot forth under this Item in the Cuban Tariff. Those almanacs, signs, posters, ani lithographs, whatever the mumber of printings, destined for tourist propaganda, without commercial notioos thoroon , subject to the requirements set forth under this Item in the Cuban Tariff,
GROUP 6. CADBOARD AND BRISTOL-BOARD AND LIANUFACTURES THEREOF .
Gardboard, pasteboard and bristol-board, in shoots or rolls:

Rate of duty Froo Froe Free

A566

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Mumber 161-8
165 165-A
166 166-B 165-0 166-D 166-E 166-7

Description of Products
Ordinary paperboard or pastoboard menufactured on a base or wholly of waste paper or newspaper, in natural color as manufactured , including those known as " chipboard" and " nowsboard" .
NOTE: Paperboard or pastoboard manufactured on a base of cohanical wood gulp in combination with bisulphite pulp, containing not less than 70 of mechanical wood pulp, shall be classified under Sib- tem 161-3 as paperboard or pasteboard made from vaste paper or newspaper.
GROUP 1. WOOD.
Ordinary wood, in logs, or rough saim or unplaned:
Ordinary pino (Pinus sp . ) and Douglas fir wood (Pscudotsuga taxifolia) and redwood (Soquoia Sempervirens) , recardless of size or form, in logs, or rough saw or unlncu , and railroad ties of pine , Douglas fir, cypross (Taxodium Distichum) and redwood (Sequoia Sompervirens).
Ordinary woods, further manufactured:
Plywood, except when in the form of bax shooks.
Box shooks.
Crate shooks.
Cases or boxes of ordinary wood , with wooden divisions for packing bottles.
Crates for paking fruits and vegetable products .

Rate of duty not negotiatod
Froo not negotiated not negotiated 0.06 per 100 Kgs. not negotiatod not negotiated

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A567

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I (continued)



Cuban Tariff Item
Number 166-G 166-H 188 188-0
189 193 193-G 209

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Broom handles.
Paoking cases in which articles are imported.
GROUP 1. LIVE ANIMALS.
Animals not previously specified and those exempt from duty.
Cattle, uncastrated males and females less than six years of age, imported for breeding and improvement of the cattle existing in Cuba, portaining to the breeds named Shorthorn (Durham), Heresford , Aberdeen-Angus, Red-Polled, Galloway, Devon, BrownSwiss, Holstein-Friesian, Jersey, Guernsey, Ayreshire , Zebu , Mysore , and Brahmin; that imported for the same purpose and not over said six years of age, proceeding directly from Porto Rico or the Argentine Republic ; and buffaloes not over said age , imported for the same purpose.
GROUP 2. HIDES AND SKINS AND MANUFACTURES THEREOF .
Hides and sdns, unmanufactured, green or dried, salted , pickled or limod, with or without hair, entire , in pieces, or strips , for tanning.
Tanned hides without hair, splits and similar hides:
Patent leather, in whole hides or sheets.
GROUP 1. MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS AND PARTS THEREOF :
Harps, violins , violincellos ; guitars , bandorus and mandolins with inlay, flutes and flageolets with the Boehm fingering system; metal instruments of 6 pistons or more, and loose parts for wind instruments, of wood or copper.

0.16 per 100 Kgs. not negotiated
Freo Froe 0.45 per Kg. 28% ad valorem

A568

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX · CUBA Part I ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

216 216-A
216-B

GROUP 2. CLOCKS , WATCHES , APPARATUS , MACHINERY AND MISCELLANEOUS INSTRUMENTS :
Agricultural and industrial machinery and instruments:
Machinery, apparatus and instruments employed in working and improving the ground, planting, disinfecting plantations , cultivating, harvesting , classifying , conditioning, sterilizing or manipulating in any manner the fruits of agricultural labor, including loose parts and accessories for the same , not specifically classified .
Machinery, portable or fixed , apparatus or instruments for industry in general and for the transformation of products used in manufactures , including those used in aqueducts, not specifically provided for , and including loose parts and accessories for the same , not specifically classified .

217 219 219 -B

Motors of all kinds , fixed or not , including windmills , and the loose parts and accessories for the same not specifically classified.
Boilers of all kinds for generating steam and parts and accessories for the same :
Parts and accessories of iron and steel , for boilers for generating steam, including "fluses" and tubes , whether or not out to measure and with or without threads .

219 -C 221
221 -B 221 -C

"Fluses" and completely finished loose parts and accessories for boilers , of copper or its alloys, not specifically classified .
Turntables , cranes and cane loaders , including loose parts and accessories for the same , not specifically classified :
Cane loaders , with or without scales.
Loose parts and accessories not specifically classified for cane loaders.

Rate of duty
6% ad valorem 10% ad valorem 10% ad valorem not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A569

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 222 222-B 223
224 224-A
224-B
227 227-B
227-0
227-D

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Office applianocs and loose parts and ao00ssories for the same, not specifically alassified :
Loose parts and accessories not specifically classified for office appliances in general , including ribbons for machines.
Telephonos, electrio apparatus and machinery of all kinds, including loose parts and aoOessories for the same, not specifically classified, including batteries and storage batteries.
Machines for sewing, embroiderigand similar machines, including noodles:
Machines for seving, embroidering,spinning and weaving and similar machines , and loose parts and accessories for the same , not specifically classified.
Needles for machines included in Sub-item A of this Item.
GROUP 3. CARRIAGES, AUTOMOBILES , TRACTORS, WAGONS, CARS AND OTHER VEHICLES.
Carriages, automobilcs , velocipedes and biayales:
Finished automobiles, with bodies mounted, of any material , whose list price in the factory docs not excood soven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00),
Finished automobiles , with bodies mounted, of any material , whose list price in the factory is more than acven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00), but not more than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) .
Finished automobiles , with bodies mounted, of any material , whose list price in the factory is more than one thousand five hundred dollars (1,500,00), but not more than two thousand three hundred dollars ( 2,300.00).

not negotiated 15% ad valoren not negotiated 4 ad valorem
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiatod

A570

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX · CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

227-E
227-F 227-G 227-H

Finished automobiles , with bodies mounted , of any material , whose list price in the factory is more than two thousand three hundred dollars ($2,300.00) .
Finished trucks , with mounted bodies , of wood and metal , in which wood predominates .
The same with bodies of steel or other metal ,
Automobile chassis without bodies.

227-I

Truck chassis with or without cabs for chafffeur, in which metal predominates , but without bodies , and bus chassis without bodies .

227-J 227-K 227-L

Bodies for automobiles , made of steel or other metal , combined or not with wood.
Bodies for trucks or buses , made of steel or other metal , assembled.
Bodies for trucks or buses , made of steel or other metal , when imported , completely unasserblod .

227227-N 227-0

Bodies for trucks or buses, made of wood , combined or not with steel or other metal.
Parts and accessories not specifically classified , for automobiles and trucks .
Tractors .

227-P

Loose parts and accessories for tractors , not specifically classified.

227-Q
227-R 227-S

Motorcycles and the like , and loose parts and acoessories for the same , not specifically olassified.
Velooipedes and bicycles.
Loose parts and accessories for velocipedes and bicycles, not specifically classified .

Rate of duty
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A571

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 229 229-B 229-C
238 238-C 246 246-E
246-7 247 247-A 247-B 247-0 248

Description of Products
Box cars, railway cars and mino cars:
Parts and accessories for box cars and railway cars, not specifically classified . Mine cars.
GROUP 1. MEAT AND FISH, BUTTER AND FATS.
Meat in brine or salted :
Pork, except the products included in letters A and B of Item 241 ,
Milk-
Milk called modified or "humanized" , by any process, in powder, to be employed exclusively for ill and convalescent persons and for the artificial lactation of children, provided it comes in glass or tin containers , holding not more than 16 ounces net and with the use indicated on said containers.
Malted.
Codfish and similar articles :
Codfish and stookfish,
Salted skate , haddook and sardines, dried and compressed.
Hake and other similar fish , dried and salted , not specifically classified,
Herring in brine , smoked, salted or pickled.

Rate of duty
not negotiated not negotiated
not negotiated
not negotiated 10.00 per 100 Kgs. 4.125 per 100 Kgs. 3.50 per 100 Kgs , 3.00 per 100 Kgs. 0.975 per 100 Kgs.

A572

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number
254 256 256-A 256-C 256-D
256-E 256-F 256-G 256-H
259 259-A
259-B
260
260-A

Description of Products
GROUP 2. CEREALS.
Wheat .
Flour, meal and semolina:
Wheat flour.
of corn.
of oats, including oats prepared for food (rolled oats).
Of other cereals.
Wheat semolina.
Corn flakes.
Other ready-to-eat cereals.
GROUP 3. VEGETABLES AND FRUITS.
Onions and garlic:
Onions imported from November 15th to May 31st, inclusive , of each year.
Onions imported from June 1st to November 14th, inclusive , of each year,
Potatoes and other fresh vegetables and garden truck:
Potatoes oertified to be for seed, cut in pieces , with the eyes plainly visible , preserved in ashes or other substances, and potatoes , whole or not cut in pieces, also certified, imported from September 1st to January 31st, inclusive , of each year, of the varieties specified or that in the future may be specified by the Department of Agriculture, imported to be used exclusively for seed, at the time and with the formalities and guarantees to be established by the Treasury Department .

Hate of duty 0.16 per 100 Kgs. 0,83 per 100 Kgs. not negotiated 1.625 per 100 Kgs, not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated
not negotiated not negotiated
Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A573

SCHEDULE IX CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 260-B 260-C
260-D
260-E
260-F
260-G 260-H 262 262-B 262-C 262-D
262-E

Description of Products
Potatoes not specifically classified , imported from November 1st to June 30th, inclusive , of each year, Potatoes not specifically classified, imported in the months of July and October of each year.
Potatoes not specifically classified , imported in the months of August and September of each year.
Cauliflower, celery , cucumbers , and other fresh garden truck, with the exception of tomatoes and cabbages , imported from November 1st to May 31st , inclusive , of each year.
Cauliflower , celery, cucumbers , and other fresh garden truck , with the exception of tomatoes and cabbages , imported from June 1st to October 31st , inclusive , of each year .
Tomatoes and cabbages, fresh.
Other fresh garden truck not specifically classified .
Fresh fruits :
Apples, pears , peaches, plums , oherries , grapes, nectarines and apricots.
Apples and pears imported from April 1st to July 31st , inclusive , of each year.
Strawberries imported during the period from March 1st to November 30th , inclusive , of each year,
Strawberries imported during the period from December 1st in any year to the last day of the following February, inclusive .

Rate of duty
5.00 per 100 Kgs. 4.00 per 100 Kgs. 3,00 per 100 Kgs.
not negotiated
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated 0,80 per 100 Kgs . not negotiated not negotiated

95347 049-pt. 5- -37

A574

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 262-P 262-G 262-H
268 268-D 269 269-E
269-F 269-G 269-H
269-I
270 270-H

Description of Products
Melons imported from February 1st to July 14th, inclusive, of each year.
Melons imported from July 15th to January 31st , inclusive , of each year. Others.
GROUP 4. SEEDS AND FEED FOR ANIMALS.
Other seeds:
Of garden truck, flowers , trees and shrubs.
Feed for animals:
Grape (olive) bagasse , cakes , pastes, powders, and meal of alfalfa andof oleaginous seeds, except the meal and cakes of peanuts; pulps, dregs, and residues from industries suitable for the feeding of livestock and other uses.
Meal and cakes of peanuts,
Birdseed, panic seed and hemp seed.
Feed for fowls; mixtures of three or more grains , crushed, such as corn, wheat , oats, sunflower, etc.; mixtures or compositions of animal substances , with or without other substances, finely ground; and oyster shells crushed for the same purpose.
Other feeds not specifically classified,
GROUP 5. CANNED GOODS.
Fish or shellfish canned in oil or in any other form, in tin or other containers:
Mackerel .

Rate of duty not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated
Free
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated
not negotiated not negotiated
not negotiated

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A575

SCHEDULE IX CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 270-I 271 271-F
271-G
271-H 272 272-B 273 273-B 273-0 273-D
273-B

Description of Products
Other fish and shellfish, not specifically olassified,
Vegetables canned and packed in any form:
Canned peas, sweet corn and asparagus.
NOTE : Articles included in Sub-item 271-F shall be classified under this Sub-item even when strained , but not including vegetable juices.
Paprika and other vegetables not specifically classified .
NOTE : Artioles included in Sub-item 271-G shall be classified under this Sub-item even when strained , but not including vegetable juices.
Canned beans of all kinds , whether or not prepared or flavored with meat , condiments or similar substances.
Preserved fruits , in brandy, syrup, or in any other form:
Apples, pears, peaches , plums, apricots , cherries and berries, including their mixtures.
Other preserved foods :
Beef, mutton or pork, ground , pressed or in paste , for lunch,
Sausage, mortadella and other similar stuffed products .
Sauces, mustards and seasoning extracts , and similar seasonings of all kinds, not specifically provided for, including mayonnaise and salad dressings , excluding ketchup and other tomato sauces. Fowl , foie-gras, truffles and other similar articles,

Rate of duty not negotiated not negotiated
not negotiated
not negotiated
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated
not negotiated not negotiated

A576

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX · CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 273-F 273-G 273-H 273-I 274 274-C
274-D
276 276-D 280 280-A

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Canned soups of all kinds , except tomato soup, whether or not prepared with meat products, condiments or similar substances.
Canned tomato soups , whether or not prepared with meat products or similar substances.
Dehydrated soups of all kinds , whether or not prepared with meat products, condiments or similar substances .
Other preserved foods not specifically classified .
GROUP 6. OILS AND BEVERAGES .
Olive oil and other vegetable oils, pure, refined, semi -refined, or hydrogenated :
Refined cottonseed, oorn and soybean oil.
NOTE : Vegetable oils included in Sub-item 274-C , when hydrogenated , shall be classified under Item 240, which specifically includes hydrogenated animal and vegetable oils and fats.
Other refined vegetable oils not specifically classified .
NOTE: Vegetable oils included in Sub-item 274-D when hydrogenated, shall be classified under Item 240, which specifically includes hydrogenated animal and vegetable oils and fats, Brandy, rum, gin, liquors, cognaos , cordials and all spiritous compounds not specifically classified, and whiskey:
Whiskey in bottles , flasks , demi johns and other similar containers,
Cider, ginger-ale and root beer; unfermented grape juice and other non-alcoholic beverages and soft-drinks , not specifically classified :
Articles of this Item, not specifically olassified , when imported in barrels , half-barrels or other similar containers.

not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated
not negotiated
0.29 per liter not negotiated

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A577

SCHEDULE IX · CUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 280-B
280-G
280-H
289
289-A
289-B
289-C 290 290-C 290-D 291 291 -B

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Natural or artificial cider and unfermented grape juice , in bottles , flasks , demijohns or other similar containers.
Root beer and other non-alcoholic beverages and soft-drinks not specifically classified , when imported in bottles , flasks , demijohns or other similar containers.

not negotiated not negotiated

Juices of apples , pears , plums , cherries and berries , when imported in bottles , flasks , demiJohns or other similar containers .
GROUP 7. MISCELLANEOUS .

not negotiated

Sweetened pastes , jellies and gelatine , marma¬ lade , quinoe paste , caramels ; sweetmeats and candies of all kinds and chewing gum:

Sweetened pastes , jellies and gelatine , marmalade , quince paste , caramels; sweetmeats and candies of all kinds not specifically classified.
Jams , Jellies and marmalades made of apples, peaches, apricots , plums , grapes , cherries , quinoes, ourrants and berries.
Chewing gum.

not negotiated
not negotiated not negotiated

Pastes and feculas for soup and other food purposes : Edible starch and fecula of corn.
Yeast Crackers :

not negotiated not negotiated

Pine crackers of all classes, including those in the manufacture of which there enter butter, eggs, sugar, essences or sweets of any kind, and those made with chocolate , ooooa butter, almonds , nuts or sweetmeats of any kind, provided that they do not contain more than 20% of chocolate or sweetmeats, including the immediate container.

not negotiated

A578

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX OUBA Part I (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 291-0
299
301 301-A 307

Description of Products
Fine crackers provided for under 292-B when they contain more than 20% and less than 30% chocolate or sweetmeats, including the immediate container.
Ornaments and knick-knaoks of all kinds of materials, not specifically classified. Plus 25% of the duty specified.
Amber, jet , tortoise-shell , coral , ivory, mother-of-pearl and meerschaum:
Mother-of-pearl and other similar conohes, in shells or sheets.
India rubber or gutta-percha and synthetic rubber in manufactured articles and packing:

308 308-B 313 324
314-B 314-0 318 318-B

Belting for power transmission:
Natural or synthetic rubber.
Games, toys and other articles of amusement or diversion, not specifically classified.
Tires of rubber or synthetic rubber, or of these materials combined with fabrics, for all kinds of vehicles, and inner tubes:
Hollow tires.
Imer tubes.
Films and plates for photography and cinematography:
Cinematograph films expsed or prepared for exhibition.

Rate of duty
not negotiated 1.05 per Kg. 0.2625
Free not negotiated on any of the Subitems of this It.. not negotiated 18.75% ad valorem
not negotiated not negotiated
not negotiated

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A579

SCHEDULE IX -CUBA Part I (concluded)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

318-C

NOTE: Cinematograph films classified under Sub-item 318-B may be imported temporarily under bond for preliminary showing to distributors and for purposes of censorship, and no duties shall be collected on such films which are not released for distribution or which are refused by the censorship board, provided they have not been exhibited publicly and are reexported within a maximum period of 30 days from the date on which they are withdrawn from customs ,
Cinematograph films , 16 millimeters or less in width, exposed or prepared for exhibition and to be used for non-commercial purposes; and all films imported expressly for educational purposes , previously authorized by the Ministry of Education.

318-D 318-E 321 321-B 324

Films for photograph cameras. Glass photograph plates. Hats, bonnets and caps of all kinds: Crowns, for hats. All other raw materials:

324-A 324-B

All other raw materials, subject to the conditions specified in Item 323 for unclassified manufactures, except calcium carbide.
Calcium carbide,

Rate of duty
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated 20% ad valorem not negotiated 8% ad valorem

(See GENERAL NOTES at the end of Part II)

A580

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX CUBA (This schedule is authentic only in the English language)
PART 11 Preferential Tariff

Cuban Tariff ltem
Number
1 1-B
3
3-C 3-G
6 6-A 7 7-A 7-C 7-D 7-E 7-F 7-J
10 10-A

Description of Products
GROUP 1.- STONES AND EARTHS SMPLOYED IN BUILDING, ARTS AND MANUFACTURES . Marble, jasper and alabaster: Marble, in sheets , regardless of size , unpolished, merely sawed . Earths employed in the arts and in manufacturing, and manufactures of gypsum: Cement, white, either natural or artificial . Other earths . GROUP 2.- COAL , SHALES , BITUMENS AND THEIR DERIVATIVES. Crude natural petroleum : For distillation or for other us98.
Derivatives of petroleum: Gasoline .
Tractorine and analogous substances . Special naphthas and volatile solvents for the manufacture of paintsand varnishes . Kerosina, coal oil , and analogous substances. Lubricating oils. Vaseline .
GROUP 4.- CRYSTAL AND GLASS . Common or ordinary glass : In containers of all kinds for industries, not constituting ornaments.

Rate of duty (Specific duty in Cuban pes08)
1.44 per 100 Kgs .
0.25 per 100 Kgs . 0.32 per 100 Kgs .
0.31 per 100 Kgs . 0.96 per 100 Kgs . 4.20 per 100 Kgs . 1.00 per 100 Kgs . 3.80 per 100 Kgs 4.00 per 100 Kgs . 2.50 per 100 Kgs.
1.20 per 100 Kgs .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A581

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART 11 ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Mumber 10-D
11 11-A
11-B
11-C 11-D
11-F 13 13- B 13-C
15 15-A 15-B

Description of Products
Articles of adornment or fancy articles adaptable to lamps manufactured in Cuba which are of the technical- scientific-industrial nature of ordinary glass .
Ordinary colorless or artificially colored glass:
In tableware, and other articles which do not constitute ornaments , plain , pressed or moulded , not chased , engraved , gilded or painted .
In tableware and other objects which do not constitute ornaments , chased , engraved , gilded or painted .
In ornaments or fancy articles .
Glass utensils and apparatus for laboratories and scientific uses in general , flat or curved , plain or engraved , solid or hollow , except ampules .
Ampules .
Glass and crystal , plain or curved :
For windows .
Ordinary or reinforced , not polished on the edges or ground , beveled , engraved or annealed .
Incandescent electric lamps :
Miniature and special bulbs up to 25 watts , including automobile bulbs .
All incandescent bulbs up to 50 watts capacity .

Rate of duty
4.125 per 100 Kgs.
3.50 per 100 Kgs . 6.408 per 100 Kgs . 12.00 per 100 Kgs . 0.75 per 100 Kgs . not negotiated 2.70 per 100 Kgs . 2.70 per 100 Kgs . 1.00 per hundred 1.65 per hundred

A582

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART 11 ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 15-C 15-D 15-E 15-F 15-G
16 16-B 19 19-A 20 20 -A 21 21-B
29

20

Description of Products
All incandescent bulbs of more than 50 watts and up to 100 watts . All incandescent bulbs of more than 100 watts and up to 300 watts . All incandescent bulbs of more than 300 watts .
Sealed beam headlight wits for autos , trucks , motorcycles , etc.
Fluorescent electric lamps .
GROUP 5.- ARTICLES OF CLAY, CEMENT, STONEWARE , PORCELAIN AND ANALOGOUS MATERIALS . Brick, flagging, fireclay and other articles
of refractory earth :
Brick, fireclay and other articles of refractory earth .
Manufactures of cement , with or without mixture of other materia_s , hollow or not:
In roofing tile , plates and sheets . All classes of earthenware articles not
elsewhere specified :
Not painted, gilded or in relief.
All classes of porcelain articles not elsewhere specified :
Painted , gilded, or with ornaments in relief.
GROUP 1.- GOLD, SILVER AND PLATINUM AND THE ALLOYS THEREOF , AND GOLD-PLATED AND SILVER PLATED ARTICLES .
Silver worked in any other form or article.

Rate of duty 2.10 per hundred 3.93 per hundred 7.86 per hundred 15% ad-valora 15% ad-valorea
0.40 per 100 Kgs . 0.64 per 100 Kgs . 2.95 par 100 Kgs . 7.254 per 100 Kgs .
6.00 per Kg.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A583

SCHEDULE 1X · CUBA PART 11 ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

30

Gold-plated or silver-plated articles of all

kinds, and gold-plated or silver-plated metal

jewelry with or without precious stones or their imitations :

30-B Other articles . Plus 25% of the duty specified .

GROUP 2.- CAST IRON .

32

In articles not coated or ornamented with any

other metal or with porcelain, and not polished or turned:

32-B In reinforced pipes and fittings for the same, with a diameter of 6 inches or less , for the conduction of water under pressure .

32-C In pipes of all kinds and fittings for the same , with a diameter of more than 6 inches.

34

In furniture and other objects :

34-B In show-cases and other articles, enameled , tinned or coated or ornamented with other metals or porcelain .

GROUP 3.- WROUGHT IRON AND STEEL .

36

Wrought iron or steel , rolled :

36-A In railway rails and rail bars .

36-B In bars of all shapes , including rods , rims and hoops.

37

Rolled sheets :

37-A Not polished or tinned , having a thickness of 3 or more millimeters .

Rate of duty
19.5% ad-valorem 4.875%
0.54 per 100 Kgs . 0.36 per 100 Kgs . 2.60 per 100 Kgs . 0.25 per 100 Kgs . 0.30 per 100 Kgs . 0.42 per 100 Kgs .

A584

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE 1X - CUBA PART II ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

37-B Not polished or tinned , of less than 3 millimeters thickness , and strap-iron.

0.45 per 100 Kgs .

37-C Tinned and in tinplate , unmarked, not lithographed.

0.075 per 100 Kgs.

37-8 Polished , corrugated , perforated , cold- rolled , whether galvanized or not, and polished strap-iron .

1.20 per 100 Kgs.

39

Wrought iron or steel , in finished shapes:

39-A Wheels of more than 100 Kgs .

0.60 per 100 Kgs .

39-C Fishplates , bearings , sleepers , mill-roll axles or straight axles , springs for railWays and tramcars and journal-boxes .

0.60 per 100 Kgs .

39-D Springs other than for railways or tramcars; crank-shafts and axles other than
straight ones .

1.20 per 100 Kgs .

40

Piping, cylindrical , triangular , octagonal , or

of any other form, and whether or not coated

or galvanized , except special tubes for boilers . 0.30 per 100 Kgs .

41

Wire, whether galvanized or not :

41-A More than 2 millimeters , up to 8 millimeters diameter .

0.25 per 100 Kgs .

41-B More than 1/2 millimeter, up to 2 millimeters diameter .
41- D In cables.
41-G In fences and grilla-work, not ornamental , for farms and pastures .

0.45 per 100 Kgs. 0.90 per 100 Kgs . 0.60 per 100 Kgs .



Large structural shapes :
42-A In beams , bars and shapes of all kinds , not cut to measure , withoutscrews or rivets and not perforated .

0.32 per 100 Kgs .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A585

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART 11 ( continued)

Cuban Tariff ltem
Number

Description of Products

43

Anchors , chain for vessels and for machinery,

moorings , switches and signal disks .

45

Hire gauze:

45-

Up to 19 threads in an area 23 millimeters

square .

1177 1999

47

Tools and implements not constituting

apparatus :

47-A Fin , for arts , crafts and professions , made of fine crucible steal or fine steel cast by other methods .

47-

Fish-hooks .

47-F Other tools and implements.

48

In screws, nuts , bolts , washers and rivets ,

nails, meat-hooks , tacks, brads and other

articles not specified in other items :

48-A Nails and brads made of wire .

48-B Nails of wrought iron or steel. 48-C Rivets .

48-D Those not covered by the preceding letters.

49

Bits , stirrups , spurs , trimmings , rings ,

hames , pins and other accessories of saddlery work .

50

Buckles of all kinds .

51

Needles for sewing and embroidery, crochet

needles and pens , including cardboard containers .

Rate of duty 0.975 per 100 Kgs .
2.50 per 100 Kgs .
2.00 per 100 Kgs . not negotiated 1.80 per 100 Kgs .
1.625 per 100 Kgs . 1.45 per 100 Kgs . 2.25 per 100 Kgs . 1.90 per 100 Kgs . 2.10 per 100 Kgs . 0.14 per Kg . 0.225 per Kg.

A586

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE 1 - CUBA PART II ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

124

52

Pins, hooks and eyes, hairpins and snaps,

including the cardboard containers .

53

Cutlery :

53-A With handles of wood, iron, horn , bone or composition, for use of cooks , butchers , saddlers , shoemakers and those of other crafts or arts, including grinders ; and table knives and forks with such handles , or with handles of the same materials as the blade , whether or not they are tinned or nickeled in whole or in part.
53-F Steal blades for safety razors, in finished or unfinished state.

56

Manufactures of tinplate:

56-A Crown caps for containers of all kinds not painted, japanned , printed or lithographed .
56-B Crown caps for containers of all kinds when painted, japanned, printed or lithographed.

56-C Other articles of all kinds not painted, jepanned, printed or lithographed.

56-D Other articles of all kinds when painted , japanned, printed or lithographed .

57

Beds and other articles of ordinary

manufacture :

57-B Articles of all kinds not specifically classified , of ordinary manufacture, even though coated with lead , tin or zinc , or painted or varnished.

58

Beds and other articles of fine manufacture:

53-B in furniture of all kinds, of iron or steel ,

0.30 per Kg.
0.15 per Kg. 0.25 per 100
blades 4.50 per 100 Kgs . 9.00 per 100 Kgs. 3.75 per 100 Kgs . 7.50 per 100 Kgs .
1.80 per 100 Kgs .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A587

SCHEDULE 1X CUBA PART 11 ( continued )

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

58-B in any form in which imported , assembled or knocked down , finished or unfinished . Plus an ad-valorem duty of
58-C Shanelled kitchenware made of iron.

58-D In articles of all kinds not specifically classified , including ice boxes , metal office furnitur , filing cabinets , safes and cash boxes .

GROUP 4.- COPPER AND 1TS ALLOYS OF ORDINARY CTALS (BRASS , BRONZE, ETC. )

61

In bars of all kinds .

62

Rolled in plates and in powder:

62-A Rolled in plates .

62-D In powder , when imported by manufacturers themselves for the production of paints .

63

Wire:

63-A Of one millimeter or more in diameter .

63-B Of less than one millimeter in diameter .

644

Kire covered with fabric or insulating

material , and cables for carrying electric

current :

64-A Sheathed with lead pipe and various insulating or protective materials .

64-B Submarine cables of all kinds , not elsewhere specified .

64-C All others .

Rate of duty 3.60 per 100 Kgs. 12% 3.30 par 100 Kgs .
3.30 per 100 Kgs .
2.45 per 100 Kgs . 2.40 per 100 Kgs . 1.50 per 100 Kgs . 3.00 per 100 Kgs . 4.20 per 100 Kgs .
1.80 per 100 Kgs . 1.50 per 100 Kgs . 6.50 per 100 Kgs .

A588

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

66

122

65 65-A
65-B 66
66-A 66-3 66-C 69 69-A 69-B 69-0
72 72-A 40 72-0 72-D 72-E

Wire gauze :
Up to 99 threads in an area 23 millimeters square,
of 100 threads er more in an area 23 millimeters square.
Pipe, fire plates, pieces used in boiler making, partly worked, and bearings : Pipe and fire plates (plates for " hogares" ) . Pieces used in boiler-making, partly worked. Bearings.
Articles not specifically classified : Polished, varnished or nickeled. Without polishing, varnishing or niokeling. Articles destined exclusively to hygienio and sanitary uses.
GROUP 5.- OTHER ORDINARY METALS AND THEIR ALLOYS .
Nickel , aluminium and their alloys :
In lumps or ingots. In bars, plates and wire. In Powder.
In pipe. Aluminium hammered into fine leaves

0.1625 per Kg. 0.35 per Kg.
4.48 per 100 Kgs. not negotiated. 10.50 per 100 Kgs.
0.30 per Kg. 0.12 per Kg. 0.20 per Kg.
not negotiated 3.25 per 100 Kgs. 1.625 per 100 Kgs. not negotiated 6.00 per 100 Kgs.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A589

SCHEDULE II - CUBA PART 11 (continued)

Cuban Tariff item
Number 72-F 72-G 73 73-A 73-B 73-C
73-D
73-E 75-F
73-G 73-H
73-1 74
74-B

Description of Products
Aluminum hammered into fine leaves , with lithographic impressions .
In other articles .
Tin and its alloys (Britannia metal ) :
In lumps or ingots .
In burs, plates and wire .
In pipe , and in containers for pastes , soaps and for other industrial uses , not printed , engraved or lithographed .
The same articles included in the previous letter when printed , engraved or lithographed .
Hammered into fine leaves (tinfoil ) .
Hammered into fine leaves ( tinfoil ) , bronzed, with printing or lithographed, ith any number of impressions .
Ceps for bottles and other containers for industries , plain or embossed.
Caps for bottles and other containers for industries , bronzed , with printing or lithographed, with any number of impressions .
In other articles .
Zinc, load and other metals not specifically lassified , and the alloys thereof:
In bars, plates and wire .

Rate of duty
not negotiated 0.375 per Kg. 0.80 per 100 Kgs . 3.50 per 100 Kgs . 5.50 per 100 Kgs . 7.50 per 100 Kgs . not negotiated
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated
0.70 per 100 Kgs .

95347 O 49-pt. 5- -38

A590

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX CUBA PART 11 (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

55

78 78-A
78-B 78-C
78-E
82 82-A 82-B 82-C
84 84-B 85 85-A 85-B 85-C

GROUP 1.- SIMPLE DRUGS .

Resins and gums :

Resin, copal , gum-lac in flakes or in porder , sandarac, vegetable pitch and creosote and analogous products .
Oil of turpentine .

0.35 per 100 Kgs . 0.35 per 100 Kgs .

Rubber (coagulated latex , whether or not it is smoked , washed or purified) , synthetic rubber and gutta-percha, crude , in lumps or sheets not vulcanized .

0.35 per 100 Kgs.

Vulcanized rubber, synthetic rubber and gutta-percha , smooth, corrugated or grooved, in rolls or sheets , imported as raw material for the manufacture of articles .
Products of the vegetable kingdom: Hops . Malt .

0.0715 per Kg.
0.70 per 100 Kgs . 0.18 per 100 Kgs .

Other simple products of the vegetable kingdom,

including 894ds used in pharmacy , not specifically

classified .

2.10 per 100 Kgs .

GROUP 2.- COLORS, DYES AND VARNISHES . Natural colors:

Prepared in any form, including prepared asphalt. 0.70 per 100 Kgs. Artificial colors:

In powder or lumps . Coal-tar colors.

0.40 per 100 Kgs . 0.14 per Kg.

Pigments or paints in paste or semi-paste con-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A591

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART 11 ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

85-C taining artificial colors or a combination of artificial and natural colors , ground or mixed with oil or varnish , and not for immediate application.

85-D Lead or colored pencils.

86

Other artificial colors:

86-A Water paints and calcisines prepared with any of the colors provided for in Items 84 and 85, or a combination thereof , whether or not prepared for immediate use.
86-B Enamel paints and enamels , including cellulose lacquers and enamels and asphalt varnishes , ready for immediate application .

86-C Other prepared paints ready for immediate application, not specially classified.

88

lnks :

88-A Writing and drawing inks .

88-B For printing yo.k.

88-C For lithographing.

89

Varnishes :

89-A Varnishes prepared without pigments and not specifically classified.

89-B Varnishes of pyroxylin.

90

Blacking .

GROUP CHEMICAL AND PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS .

93

93

Organic acids:

93-D 01.ic , stearic and palmitic .

Rate of duty
.7.00 per 100 Kgs. 3.00 per 100 Kgs .
4.80 per 100 Kgs . 7.00 par 100 Kgs. 7.00 per 100 Xgs. 3.15 per 100 Kgs. 1.95 per 100 Kgs . 3.25 par 100 Kgs .
10.00 per 100 Kgs . 8.00 per 100 Kgs . 4.00 per 100 Kgs.
0.98 per 100 Kgs .

A592

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART 11 ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

94

Oxides and Oxyhydrates:

94-A Of ammonia , soda , potash and other caustic and barilla alkalis, including anhydrous
ammonia , with the exception of caustic soda and soda ash .

94-B Caustic sode and soda ash .

94-0 Oxide of lead for the manufacture of glass .

95

Inorganic salts:

95-A Sodium chloride or common salt, in grains .

95-B Salt ground or manuf ctured in any other form.

95-C Salts of ammonia ( except sulphate ) ; chlorides of potassium and calcium; sulphates of potash, soda, iron , magnesium and barium ( barytes); salts of copper; alum; oxide and carbonate of magnesia; hyposulphites and borax.

95-E Carbonat and bicarbonate of sod and sodium sulphide .

98

Chemical products not specifically classified ;

acetone and wood alcohol and scale-removers:

98-A Chemical products not specifically classified , when in large containers or in bulk.

98-B Chemical products not specifically classified , on small containers , including baking
powder or artificial leavening.

98-C Acetone and methyl or wood alcohol .

98-0 Sulphonated oils and fats .

98-H Asphalt cements and putties , whether or not containing asbestos , for roof construction or repairs , and for waterproofing work in general .

Rate of duty
0.175 per 100 Kgs. 0.50 per 100 Kgs. not magotiated 1.1375 per 100
kg . 1.4625 per 100
Lgs.
0.30 per 100 kgs. 0.14 per 100 Kgs .
0.033 per Kg. 0.042 per Kg. 0.70 per 100 Kgs . 0.80 per 100 Kgs.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A593

SCHEDULE 1X CUBA PART 11 ( continued )

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

99 100 100-A 100-B 100-D
100-F 100- G

Pills, including those of quinine , capsules , medicinal lozenges and similar articles.
Pharmaceutical products and insecticides not p.cific lly classified:
Constituting pharmaceutical specialties or those known as patent medicines .
Biological and opotherapeutical products , in any form.
Disinfectants such as creolin, lysol, bleaching powders , including hypochlorite of calcium and similar substances .
Threads of silk, cotton, gauze, bandages , court plaster, taffeta , and other aseptic and antiseptic articles , in any form.
Other pharmaceutical products .

NOTE 11: The importation of pharmaceutical specialties and patent medicines remains subject to the provisions of Note I of the Cuben Tariff, or of any others that the Cuban Health Department may establish. It is understood , however, that the Cuban Department of Health will not impose any certification requirement or any formality for the importation , registration, licensing and sale of pharmaceutical specialties and patent medicines , which will be impossible of fulfillment in the United States of america because of the lack of a duly authorized Federal agency . It is further
agreed that no fee in connection with the ragistration or licensing of pharmaceutical specialties or patent medicines shall be greater than that existing on the day of signature of this Agreement .

Rate of duty 0.14 per Kg.
0.14 per Kg. 0.175 per Kg. 1.05 per 100 Kg.. 0.07 per Kg. 0.091 per Kg.

A594

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX CUBA PART 11 ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number
101 101-A
101-B
101-G 103 103-C 105 105-A 105-B
105-D

Description of Products

Rate of duty

GROUP 4.- OILS , FATS , WAX AND THEIR DERIVATIVES .

Crude or impure vegetable oils and fats :

Cottonseed, corn and soybean oils.

1.95 per 100 Kgs.

NOTE: Soybean oil , crude or impure , shall be classified in accordance with the specifications set forta in ne Note to the tem 101-A of the Customs Tariff of the Republic of Cuba , except in respect of the free fatty acid content which is reduced from 1% to 0.5%.

Castor oil ; and others of vegetabl origin,
employed medicinally , not specifically classfied .

4.00 par 100 Kgs.

Other vegetable oils not specifically clapsified .

3.01 per 100 Kgs .

Fax and paraffin:

Paraffin in lumps .

0.40 per 100 Kgs.

Soaps :

Common or ordinary for scouring or washing, in bars , paste or liquid .

2.50 per 100 Kgs .

In blocks , cakes , flakes or shavings , or in powder, of ordinary class for scouring or washing, or the white 30p called Castille or Marseilles soaps, and also those called bluing soaps .

3.90 per 100 Kgs .

In powder and liquid , perfumed and in cakes, unwrapped, perfumed or not . Plus an ad-valorem duty of

0.14 par Kg. 55

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A595

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

105-E

Wrapped, for toilet, or fine toilet soaps, even though not wrapped. Plus an ad-valorem duty of

106

Perfumery and essences :

106-A

Toilet water obtained by mixture, lotions, oils, pomades, cosmetics, hair restorers and hair tonios; liquid dentifrices, and those in paste or powder; and any other articles
of similar nature for toilet purposes, not elsewhere classified, the value of which is
less than $1.25 per kilogram, Plus an ad valorem duty of

106-B

The articles covered by the preceding lettered Sub-Item, when their value is $1.25 or mere
per kilogram. Plus an ad valorem duty of

106-C

Toilet powder, including those of tale, and
those in compressed or paste form, rouge, face-paint of any color, including oosmetic pencils or crayons ; solid and liquid products
for maniouring, and skin creams, not specifically classified. Plus an ad valorem duty of

106-E

Natural essential oils and others.

206106-G 106-H

Eucalyptus Oil,
Synthetic or artificial. Plus an ad valorem duty of
Essences, extracts, and similar concentrated flavoring materials, both natural and synthetic, including mixtures thereof, in any form except those containing sugar, when imported for preparing soft drinks and non-alcoholis beverages,

Rate of duty
0.275 per Kg. 1%3
0.50 per Kg. 10% 0.75 per Kg. 10%
0.50 per Kg. 10% 0.28 per Kg. not negotiated 0.21 per Kg. 7%
0.15 per Kg.

A596

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE 1X CUBA PART 11 ( continu:)

Cuban Teriff Item
Number

Description of Products

GROUP 5.- FERTILIZER, STARCA , EXPLOSIVES AND OTHERS.

103 108-h

Starches , dextrin and glucoses: Starch of yucca.

108-2 Other starches and other industrial feculas not specifically classified .

108-C Dextrin for industrial uses .

108-D Glucose for industrial uses .

109 Prepared sizing and adhesives :

109-A Albumin , fibrin , gelatine , glues and other albu.inoids in chatever form,

109-B
110 111

Lucilage, adhesives and sizing in powder, past or liquid , manufactured on a base of dextrin, starches, cu rabic and other similar products of vegetabl > origin .
Carbons prepared for electrical us .
Gunpowder and explosives:

111-A Gunpo..der, plosiv: nixtures end fus¬s.

GROUP 1.- R AND SPUN COTTON.

112 Raw cotton and wastes :

112-A RE cotton.

113 Thread or yarn:

113-A

In skeins , spindle or in other forus for Bechanical manufacture of fabrics of all
kinds , cord or braid , T. 15%.

Ret: of duty
3.64 per 100 Kgs . 2.60 per 100 Xgs . 1.20 per 100 Kgs. 1.20 per 100 Kgs .
3.60 per 100 Kgs . 7.50 per 100 Kgs . 2.12 per 160 Kgs . 3.50 per 100 Kgs .
Fr
2.10 per 100 Kgs .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A597

SCHEDULE 1X - CUBA PART II ( continued)

Cuban Tariff 1tam
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

113-B
113-C
114
114-A 114-B 114-C 114-D 114-8 114-F 114-G

In spools , skeins , balls or in other form , for hand weaving, mbroidery or Bering, including thread or cord for manufacture of fish-nsts
and hammocks, and the cord or cordega of cotton for the manufacture of pneumatic tires .

2.10 per 100 Kgs .

In cordage, rope and twine , not braided, end mad -up fish-nets and hammock of net.
GROUP 2.- FABRICS .

7.00 per 100 Kgs .

Plain and smooth fabrics , napped or not, unbleached or white , waighing 10 kilograms or more per 100 square meters :

Up to

9 threads .

From 10 to 15 threads .

From 16 to 19 thres .

From 20 to 20 threads.

From 24 to 27 threeds.

From 28 to 31 throde,

32 throde or mora,

0.136 per Kg. 0.178 per Kg. 0.228 per Kg. 0.330 pr Kg. 0.386 per Kg. 0.396 per Kg . 0.510 per Kg .

NOTES:

Canvas shall be dutible under the corresponding letters of this item in accordance with its threads , with a reduction of 25% from the duty indicati .

Fabrics of this Item, dyed a single color, shall be subject to the duty on the fabric with a surtax of 30%.

Fabrics of this Item , printed or dye with stripes, squares, or other designs, shall be
subject to the duty on the fabric , with a reduction of 6% in letters A , B, C , D, and C and with a surtax of 15% in letters F and G.

All Sub-items of this Item have customs surtax in adition to the assessed duties,
in euch cose, mounting to 30% ( Ley of August 9, 1932) .

A598

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE 1X · CUBA PART 11 ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number
115
115-A 115-B 115-C 115-D 115-E 115-F 115-G 115-8

Description of Products

Plain and smooth fabrics, napped or not, unbleached or whitë , weighing less thn 10 Kilograms për 100 square meters:

Up to

6 threads,

From 7 to 11 threads .

From 12 to 15 thro .

From 16 to 19 threads.

From 20 to 23 threads .

From 24 to 27 threads .

From 28 to 31 threads .

32 threads or morú,

NOTES:

Canvas shall be dutiable under the corresponding letters of this item in accordance with its threads , with a reduction of 25% from the duty indicated.

Fabrics of this Item, dyed a single color, shall be subject to the duty on the fabric with a surtax of 40%.

Fabrics of this item , printed or dyed with stripes, squares, or other designs , shall be
subject to the duty on the fabric , with a reduction of 2% in letters A, B, C and D, and with a surtax of 20% in letters E, F, G and A.

All Sub-items of this Item have a customs surtax in addition to the assessed duties, in each case, amounting to 30% ( Law of August 9, 1932) .

Rate of duty
0.153 per Kg. 0.204 par Kg. 0.297 per Kg. 0.345 par Kg. 0.360 per Kg. 0.444 per Kg. 0.540 per Kg. 0.636 par Kg.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A599

SCHEDULE 1X CUBA

PART 11 ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Nunber
116
116116-B 116-C 116-D 116-E 116 -F 116-G 116-H

Description of Products

Fabrics , tailled or figured on the loom, napped or not, unbleached or white, weighing 10 or more kilograms par 100 square meters :

Up to

6 threads .

From 7 to 11 threads .

From 12 to 15 threads .

Fro 16 to 19 threads .

From 20 to 23 threeds .

From 24 to 27 threads .

From 28 to 31 threads .

32 threads or more.

NOTES:

Canvas shall be dutiable under tn corresponding letters of this lten in accordance with its thrauds , with a reduction of 25% from th÷ duty indicated .

Fabrics of this item, dyer a single color, shall be subject to the duty on the fabric with a surtax of 30% .

Fabrics of this itam, print or dyed with stripes , squares , or other designs , shall be subject to the duty on the fabric, ith
reduction of 6% in letters A, B, C and D, and with n surtax of 15% in letters 3, F, G and H.

All Sub-items of this Ita hav & customs surtax in addition to the assessed duties ,
in esch case , amounting to 30% (Law of August 9, 1932) .

Rate of duty
0.153 per Kg. 0.187 per Kg . 6.212 per Kg . 0.225 per Kg . 0.338 per Kg. 0.429 per Kg. 0.546 per Kg . 0.624 por Kg.

A600

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART 11 (continued)

Cuban Tariff 1tow
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

117
117-A 117-E 117-C 117-D 117-E 117-F 117-G 117-8

; Fabrics , twilled or figured on the loos , napped or not, unbleached or unit , weighing less than 10 kilograms per 100 square meters :

Up to

6 threads.

From 7 to 11 threads .

From 12 to 15 threds .

From 16 to 19 threads .

From 20 to 23 threads.

From 24 to 27 thrands .

From 28 to 31 threads .

32 thrade or more.

0.195 par Kg. 0.246 per Kg . 0.340 per Kg. C.450 pers. 0.476 par kg. C.588 per Kg. C.75 par K. 0.840 par Kg.

NOTES:
Cenvis shall be dutiable under the corresponding letters of this Itan in accordance with .t threads , with a reduction of 25% from the duty indicated .

Fabrics of this lt , dyed a singl : color, shall b subject to the duty on the fabric with a surts of 40%.

Fabrics of this Item, printed or dye with stripes , squares , or other designs , shall be subject to the duty on the fabric , with a reduction of 1% in letters A, B, C and D and with a surtax of 20% in letters E , F, G and H.
All Sub-items of this Item have a customs surtax in addition to the assessed duties , in each case, mounting to 30% (Law of August 9, 1932) .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A601

SCHEDULE 1X - CUBA PART 11 (continued)

Cuban Tariff item
Bumbar

Description of Products

Rate of duty

119 119119-B 119-C

Piqués and imitations thereof; and fabrios called crepes end similar ones:
Piqué, unbleached or whits.
Piqué, dyed a single color, or with stripes , squares or other designs .
Crape .

0.27 per Kg . 0.33 per Kg. 0.144 par Kg.

120 120-B

Napped fabrics in blank÷ts:
White, dyed a single color, or printed on white or unbleached material , including napped cotton fabrica which contain not more than 5% of other fibers.

0.20 per Kg .

121
121-A 121.8 121-C 12 122-A 122-E 127 127-A

Velvety fabrics, corduroy, plush and velveteen:
Corduroy, valvteen, and similar fabrics, of any color.
Curled fabrics and plush, cut or uncut, excapt carpets , unbleached or white .
The same, dyed a single color or figured.
Knit fabrics:
In the piece.
Stockings , socks , gloves and other small articles of double sewing or fine work.
Trimmings and ribbons:
Ribbons, braids and galloons not for ornamental purposes, but for finishing clothing and other með :-up articles, or for wenufacturing reins , bridles , cinches and footwear, including "elpargatas " ( twin -soled sandals) .

0.21 per Kg. 0.45 per Kg . 0.52 per Kg . 0.27 per Kg. 1.50 per Kg.
C.24 per kg.

A602

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE 1X CUBA PART 11 ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 128 128-A
128-B 128-C
129 129. F 129-G
129-H 129-1 129-J

Description of Products
Fabrics for sacks to be used as containers , wicks and other articles not specifically classified :
Fabrics of cotton , plain or smooth or twilled , regardless of the number of threads and the weight of 100 square meters , for the fabrication of sacks , provided that they are imported bearing in indelible lettering the name of the national industry to which they are destined , the lettering being so spaced as to appear on the material for each sack , in such manner as to occu y the greeter part of the surface of both sides of the sacks .
Wicks for lamps , candles , tinder-boxes , and similar articles .
Twisted cords of all kinds for wax matches, candles and other similar uses.
CLASS V. OTHER VEGETABLE FIBERS , RAYON , NYLON AND OTHER SIMILAR SYNTHETIC FIBERS , AND MANUFACTURES THEREOF .
GROUP 1. RAW AND SPUN.
Raw, thread or yarn:
Rayon or other similar synthetic fibers manufactured on a base of cellulose or a cellulose compound, in continuous filaments , or cut filaments or fibers, threads or yarns , T. 15% . Nylon or other fibers obtained by artificial synthesis , manufactured on a base of organic chemical compounds , protein substances , glass or metallic substances , in continuous filaments , or cut filaments or fibers , threads or yarns. Threads and yarns wholly or principally made of synthetic fibers , when imported to be used exclusively in the manufacture of braided cordage fabrics for pneumatic tires, T. 15% . Fabrics of braided cordag : for pneumatic tires , wholly or principally made of synthetic fibers , when imported to be used in manufacturing, N.W. Fabrics of braided cordage for pneumatic tires , wholly or principally made of synthetic fibers , not containing silk or wool , covered by a rubber or synthetic rubber composition , when imported by the manufacturers themselves for the manufacture of tires , N.W.

Rate of duty
0.07 per Kg. 0.126 per Kg. 0.021 per Kg.
0.25 per kg. 10% ad valorea 0.11 per Kg. 0.08 per Kg. 0.16 per Kg.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A603

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART 11 (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Mubar

Description of Products

Rate of duty

132-J 132-1. 132-L 132132-N 132-0 132-P 132-6 132-R

GROUP 2.- TABRIOS.

Fabrics of rayon, nylon or other similar synthetic yarn, plain, saooth, twilled or damesked ,
unbleached, waighing 35 or more kilogras per 100 square meters :

Up to

5 thruais.

From 6 to 8 threads .

From 9 to lá thrais .

From 12 to 16 threads .

From 17 to 20 threads.

Frow 21 to 24 threads .

From 25 to 28 threeds .

From 29 to 32 thruas .

22 thrnds or more.

0.06 per Kg. 0.09 per Kg. 0.1275 per Kg. 0.195 per . 0.225 per Kg. 0.30 per kg. 0.36 per Kg. 0.42 par Kg. 0.48 per Ig.

NOTES:
Fabrics of this It , white or partly bleached, shall be subject to the duties on the fabric plus & surtax of 15%.
Fabrics of this Item, dyed a single color, shall be subject to the duties on the fabric plus a surtax of 25%.
Fabrics of this Item, printed or dyed with stripes, squares, or other designs, shell be subject to the duty on the fabric with a reduction of 4% in lettre J, K, L, Mo N and 0, and with a surtax of 20% in letters P, and R.
All Sub-items of this Iten have a onatons surtax in addition to the assessed duti48, in each case, amounting to 30% (Law of August 9 , 1932) .

A604

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART 11 (continued)

Cuban tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

133-J 133-K 133-L 133-M 133-N 133-0 133-P 133-Q 133-R

Fabrics of rayon, nylon or other similar synthetic yarn, plain , smooth, twilled or dmsked , unbleached , weighing from and including 20 kilograms to but not including 35 kilograms per 100 square meters:

Up to

5 threads .

From 6 to 8 threads .

From 9 to 12 threads .

From 13 to 16 threads .

From 17 to 20 threads .

From 21 to 24 threads .

From 25 to 28 threals .

From 29 to 32 threeds .

33 threads or more.

.0.09 per Kg . 0.1125 per Kg. 0.15 per Kg. 0.225 per Kg. 0.30 per kg. 0.45 per Kg. 0.42 per Kg. 0.48 per Kg. 0.60 per Kg.

NOTES :
Fabrics of this Item, white or partly bleached, shall be subject to the duties on the fabric plus a surtax of 25%.
Fabrics of this Item, dyed a single coler, shall be subject to the duties on the fabric plus a surtax of 40%.

Fabrics of this Item, printed or dyed with stripes, squares or other designs , shall be subject to the duties on the fabric , with a reduction of 4% in letters J, K, L, M, N and O and with a surtax of 20% in letters P, Q and R.

All Sub-items of this Item have & toms surtax in addition to the assessed duties , in each case, amounting to 30% (Law of August 9 , 1932) .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A605

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II (continued)

Cuben Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rat: of duty

Fabrics of rayon , nylon or other similar synthetic yarn, plain, smooth, twilled or damasked, unbleached , weighing from and including 10 kilograms to but not including 20 kilograms për 100 square meters :

134-J 134-K 134-L 134134-N 134-0 134-P 134-6 134-R

Up to

8 threads.

From 9 to 12 threads .

Fron 13 to 16 threads.

From 17 to 20 threads .

From 21 to 24 thrads.

From 25 to 28 threads .

From 29 to 32 threads .

From 33 to 36 threads .

37 threads or more.

0.10
0.135 0.19 0.30 0.40 0.50 0.48 0.56 0.64

por Xg. per kg, per kg. par kg. per kg. per kg. per kg.
Kg.

NOTES:
Fabrics of this Item, white or partly bleached, shall be subject to the duties on the fabric plus a surtax of 25% .
Fabrics of this Item, dyed a single color, shall be subject to the duties on the fabric, plus & surtax of 40%.
Fabrics of this item , printed or dyed with stripes, squares or other designs , shall be subject to the duties on the fabric, with a reduction of 4% in letters J , K, L , M, N and 0 and with a surtax of 20% in letters P, Q and R.
All Sub-items of this Itam have a customs surtax in addition to the assessed duties , in each case, amounting to 30% (Law of August 9, 1932) .

95347 0-49-pt. 5- -39

A606

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Fabrics of rayon , nylon or other similar synthetic yarn, plain, smooth, twilled or damasked , unbleached , weighing less than 10 kilograms per 100 square meters :

135-J 135-K 135-L 135-M 135-N 135-0 135-P
135-0 135-R

Up to

8 threads .

From 9 to 12 threads .

From 13 to 16 threads .

From 17 to 20 threads .

From 21 to 24 threads .

From 25 to 28 threads .

From 29 to 32 threads .

From 33 to 36 threads .

37 threads or more.

0.12 0.155 0.20 0.32 0.46 0.55 0.52
0.60 per 0.68

NOTES:
Fabrics of this Item, white or partly bleached, shall be subject to the duties on the fabric with a surtax of 30%.
Fabrics of this Item, dyed a single color, shall be subject to the duties on the fabric plus a surtax of 50%.
Fabrics of this Item, printed or dyed with stripes , squares or other designs , shall be subject to the same duties as on unbleached fabrics in letters J , K , L , M, N and 0 , and with a surtax of 25% in letters P, Q and R.
All Sub-items of this Item have a customs surtax in addition to the assessed duties, in each case , amounting to 30% (Law of August 9 , 1932 ) .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A607

SCHEDULE 1X CUBA PART 11 ( continued )

Cuben Tariff Item
Number 136 136-A 136-B
137-D 137-8 137-F
138-D 138-5 138-F
139-C 139-D 140 140-B 141
141 -C 141-D

Description of Products
Velvet and plush:
Of hemp , flax, ramis , jute or other vegatabia fibers not specifically classified .
of rayon, nylon and other similar synthetic yarns .
Knit fabrics of rayon, nylon and other similar synthetic yarns:
In the piece.
forsted jackets , drawers and undershirts .
Stockings , socks , gloves and other sall articles .
Tulles of rayon , nylon or other similer synthetic yarns :
Plain .
Figured .
Embroidered after weaving .
Lace, blondes and edging of rayon, nylon or other similar synthetic yarns : Woven on the loo or by hand . Plus an ad valorem duty of Fabrics known as open-work or made with darning stitch, made by hand or machine . Carpets : Of rayon, nylon and other similar synthetic fibers . Fabrics known as upholstery; and those of the same class in curtains , table-covers and similar articles , with or without fringe : Of rayon, nylon or other similar synthetic fibers , white or unbleached . Of rayon, nylon or other similar synthetic fibers : printed or dyed a single color , with stripes , squares or other designs .

Rate of duty
not negotiated 0.30 per Kg.
0.60 per Kg. 1.05 per Kg. 3.30 per Kg.
0.78 per Kg. 0.90 por Kg. 1.20 per Kg.
0.90 per Kg . 15% 1.25 per Kg . 0.06 per Kg .
0.36 per Kg. 0.60 per Kg.

A608

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX CUBA

PART II ( continued )

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

142

Trimmings , galloons , ribbons and other

articles of hemp , jute , flax , rami, or

other vegetable fibers :

142-A
142-B 142-C 142-D

Ribbons , braids and galloons , not for ornamental purpose , for finishing clothing and other made-up articles and for manufacturing reins , bridles , cinches and footwear , including " alpargatas" ( twine- soled sandals ).
Trimmings for ornamental purposes , such as tassels , fringes and figured or open-work braids , or with spangles or beading, and fancy ribbons and gallons .
Reins , bridles , cinches end other braided manufactures and cords .
Soles for " alpargatas " ( trine - soled sandals) .

not negotiated
not negotiated not negotiated not negotiated

142-E 142-F

Trimmings, galloons , ribbons and other articles made of rayon , nylon and other similar synthetic or artificial yarns:
Ribbons , braids and galloons , not for ornamental purposes , for finishing clothing and other made-up articles and for manufacturing reins , bridles , cinches and footwear, including "alpargatas " ( twine - soled sandals ) .
Trimmings for ornamental purposes , such as tassels , fringes and figured or open-work braids , or with spangles or beading, and fancy ribbons and gallons .

0.34 per Kg. 1.19 per Kg.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A609

SCHEDULE LX - CUBA PART II ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number
143 143-A
143- B
143-C 143-D
143-E 143-F
147 147-B 147-F
148 148 -A
149 149-A

Description of Products

Rate of duty

GROUP 1.- RAW OR SPUN .
Bristles, hair and horsehair :
Raw, in thread or yarn, washed or dyed, and waste or cuttings for the manufacture of "brochas" (paint brushes ) .
In manufactured articles , including brooms and brushes ( " cepillos " ) , with the exception of toothbrushes , " brochas " ( paint brushes) and artists ' brushes .
"Brochas" (paint brushes ) and artists ' brushes.
Insulating materials for construction purposes , composed principally of mineral or rock wool , or hair felt , including those used for heat, cold or sound insulation .
Toolen felt .
Toothbrushes .
GROUP 2.- FABRICS .
Fabrics of pure or mixed wool : In wearing apparel and knit articles in general , not specifically classified . Swiuing and bathing suits , sweaters and other sportswear , when knitted .
GROUP 1.- YARN .
Silk or floss silk , twisted in thread or yarn, in reels , skeins or other forms for sewing, embroidering or the manufacture of fabrics :
In reels , skeins or in any other form for the mechanical Manufacture of all kinds of fabrics, cords or braids .
GROUP 2.- FABRICS.
In the piece , wearing apparel and other made-up articles : Pure or mixed silk in the piece.

Free 20% ad valorem 27% ad valorem 14% ad valorem 27% ad valorem 0.50 per Kg.
not negotiated 24% ad valorem
7.5% ad valorem
25% ad valorem

A610

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX  CUBA PART 11 ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 149-B 149-E
152
152-A
152-B
152-C
152-D
152-E

Description of Products
Men's and own's underclothing, including stockings and knit articles in general .
Lace, ribbons , blondes , edging , galloons , trimmings of all kinds and other similar mado-up articles .
GROUP 2.- PAPER NOT MADE-UP .
Paper in continuous rolls , folios or sheets , white or colored , glazed or calendered or not , with or without water-marks or pressure marks , not cut to size or painted:
Manufactured on a base of screenings or other ordinary pulp, and of straw, weighing not less than 30 grams per square meter, known as brown paper, wrapping paper or "screenings" papër.
Manufactured on a base of soda pulp ( Kraft) , weighing not less than 10 grams per square mater, commonly known as Kraft paper for packing .
Manufactured on a base of bisulphite pulp, weighing not less than 10 grams per square meter, commonly known as manila paper, fiber paper and cellulose paper.
Manufactured on a base of bisulphite pulp, weighing not less than 10 grams per square meter, used for wrapping fruit ; and glassine paper .
Manufactured on a base of ground wood -pulp , in a proportion of not less than 70%thereof and 30% of bisulphite , weighing not less than 50 nor more than 60 grams per square meter , not glazed , commonly known as newsprint .

Rate of duty 50% ad valorem 30% ad valorem
2.80 per 100 Kgs. 2.975 per 100 Kgs . 3.50 per 100 Kgs . 2.50 per 100 Kgs . 2.40 per 100 Kgs .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A611

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

152-F

Lanufactured on & base of bisulphite or soda pulp, without ground wood pulp , or ith a
proportion of the latter not in excess of 30 ; weighing not less than 60 nor more than 150 grams per square meter, such as sulphite
bond and paper commonly known as paper for books and illustrated papers .

3.50 per 100 Kgs .

152-G

Manufactured on a base of pulp or fibers of flax, hemp, cotton and hat or ry stra or others except that known as rice paper, weighing not less than 15 nor more than 20 gri per square meter, commonly known as cigrette paper.

not negotiated

152-H 152-1

Manufactured from flax pulp or fiber, surfacesized only or surfaco - sized and pulp - sized as well , not cut or ruled, such as that known by the nam of bank paper, and others of high quality .
The paper specified in Sub-Item H of this Item, not containing flax , pulp- sized only , commonly known ac writing paper.

not negotiated 4.80 per 100 Kgs .

152-J

Manufactured entiraly on a base of cotton fiber , or on base of wood pulp or cotton fiber, comwonly known as blotting paper.

2.80 per 100 Kgs .

152-K Other continuous papers not made-up , not specifically classified .

3.60 per 100 Kgs .

152-L

The paper of Item 152- G, known as rice paper GROUP 3.- MANIPULATED PAPA .

not negotiated

154

Paper cut to size:

154-A That included in Items 152-8 and 152-K , 153-A and 150-C, cut to size .

not negotiated

A612

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II (continued)

Cuba Tariff tam
Number 154-B 154-C
155 155-A
155-D 155-E 155-F
155-6 155-J
155155-N

Description of Products
That included in Sub-item 152-1 , cut to size .
That included in Sub- item 152-G for cigarettes. cut to size not exceeding 60 centimeters length by 25 centimeters width .
Janufactures of paper:
In sacks , bags , pauches or other similar articles made-up of paper of the kinds covered by Sub-Items A , B , C and D of Itam 152, not printed , ornamented or stamped other than with the size number or manufacturers ' trademark.
Envelopes .
Capsules and receptables , small paper cups for candies , \bottle caps and waxed straws .
Paper on reels , of any of the classes dutiabl under Sub-Items A, B, C and D of Item 152 , for wrapping, covering or packing, gummed on one side, regardless of its width , commonly used for fastening boxes or packages , not printed , ornamented or stamped other than with size number or manufacturers ' trademark .
Filter paper , in folios or cut in any form.
Abrasive paper , manufactured with glass , sand or pumice stone and other papers for smoothing or polishing .
Toilet tissue , paper towels , handkerchiefs and napkins .
Manufactures of paper not specifically classified and those in which paper constitutes the element of greatest value .

Rate of duty not negotiated not negotiated
4.20 per 100 Kgs . 0.105 per Kg. 5.25 per 100 Kgs.
4.30 per 100 Kgs . 3.60 per 100 Kgs . 1.50 per 100 Kgs . 4.80 per 100 Kgs . 0.078 per Kg.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A613

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

156 156-A
156-B
156-C 156-D 156-E 156-F 156-G 156-H
157 157-A

Chemical papers:

Having one or both sides covered with a coat of white lead or barium sulphate , kaolin , talc , etc. , called artists ' paper, " Couche" or chrome paper, commonly used for printing or lithography.
Impregnated , or coated with grease , oil , wax, paraffin , stearine , rubber , glue , etc. , whether or not printed , typographed or lithographed , commonly known as waterproof paper; and tarred paper, reinforced or not with open-weave fabric of textile fibers , commonly used for baling.
Carbon paper.

2.40 per 100 Kgs.
3.60 per 100 Kgs. 3.60 per 100 Kgs.

Sensitized paper for photographic use or for reproductions .
Gilded , silvercd , nickeled , coated with quicksilver, etc. , in sheets or strips , including paper or cardboard coated with aluminium, whether plain , fancy, colored or embossed.

4.50 per 100 Kgs. 0.07 per Kg.

Transparent sheeting of cellulose or of any
cellulose derivative , plain or colored , printed or not , cut to size or in rolls.

0.07 per Kg.

Capsules and bands for bottles and tubes , including synthetic sausage casings of all kinds , made of cellulose or of any cellulose derivative , plain or colored , printed or not.

0.091 per Kg.

Other chemical papers , not specifically classified.
GROUP 4. - PATER PRINTED , ENGRAVED, LITHOGRAPHED OR PHOTOGRAPHED.

0.07 per Kg.

Printed :

Books , except text-books , bound or not , includ-

A614

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

157-A 158 159 159-A
159-C 159-E 159-G
161 161-A

ing the backs when of cardboard or of cardboard and cloth; and printed music .
Printed letterheads , forms for invoices , labels , chacks , bills of exchange , accounts , receipts , bills of lading and similar forms .
Engravings , photographs, lithographs , chromolithographs , oleographs , and any other class of reproduction not specifically classified :
From one to three printings , including articles printed with bronze powder (counting the printing in bronze as three printings and uncolored embossing or relief work as one printing) , excluding printing in whole or in part in metal leaf .
From four to seven printings (counting the printing in bronze as three printings and uncolored embossing or relief work as one printing) excluding printing in whole or in part in metal leaf.
From eight to ten printings (counting the printing in bronze as three printings and uncolored embossing or relief work as one printing ) excluding printing in whole or in part in metal leaf.
Of more than ten printings (counting the printing in bronze as three printings and uncolored embossing or relief work as one printing ) including all articles printed in whole or in part in metal leaf, or on cigarbands, regardless of the number of printings .
GROUP 6.- CARDBOARD AND BRISTOL- BOARD AND MANUFACTURES THEREOF .
Cardboard, pasteboard and bristol-board, in shastr or rolls :
Ordina paperboard or pasteboard for cor-

0.70 per 100 Kgs . 0.16 per Kg.
0.21 per Kg. 0.35 per Kg. 0.50 per Kg. 1.05 per Kg.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A615

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II (oontimed)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

161-A 161-B
161-C 161 -D 161 -E

rugating, with a thickness not exceeding .01 of an inch , manufactured on a base of rye straw or other similar straws or sulphate pulp, provided that it is not glazed , colored, nor covered with paper or mineral substance .
Ordinary paperboard or pasteboard manufactured on a base or wholly of waste paper or newspaper, in natural color as manufactured , including those known as " chipboard" and "newsT board" .
NOTE: Paperboard or past board manufactured on a base of mechanical food pulp in combination with bisulphite pulp, containing not less than 70% of mechanical wood pulp , shall be classified under item 161-B as paperboard or pasteboard made from waste paper or newspaper .
Ordinary paperboard or past board manufactured on a base of or entirely of wastepaper or newspaper, but colored on one or both faces , or covered with white or colored paper not of a fancy nature , including those known as "chipboard" and " newsboard", also colorad or covered with paper .
Fine and heavy Kraftboard , not specifically classified , manufactured principally from sulphate pulp; and manila board or imitations of manila board manufactured on a base of a combination of sulphite wood pulp and mechanical wood pulp or old waste rope or bagging and coated or lined with white or colored paper.
Paperboard coated with white lead , kaolin or other similar substances and all other ordinary cardboards not specifically classified , whether or not covered with white, colored , lustrous or fancy paper.

Rate of duty 0.70 per 100 Kgs . 1.625 per 100 Kgs .
1.80 per 100 Kgs . 1.80 per 100 Kgs . 1.95 per 100 Kgs .

A616

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

161 -F

Bristol-board and fine cardboard manufactured
wholly of sulphite pulp or fiber of flax (lino) or rags , colored or not , coated or uncoated , or covered or not with white , colored , painted , lustrous or fancy paper; whether or not embossed (stamped) or with any other kind of work.

162 Manufactures of cardboard and of bristol-board:

3.30 per 100 Kgs.

162-J
162-M 162-N 162-P

Exterior cases in which goods are imported , made of any kind of cardboard or any combination of cardboard and fabric , whether or not waterproofed , with or without printing.
Playing cards of all kinds.
Cardboard hoods and discs for milk bottles , whether plain or printed.
Tabulating index cards.

1.25 per 100 Kgs. 0.24 per Kg.
3.50 per 100 Kgs. 7.50 per 100 Kgs.

162-Q

Other manufactures of bristol-board , fine cardboard, or cardboard , not specifically classified . 8.50 per 100 Kgs.
GROUP 1.- WOOD.

165 Ordinary wood , in logs , or rough sawn or unplaned:

165- B

Gumwoods , including tupelo , regardless of size or form, in logs , or rough sawn or unplaned , and unplaned veneers of the same woods.

165-C

I Other ordinary woods ,

including spruce ( Picea

I sp. ) , regardless of size or form, in logs , or

rough sawn or unplaned , but excluding strips.

166 Ordinary woods, further manufactured:

166-A Planed or dovetailed or in strips.

0.08 per 100 Kgs. 0.20 per 100 Kgs. 0.60 per 100 Kgs.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A617

SCHEDULE IX · CUBA PART II ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 166-B 166-C 166-D 166-E 166-F 166-G 166-H 169 169-B
176 176-F 176-G
175-H
279
179-B

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Plywood , except when in the form of box shooks, Box shooks . Crate shooks.

0.30 per 100 Kgs. 0.96 per 100 Kgs. See Part I.

Cases or boxes of ordinary wood , with wooden divisions for packing bottles.

not negotiated

Crates for packing fruits and vegetable products. Broom handles.

0.08 per 100 Kgs. not negotiated

Packing cases in which articles are imported.

0.335 per 100 Kgs.

Cooperage, knocked down

In unfinished staves. GROUP 2 . - FURNITURE AND MANUFACTURES OF WOOD.

0.12 per 100 Kgs.

Other man. factures of wood;

Toothpicks.

0.024 per Kg.

Utensils and articles in general , produced by carpenters , not specifically classified, when of ordinary wood , worked , not turned or carved.

3.60 per 100 Kgs.

The utensils and articles of the preceding SubItem G, when turned or carved , whether painted or varnished or not.
GROUP 3. - MISCELLANLOUS.

5.20 per 100 kgs.

Rushes , cane, cane fiber , vegetable hair, osiers , palm fronds , wicker , fine straw, esparto, palm and genista, roots , shavings of wood and other similar materials:

The materials specified , cut, bleached or dyed,

1.92 per 100 g

A618

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX CUBA PART II (oontimed)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

GROUP 2.- HIDES AND SKINS AND MANUFACTURES THEREOF .
192 Tanned hides , without hair, in sole-leather suitable for footwear or saddlery, ironed or not, including bellies and necks.
193 Tanned hides without hair, "splits" and similar hides:

193-C In "oplits" chromed or chrome-tanned .

193-D

In thin sole-leather, grained , for belts, leggings and other uses; and leathers of like application, made of ungrained " splits" .

193-F

Entire hides or sheets , tanned by any process, whether or not plain, glazed or grained , in calf, kangaroo, horsehide and similar classes, black or other colors.

193-G Patent leather, in whole hides or sheets.

194 Entire skins and those suitable for upholstering furniture:

194-A Entire sheep skins , in natural finish and colors, glazed or not.

194-B

In goat skin and kid , calf and morocco, white, black or in other colors , varnished or glazed or not.

197 Men's boots, half-boots, shoes and slippers of all kinds and forms, ornamented or not, and with soles of leather, fiber, rubber or any other material, 24-1/2 centimeters insole measurement, or No. 4 English measure for men, or 36-1/2 Spanish or French measure, and over.
Plus an ad valorem duty of

Rate of duty
0.112 per Kg. 0.14 per Kg. 0.175 per Kg. 0.175 per Kg. 0.30 per Kg.
0.21 per Kg. 0.448 per Kg.
0.49 per pair 7%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A619

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Bate of duty

198 Women's and children's boots , half-boots, shoes and slippers of all kinds and forms, ornamented or not, and with soles of leather, fiber, rubber, or any other material , 18-1/2 centimeters insole measurement, or No. 10 English measure for children, or 27-1/2 Spanish or French measure, and over. Plus an ad valores duty of

0.35 per pair 7%

199 Children's boots, half-boots, shoes and alippers of all kinds and forms, ornamented or not, and with soles of leather, fiber, rubber, or any other material, in the sises balow those specified in Item 198 Plus an ad valorem duty of
NOTE: The additional duty on rubber heels shall not applyto the footwear included in Items 197, 198 and 199 of the Customs Tariff of the Republic of Cuba.

0:21 per pair

202 Leggings , balts and other manufactures of leather, or lined, covered, reinforced or combined with leather or skins, not speci-
fically classified:

202-D

Other manufactures of leather or skin, or covered, lined, reinforced or combined with leather, the manufacture of which pertains to the saddlery, harnessmaking or shoemaking trades, and not specifically classified . Plus an ad valorem duty of

0.56 par Kg. 148

GROUP 3.- MISCELLANEOUS.

205 205-B

Intestines , dried or in brine: Intestines in brine. GROUP 1. MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS AND PARTS THEREOF.

2.00 per 100 Kgs.

207 207-C

Pianos, player-pianos , phonographs and similar articles, and accesories thereof:
Phonographs .

20% ad valorem

A620

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

207-D 207- E 207-H 207-1 207-J
211 211 -C 211-D 213 213-A 214

Phonograph records .
Accesories and spare parts for phonographs .
Radio and television receiving and transmitting sets, whether complete or chassis alone .
Parts and accesories , including tubes , for radio and television receiving and transmitting sets, and tubes for film reproducing &ppar- tus.
Cinematographic projection apparatus for both pictures and sound, and parts and accessories therefor, including projection arc lamps , motion picture sound discs and apparatus of any kind for the reproduction of sound adaptable to cinematographic projection, except tubes .
GROUP 2 . CLOCKS, WATCHES, APPARATUS, MACHINERY AND MISCELLANEOUS INSTRUMENTS .
Watches, clocks and chronometers:
Alarm clocks of ordinary metal.
Clocks worked by weights , wall clocks , table clocks and any others not specifically classified .
Scientific apparatus and parts therefor:
Scientific apparatus used in physics laboratories and those for geodetic , surveying and nautical use.
Platform scales , steelyards , balances and other apparatus for weighing , including loose parts and accesories for the same .

0.07 per unit 15% ad valorem 20% ad valorea 10% ad valorem
16% ad valorem
10% ad valorem 15% ad valores
10.5% ad valorem 12% ad valoran

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A621

SCHEDULE IX CUBA PART II ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

215 216 216-B
216-C
217 218 218-1

Machinery or apparatus for manu'acturing or refining sugar or alcohol , including loose parts and accessories for the same, not specifically classified.
Agricultural and industrial machinery and instruments :
Machinery, portable or fixed , apparatus or instruments for industry in general and for the transformation of products used in manufactures , including those used in aqueducts, not specifically provided for, and including loose parts and accessories for the same , not specifically classified.
Instruments and apparatus for measuring to be used in connection with agricultural and industrial machinery and apparatus , such as thermometers , manometers, pyrometers , pressure gauges , carbon dioxide gauges and vacuum gauges , etc.
Motors of all kinds , fixed or not, including windmills, and the loose parts and accessories for the same, not specifically classified .
Pumps of all kinds , including loose parts and accessories for the same not specifically classified :
Pumps of all kinds,

7.98% ad valorem
7.98 ad valorem 10. ad valorem
7.98% ad valorem 7.98% ad valorem

95347 O 49-pt. 540

A622

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

218-B Loose parts and accessories for pumps of all kinds , not specifically classified .

219 Boilers of all kinds for gnerating steam and parts and accessories for the same:

219-h Boilers of all kinds for generating steam.

219- B

Parts and accessories of iron and steel , for boilers for generating stean, including "fluss" and tubes , whether or not cut to measure and with or without threads.

219-C

"Fluss" and completely finished loose parts and accessories for boilers , of copper or its alloys , not specifically classified .

220 Locomotives and other tractive equipment on rails, and loose parts and accessories for the same, not specifically classified .

221 Turntables , cranes and cane loaders, including loose parts and accessories for the same , not specifically classified:

221-A

Turntables and cranes , including loose parts and accessories for the same, not specifically classified .

221-B Can loaders, with or without scales.

221-C Loose parts and accessories not specifically classified for cane loaders .

222 Office appliances and loose parts and accessories for the same, not specifically classified :

222-A

Office appliances , including typewriting machines , check protectors ; sales registering machines and cash registers ; machines for recording and reproducing dictation and conversation , including cylinders and machines forcleaning and shaving the sam- ; calculating, bookkeeping, addressing mechines; and all other machines for use in ofJices, banks , etc.

Rate of duty 5% ad valorem 14% ad valorem 10% ad valore 15% ad valorem 10% ad valorm
12% ad valoram 24% ad valorem 15% ad valorem
14% vlor

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A623

SCHEDULE D - CUBA PART II (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Humber

Description of Products

Rate of duty

222-B

Loose parts and accessories not specifically classified for office appliances in general, including ribbons for machines.

223 Telephones, electric apparatus and machinery of all kinds, including loose parts and accessories for the same, not specifically classified, including batteries and storage batteries.

224

Machines for sewing, abroidering and similar

machines, including needles:

224-4

Machines for sewing, >mbroidering, spinning and weaving, and similar machines, and loose parts and accessories for the same, not specifically classified .

224-B Needles for machines included in Sub-Item  of this Item

225

Mechanical combination refrigerators and

other sachines and apparatus not for indus-

trial use and not specifically classified:

225-A Mechanical combination refrigerators of all kinds.

225-B

Other machinery and apparatus not for industrial use and not specifically classified, inaluding loose parts and accessories for the $420.

GROUP 3.- CARRIAGES , AUTOMOBILES , TRACTORS , WAGONS, CARS AND OTHER VEHICLES .

227

Carriages, automobiles, velosipedes and

bicycles :

227-B

Finished automobiles, with bodies mounted, of any material , whose list price in the factory does not exceed seven hundred and fifty dollars (2750.00) .

12% ad valorem 11.9% ad valorem 4% ad valorem S++ Part 1 11.9% ad valorem 15.96% ad valorem
10% ad valorem

A624

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX · CUBA PART II (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

227-C 227-D

Finished automobiles , ith bodies mounted , of any material, whose list price in the factory is more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00 ) but not more then one thousand! five hundred dollars ( 1,500.00) .
Finished automobiles , with bodies mounted , of any material , whose list price in the factory is more than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) but not more than two thousand three hundred dollars ( $2,300) .

12% ad valorem 15% ad valorem

227-E

Finished automobiles , with bodies mounted, of any material , whose list price in the factory is more than two thousand three hundred dol-
lars ($2,300.00 ) .

21% ad valorem

227-F 227-G

Finished trucks , with mounted bodies , of Rood and metal , in which wood predominates ,
The same with bodies of steel or other metal .

not negotiated 14% ad valorem

227-H Automobile chassis without bodies .

not negotiated

227-1

Truck chassis with or without cabs for ohauf-
feur, in which metal predominates , but without bodies , and bus chassis without bodies.

5% ad valorem

227-J Eodies for automobiles , made of steel or other metal, combined or not with wood .

9% ad valor

227-K Bodies for trucks or busses , made of steel or other metal , sembled .

15% ad valorem

227-L Bodies for trucks or bussus , made of steel or other metal , when imported completely unassembled 7.5% ad valorem

227-M Bodies for trucks or busses , made of wood, combined or not withsteel or other metal .

not negotiated

227-N Parts and accessories not specifically classified, for automobiles and trucks .

5% ad valorem

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A625

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II ( contizmed)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 227-0 227-P 227-Q
227-8 227-S 228 229 229-A 229-B 229-C 231
234
238 238-C

Description of Products
Tractora .
Loose parts and accessories for tractors , not specifically classified.
Motorcycles and the like, and loose parts and accessories for the same not specifically classified.
Velocipedes and bicycles.
Loose parts and accessories for the same, not specifically classified . Railway passenger coaches, of all clas898 .
Box cars, railway cars and mine cars:
Box care and all kinds of cars for railways. Parts and accessorios for box cars and railway cars, not specifically classified . Mine cars .
Wagons, carts and push-carts, for hand or animal traction .
GROUP 4.- MARITIME SHIPPING AND AIRSHIPS .
Airplanes, hydroplanes , dirigible belloons , and in general all equipment for aerial navigation, and loose parts and accessories for the same . GROUP 1.- MEAT AND FISH, BUTTER AND FATS .
Meet in brine or salted :
Pork, except the products included in letters A and B of Item 241 .

Rate of duty 4% ad valora 4% ad valorem 15% ad valorem 10.5% ad valorem 8% ad valor 12% ad valorem 24% ad valor 15% ad valorem not negotiated 16% ad valorem
8% ad valorem
9.00 per 100 Kgs.

A626

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Bate of duty

239
240
241 241-A 241-B 242 242-A 242-B 246 246-C 246-8
240-7 246-G

Pure hog lard, neutral hog lard, lard oil , lard stearine and any other edible derivative of hog lard except hydrogenated hog lard .
Compound lard, that is, & mixture of animal and/or vegetable oils and fats in any proportion, and hydrogenated animal and vegetable oils and fats .
Bacon and " tocinetas " , salted or smoked:
Bacon or salted and smoked pork.
"Tocin te" or fat pork, merely salted.
Hans or shoulders :
Cured or smoked .
Sugar-cured or otherwise prepared.
Milk:
Condensed, evaporated or concentrated, with or without suger and crean.
Milk called modified or "humanized", by any process, in powder, to be employed exclusively for ill and convalescent persons and for the artificial lactation of children, provided it comes in glass or tin containers , holding not more than 16 ounces net and with the use indicated on said containers .
Malted .
In other forms , including any kind of "skimmed milk" , provided it is not of the kinds comprised under letter " g" .

3.20 par 100 Kgs.
12.00 per 100 Ega. 13.125 per 100 Kgs. 7.50 per 100 Kgs . 14.42 par 100 Kgs. 21.00 per 100 Kgs.
5.70 per 100 Kgs .
6.40 per 100 Kgs . 8.00 per 100 Kgs. 10.00 per 100 Kgs,

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A627

SCHEDULE IX · CUBA PART II (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

251 251-A
253 253-B

Oysters , shellfish and fish not specifically classified :
Oysters of all kinds and dried or fresh shellfish.

4.00 per 100 Kgs.

GROUP 2. CEREALS.
Rice: Hulled , suitable for consumption, and semihulled.

1.85 per 100 Kgs.

Note: Rice, hulled, suitable for consumption, and semi-hulled, imported in
excess of a total quantity of 3,250,000 quintales from all countries in any calendar year , shall be subject to duty at a rate not
in excess of 3.70 pesos per 100 kilograms when imported from the United States of
America, Provided: that the tariff quota of 3,250,000 quintales shall be increased for any calendar year by the amount which the Government of the
Republic of Cuba may determine to be necessary to supply the difference between the estimated Cuban production of rice and the total estimated
Cuban consumption of rice in such calendar year, and so much of such increased amount as may be imported from the United States of America shall be subject to duty at a rate not in excess of 1.85 pesos per 100 kilograms. Whenever it is determined by the Government of the Republic of Cuba that the quantity of rice permitted to be imported within the tariff quota provided for in this Note should be allocated among supplying countries , the shares allocated shall be in proportion to the imports from such countries during
the 10 calendar years immediately preceding the first year in which such allocation is made.

A628

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX CUBA PART II ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

256 256-A 256-C 256-D
256-E 256-F 256-G 256-H
257 257-B 257-C
257-E 258 258-A 259 259-A
259-B
260
260-B

Flour, meal and semolina: Wheat flour. of corn.
of oats, including oats prepared for food (rolled oats). Of other cereals. Wheat semolina. Corn flakes. Other ready-to-eat cereals. GROUP 3. · VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. Beans and lentils:
Red and pink beans.
White, and those commonly known as white navy beans .
Other beans and lentils. Peas and chick-peas (garbanzos) : Peas .
Onions and garlic:
Onions imported from November 15th to May 31st , inclusive , of each year.
Onions imported from June 1st to November 14th, inclusive, of each year.
Potatoes and other fresh vegetables and garden truck:
Potatoes not specifically classified , imported from Nov. 1st to June 30th , incl . , of each year.

Rate of duty
0.63 per 100 Kgs. 3.64 per 100 Kgs. 1.30 per 100 Kgs. not negotiated 2.10 per 100 Kgs. 3.64 per 100 Kgs. 1.30 per 100 Kgs.
3.75 per 100 Kgs. 2.00 per 100 kgs. 3.00 per 100 Kgs. 1.00 per 100 Kgs.
4.00 per 100 Kgs. 1.50 per 100 kgs.
4.00 per 100 Kgs.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A629

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 260-C 260-D
260-E
260-F
260-G 260-H 262 262-B 262-0 262-D
262-E
262-F

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Potatoes not specifically classified , imported in the months of July and October of each year. 2.00 per 100 Kgs .

Potatoes not specifically classified , imported in the months of August and September of each year .
Cauliflower, celery, cucumbers , and other fresh garden truck, with the exception of tomatoes and cabbages , imported from November 1st to May 31st inclusive , of each year.

1.00 per 100 Xgs. 1.60 pr 100 Xgs.

Cauliflower, celery, cucumbers , and other fresh garden truck, with the exception of tomatoes and cabbages , imported from June 1st to October 31st, inclusiv , of each year.
Tomatoes and cabbages , fresh .

1.20 par 100 Kga. 1.60 per 100 Kgs.

Other fresh garden truck not specifically classified .
Fresh fruits:

not negotiated

Apples, pears , peaches , plums , cherries , grapes , nectarines and apricots .
Apples and pearr imported from April 1st to July 31st , inclusive , of each yer.
Strawberrier imported during the period from March 1st to November 30, inclusive , of each  .

0.80 par 100 Kgs. not negotiated 0.80 per 100 Kgs .

Strawberries imported during the period from December 1st in any year to the last day of the following February, inclusive .
Melons imported from February 1st to July 14th, -nclusive , of each ym .

not negotiated not negotiated

A630

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

262-G 262-H

Melons imported from July 15th to January 31st, inclusive, of each year.
Others.

264

Dried or evaporated fruits :

264-A

Figs and raisins.

264-B

Other dried or evaporated fruits.

265

Chestnuts, walnuts, filberts and similar muts:

265-B

Walnuts, filberts and similar nuts,

GROUP 4.- SEEDS AND FEED FOR ANIMALS.

269

Feed for animals:

269-E 269

Grape ( olive) bagasse, cakes, pastes, powders and meal of alfalfa and of oleaginous seeds, except the meal and cakes of peanuts; pulpa, dregs and residues from industries, suitable for the feeding of livestock and other uses.
Meal and cakes of peanuts,

269-G

Birdseed, panic seed and hemp seed,

269-H

Feed for fowls ; mixtures of three or more
grains, crushod, such as corn, wheat, oats, sunflower, eto,; mixtures or compositions of animal substances , with or without other substances, finely ground ; and oyster shells orushed for the same purpose.

269-I

Other feeds not specifically classified.

GROUP 5.- CANNED GOODS.

270

Fish or shellfish canned in oil or in any other

form, in tin or other containers :

270-E

Sardines, not boned, in tomato sauce or oil, of

Rate of duty not negotiated not negotiated 1,365 per 100 Kgs. 1.365 per 100 Xgs. 1,20 per 100 Kgs.
0.60 per 100 Kgs. 1.20 per 100 Kgs. not negotiated
1.20 per 100 Kgs. 2.60 per 100 Kgs.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A631

SCHEDULE IX · CUBA PART II (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

270-E common or ordinary class.

270-G Salmon.

270-H Mackerel .

270-1

Other fish and shellfish, not specifically classified .
Plus an ad valorem duty of

271 Vegetables canned and packed in any form:

271-A Tomatoes and tomato paste

271-F Canned peas, Ewest corn and asparagus .

NOTE: Articles included in Sub-item 271-F shall be classified under this Sub-itam evÓN when strained , but not including vegetable Juices .

271-G Paprika and other vegetables not specifically classified .

NOTE : Articles included in Sub-item 271 -G shall be classified under this Sub-itn even when strained, but not including vg+table juices .

271-H

Canned beans of all kinds, whether or not propared or flavored with meat, condiments or siciler substances .

272 Preserved fruits, in brandy, syrup, or in any other form:

272-B Apples , pears, peaches, plums, apricots, cherries and berries , including their mixtures.

0.024 per Kg. 0.039 per Kg. 0.028 per Kg. 0.05 per Kg. 7% 0.126 per Kg. 0.02 per Kg.
0.042 per Kg.
0.042 per Kg.
0.03 per Kg.

A632

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number 273 273-A 273-B 273-C 273-D
273-E 273-F
273-G 273-H
273-1
274 274-C

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Other preserved foods :

Beef, mutton or pork , in tin canc .
beef , mutton or pork, ground, pressed or in paste, for lunch.
Seusage, ortad÷lla and other similar stuffed products .

0.30 per Kg. 0.21 per Kg. not negotiated

Sauces , mustards and seasoning extracts , and similar seasonings of all kinds, not specifically provided for , including mayonnaise and salad dressings , excluding ketchup and other tomato sauces .

0.042 per Kg .

Fowl , foie-gras, truffles and other similar articles .

not negotiated

Canned soups of all kinds , except tomato soup, whether or not prepared with meat products , condiments or similar substances .

0.055 per Kg.

Canned tomato soups, whether or not prepared with meat products or similar substances .

0.10 per Kg.

Dehydrated soupe of all kinds , whether or not
prepared with meat products , condiments or similar substances .

0.072 per Kg.

Other preserved foods not specifically classified .
GROUP 6.- CILS AND BEVERAGES .

0.11 par Kg.

Olive oil and other vegetable oils , pure, refined , semi -refined , or hydrogenated :

Refined cottonseed , corn and soybean oil .

3.01 per 100 Kgs .

NOTE: Vegetable oils included in Sub

274-C ,

when hydrogenated , shall be classified under

Item 240, which specifically includes hydro-

genated animal ani vegetable oils and fetc .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A633

SCHEDULE IX -CUBA PART II ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

274-D

Other refined vegetable oils not specifically olassified.

4.025 per 100 Kgs.

276 276-D 280 280-A 280-B

NOTE: Vegetable oils included in Sub-item 274-D, when hydrogenated, shall be classified under Item 240, which specifically includes hydrogenated animal and vegetable oils and fats.

Brandy, rum, gin, liquors, oogmaos, cordials and all spirituous compounds not specifically classified, and whiskey:
Whiskey in bottles, flasks, demijohns and other similar containers.
Cider, ginger-ale and root beer; unfermented grape juice and other non-alcoholic beverages and soft-drinks, not specifically classified :
Articles of this Item, not specifically classified, when imported in barrels, halfbarrels or other similar containers.

0.20 per Liter not negotiated

Natural or artificial oider and unfermented grape juice, in bottles, flasks, demijohns or other similar containers.

0.0273 per Liter

280-G

Root beer and other non-alcoholic beverages and soft-drinks not specifically classified, when imported in bottles, flasks, demijohns or other similar containers.

0.063 per Liter

280-H

Juices of apples, pears, plums, cherries and berries, when imported in bottles, flasks, demijohns or other similar containers.

0.035 per Liter

A634

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART II (contimed)

Cuben Tariff Item
Number 286 286-A
288 288-A 289 289-A 289-B 289-C

Description of Products

Rate of duty

GROUP 7.- MISCELLANEOUS.

Coffee, chicory root and chicory:

Coffee, in the bean, green.

25.60 per 100 Kgs .

NOTE: At such time as the production of coffee
in the Republic of Cubs is inadequate to mest the requirements for local consumption, the Minister of Agriculture of Cuba shall so declare and for the duration of the period cov-
ered by such a declaration, coffee produced in Puerto Rico, if dutiable upon importation, shall be admitted into the Republic of Cuba at a rate
of duty not in excess of 50 per cantum of the
lowest rate applicable to coffee of any other origin, but such rat- applicable to coffee produced in Puerto Rico shall in no case exceed -
$16.00 per one hundred kilograms .

Manufactured cocoa :

Cocoa ground or in paste form , cocoa without mixture; chocolate , bonbons , tablets , candies and sweetmeats of which cocoa or chocolate forms a part.
Sweetened pastes , jellies and gelatine ; marmalade, quince paste, caramels; sweetmeats and candies of all kinds and chewing gum:

0.48 per Kg.

Sweetened pastes, jellies and gelatine, marmalade , quince paste , caramels ; sweetmeats and candies of all kinds, not specifically classified .
Jams , Jellies and marmalades made of apples, poches, apricots , plums , grapes , cherries, quinces , currants and berries.
Chewing gum.

0.18 per Kg.
0.15 per Kg. 0.12 per Kg.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A635

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART 11 (continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

290 Pastes and feculas for soup and other food purposes :

290-A

Spaghetti , vermicelli , noodles , acaroni , stars , letters and other forms of flour past and any other paste for soups .

290-B Tapioca, starch of potato , of peas , of rice and others for food purpos18 .

290-C Edible starch and fecula of corn .

290-D Yeast .

291 Crackers :

291-A Ordinary, that is , those composed of flour, salt, and water , with or without shortening.

291 -B

Fine crackers of all classes , including those in the manufacture of which there enter butter , ggs, sugar, essences or sweets of any kind , and those made with chocolate , cocoa butter,
almonds , nuts or sweetmeats of any kind, provided that they do not contain more than 20% of chocolate or sweetmeats , including the inmediate container.

291 -C

Fine crackers provided for under 291-B when they contain more than 20% and less than 30% of chocolate or sweetmeats , including the immediate container .

297 Manufactured tobacco:

297-C Smoking tobacco manufactured in any form.

297-2 Cigarettes . Plus an ad valorum duty of

Rate of duty
4.80 per 100 Kgs . 6.00 per 100 Kgs. 2.75 per 100 Kgs. not negoti: ted 3.20 per 100 Kgs .
6.40 per 100 Kgs .
not negotiated 8.80 per Kg. 4.00 per Kg. 20%

A636

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE 1 CUBA

PART II (continued)

Cuban Tariff ltem
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

302 Horn, whalebone, bone and ivory nut; and galalith , synthetic resins , celluloid , cellulose acetate and other cellulose plastics , including all the materials and articles which imitate those included in this Item and Itan 301 , in a solid state, with or without fillers :

302 -A

Unmanufactured, or in plates or stripe as raw material , and strips and plates laminated or not .

0.10 per Kg.

302-B In buttons having a diameter of 2 sentimeters or less .

1.68 per Kg.

302-C In buttons having a diameter of more than 2 centimeters .

1.20 per kg.

302-D Manufactures of horn, whel sbona, bon , ivory nut and celluloid , not specifically classified .

1.05 per Kg.

302-3

Personal adornments and knick-knacks manufacturad of galalith, synthetic resins , cellulose acetate and other cellulose plastics , in a solid state, with or without fillers .

0.90 per kg.

302-F

Other manufactures which imitate the material included in Letter D and in Itam 301 , including articles made of galalith, synthetic resins , cellulose acetate and other callulose plastics , in a solid state , with or without fillers , when not constituting articles of personal adornment and knick-knacks .

0.48 per kg .

306 Cartridges , shells and percussion caps :

306-A Empty cartridges for hunting arms and percussion caps therefor.

13.00 per 100 Kgs.

306-B Loaded cartridges for hunting arms .

24.00 per 100 Kgs .

306-C Shells or cartridges for firearms , not for hunting and not prohibited .

36.00 per 100 Kgs.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A637

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA

PARTI 11 ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

307 Indie rubber or gutte percha and synthetic rubber in manufactured articles and packing:

307-A 307-B

Hubber pipe and accessories for machinery and apparatus .
Heels for shoes .

0.04 per Kg. 0.20 per Kg.

307-D

Canvas footwear with a one -piece rubber sole, without heel , 24-1/2 centimeters insole measurement and over .

0.31 per pair

307-E

Canvas footwear with a one-piece rubber sol ,
without heal , from 18-1/2 to 24-1/2 centimeters insole measurement.

0.26 per pair

307-F

Canvas footwear with a one-piece rubber sole , without heel , of less than 18-1/2 centimeters insole measurement.

0.22 per pair

307-J Packing of all kinds .

0.04 per Kg .

307-K

All other articles not specifically classified , including rubber bathing caps and rubber thread, whether or not wound with cotton, silk or rayon, for sewing or for manufacturing rubber textiles .

0.1625 per Kg.

308 308-A

Belting for power transmission: Leather .

14% ad valorem

308-B 308-C

Natural or synthetic rubber . Cotton canvas.

16% ad valorem 14% ad valorem

309 Tarpaulins and tarred or pitchy felt and waste :

309-A Sanded or tarred tarpaulins of canvas or other fabrics .

0.064 per Kg.

95347 O 49- pt. 5- 41

A638

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCB

CUBA

PART 11 ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

310 310-A 312 312-B 312-C
312-D

Artificial plants and flowers : of cloth, wax, wood or other substances . Oilcloth and linoleum: Linoleum.
Desk-pads , portfolios and other manufactures of oilcloth . Other classes of oilcloth .

2.40 per Kg.
0.20 per Kg. 0.375 per Kg. 0.06 per Kg.

313 314
314-B 314-C

Games, toys and other articles of amusement or diversion, not specifically classified .
Tires of rubber or synthetic rubber, or of these materials combined with fabrics , for all kinds of vehicles , and inner tubes :
Hollow tires .
Inner tubes .

15% ad valorem
0.25 per Kg. 0.265 per Kg.

315
318 318-A 318-B

Hose of rubber or synthetic rubber, or with mixtures of other material , or of other material only, siaple or reinforced with wire .
Films and plates for photography and cinematography:
Sensitized film for cinematography .
Cinematograph films exposed or prepared for exhibition.
NOTE: Cinematograph films classified under SubItem 318-B , way be imported temporarily under bond for preliminary showing to distributors and for purposes of censorship , and no duties shall be collected on such films which are not released for distribution or which are refused by the censorship board , provided they have not been exhibited publicly and

0.04 per Kg.
0.60 per Kg. 4.80 per Kg.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A639

SCHEDULE IX · CUBA PART II ( continued)

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

318-B

NOTE ( continued)

are reexported within a maximum period of 30 days from the date on which they are withdrawn from customs.

318-C 318-D

Cinematograph films, 16 millimeters or less in width, exposed or prepared for exhibition and to be used for non-commercial purposes ; and all films imported expressly for educational purposes, previously authorized by the Ministry of Education,
Film for photograph cameras,

318-E

Glass photograph plates.

321 321-B
321322

Hats, bonnets and caps of all kinds :
of felt, rabbit hair and other similar material, for men and boys.
Crowns, for hats.
Waterproof fabrics, that is, those covered on one or both sides with a coating of rubber or aynthetic rubber and also those having an interior coating of rubber or synthetic rubber :

322-A 322-B 322-C 323

of cotton in the piece, for automobile tops or upholstering.
Other materials of ootton in the piece, including rubber friction tape.
C cotton, in manufactured articles.
All other manufactured articles not included, generically or specifically, in any of the preceding Items, and the assimilation whereof to those bearing greatest resemblance has not been directed by the Treasury Department, for inclusion in the classification to be opportunely added to this Tariff.

Rate of duty
2.40 per Kg. P.375 per Kg. not negotiated 18.2% ad valorem 16 ad valorem
0.096 per Kg. 0.21 per Kg. 0.60 per Kg.
22% ad valorem

A640

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA PART 11 ( concluded) and Purel Notes

Cuban Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

324 324-A
324-B

All other raw materials:
All other raw materials , subject to the conditions specified in Item 323 for unclassified manufactures, except calcium carbids.
Calcium carbide.

Articles which would have been entitled to
preferential exemption from duty or import tax if imported into the Republic of Cuba on April 10 , 1947 , as products of the United States of America .

Rate of daty
not negotiated not negotiated
Free, subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article I of this Agreement, in the event that the mostfavored-nation rate on any such product is modified .

GENERAL NOTES
1 Products described in Part 11 of this Schedule shall upon importation into the Republic of Cuba be exempt from payment of the 20 percent surtax of duty established by Fiscal Emergency Law No. 28 , of September 8, 1941 , with the exception of products classified under Sub-items 10-D , 11 -C , 82-A, 260-B and 321-3. There shall also be exempt from payment of this surtax the products classified under Sub-items 102-C and 216-A , and under Items 254 and 299 , which are not included in Part II of this Schedule.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A641

SCHEDULE IX - CUBA General Notes ( concluded)

·

11 - The rato of the Public Works surtax established by Decree 2296 , of August 30 , 1934 , shall not exceed 3% in respect of products described in Part II of this Schedule , which are classified under Tariff Items Nos. 34-B, 143-B, 143-C , 207 -H , 207-1 , 211 -D , 302 -B, 302-C and 323.
111 - The customs tariff tare system established under Provision Third of the Arancel de Aduanas de la Republica de Cuba, in its Rules First to Fourteenth, applicable to the Items included in this Schedule , shall remain in force as set forth in said Provision , except as expressly modified in Part I and Part 11 of this Schedule .
IV Except as otherwise provided in Part II of this Schedule, the " notes" relating to the products therein described ( except for the "not negotiated" items) which now appear in the Arancel de Aduanas de la Republica de Cuba , shall be considered an integral part of Part 11 of this Schedule .
V - Whenever the term "not negotiated" appears in the " rate of duty" column of Part 1 or of Part 11 of this Schedule , it is to be understood that the Item or Sub-item in question has been inserted only because of the necessity of making certain changes in its structure or nomenclature , as a result of tariff negotiations . Therefore , in regard to such items or Sub-items , the Government of the Republic of Cuba reserves its right to change the text , as well as to maintain or modify the present rates of duty set forth in the Cuban Customs Tariff for the products comprised in such "not negotiated " Items and Sub-items .
*****

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A643

SCHEDULE X · CZECHOSLOVAKIA This Schedule is authentic only in the English and French languages.
PART I Hont-Favoured- Nation Tarifi

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products I. COLONIAL ARTICLES .

Rate of duty
Kõ per 100 kilograms :

ex 1 a)

Cocoa beans and husks : raw ..

100-

ex 2 a) 3

Coffee: raw
Tea .....

1650.5000.-

II. SPICES .

ex
ex a) ex 2.
ex 5 ax a)

Pepper (black , white and red Spanish, also paprika , long pepper ; pepper dust ) ; pimento; ginger :
unground otheri pepper (black , white or long) ..... pimento
Cinnamons
unground : other

500,600.-
1500.-

12

ex 6
ex a) 2.

Badian (aniseed star) ; cloves (also mother cloves) ; mace (flower of nutmeg) ; nutmegs unshelled:
unground other

2200,-

ex 7 ex a) 2.

Nutmegs shelled :
unground: other ...

3000, -

ax 8 ex a) 2.

Cardamoms , saffron , vanilla: unground other

3000.-

A644

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

ex 9 ex b)
1.

III. SOUTHERN FRUITS .
Figs : dried : in little boxes , cases or pottles

Note to 9 b) Figs dried , strung or otherwise packed , imported under licence for the manufacture of coffoo-
substitutes , under supervision and on conditions fixed by regulation

ex 10 Note to 10

Wine berries and grapes, dried ; currants:
wine berries and grapes , dried (1 ) ( 6) .......
Wares of T.No.10 imported under licence for the manufacture of vinegar, under supervision and on conditions fixed by regulation

ex 11 ex 12

Citrons , lemons , cedrats : citrons .... grapefruit mangoes ....
Oranges (also mandarino . ): oranges from June 1 to August 31

mandarins

Note to 12 13
14

Oranges , except mandarins , in crates ..
Citrons , limes , cedrats and oranges , in brine ; small unripe oranges ; orange , cedrat and citron rinds , also ground or in brine
Dates , pistachios , bananas ( pisang) : dates pistachios bananas (pisang)

Rate of duty KCB
por 100 kilograms :
300.-
50.-
180.-
40.-
140.30%" 80.-
100.on gross weight
150.on gross weight
100.-
700-
270.540.200,-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A645

SCHEDULE X M CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued )

Ozechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

..

15 16
a) b) ex 17
34 a) b)
ex 35
ex 36
ex 37 ex a)

Pineapples
Almonds : dried , shellad or shelled ....... unripe , in the shell .......

per 100 kilograms : 500
300 ~ 150.-

Pine (cembra) kernels , unshelled ; carob-beans, azaroles , edible chestnuts; coconuts and similar exotic edible nuts ; olives , fresh , salted or dried:
coconuts and similar exotic edible nuts
olives , fresh , dried or salted

100 45,-

VI. CEREALS ; MALT; PULSE ; FLOUR AND MILLED PRODUCTS , RICE.

Rice unhusked and husked , also broken

unhusked . ............ ..

10.-

other

40.-

VII. FRUIT , VEGETABLES , PLANTS AND PARTS OF PLANTS,
Fruit :

Grapes , fresh ; vintage must : grapes , freshs from December 1 to July 31 ...... from August 1 to November 30 .....
Walnuts and hazelnuts , riper hazelnuts, ripes not peeled ... peeled

400.500,-
150200.-

Fruit not specially provided for , fresh ( 2) : fine table fruits

A646

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X G CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number ex 1.
ex 2. ex 38 ex a)
b) ex 39
ex 42 ex b) ex 43

Description of products

Rate of duty

peaches and nectarines , pears , apples and strawberries :

Kc 8 per 100 kilogramsi

peaches and nectarines , from March 1 to May 31 .... .................. pears from October 1 to May 31

170.75.-

apples:

from November 1 to May 31 ......

75.-

from June 1 to June 30 picked from the

tree within three months prior to import-

ation ( 3)

75.-

other :

apricots from March 1 to May 31

170.on gross weight

Plume , dried ( 6) : in barrels , oases , bags , or in similar packing of a gross weight of ovor 30 kilograms , or unpacked :. in barrels , cases , bags , or similar packing of a gross weight of over 30 to 50 kilograms
in other packing (4 )
Fruit not specially provided for, prepared (dried compressed , cut up, powdered or otherwise ground ; preserved in brine or in vinegar , in barrels ; plum jam with no sugar added) :
apples and pears , both dried and unpeeld , whether whole or out up ( 5) ( 6 )
all other fruit not specially provided for , driod ( 5) (6 ) ......
Vegetables i
Cabbage , fresh:
from December 1 to July 15 : from March 1 to May 31 ......
Vegetables not specially provided for and other culinary plants , fresh :

60.606-
50.100.-
506-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A647

SCHEDULE X CECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak
Tariff Item Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

ex a) 1.
ex 2.
ex 3.

fine table vegetables : truffles
asparagus , carrots in bundles , cucumbers , cabbage lettuce and spinach :
asparagus and cabbage lettuce , from November 1 to April 30 ........

Kcs per 100 kilograms:
250.jon gross weight
260.-

carrots in bundles and spinach, from November 1 to March .31 ....

260.-

other :

grean beans and green peas , in pods , from November 1 to May 31 ......

120.-

Plants and parts of planta on gross weight

Seeds :

ex 47

Linseed and hemp seed , ail seeds , not elsewhere included :

b)

oil seeds , not elsewhere included

free

ex 49

Glover seeds

ex b)

other :

lucerne (alfalfa)

85.-

50 ex 56
b)
.)

Grass seeds

440-

on gross weight

Ornamental flowers and

leaves , also living plants :

Living plants (also in ordinary flower pots , tubs and the like ) ·
trees and shrubst fzalea mollis , Azalea pontica
magnolias ; Japanese maple (Acer japonicum) other

free 260.800

flower bulbe , tubers and rootstocks ( rhizomas ,

bulbs )

80.-

A648

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak
Tariff Item Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

ax .)
61
ex 62 ex b)
2. ex 75 ex b) 76
ex 79 b)

..

other, including slips , cuttings , grafts and shoots :
Azalea indioa .....

ber 100 kilogramas. free

Other plants and their

parts t

Bea-grass, esparto grass ( stipa tenacissima or

alfa), plassava and similar vegetable materials

for stuffing , plaiting, for brushes and brooms;

bast, raffia; reed; straw; hay; litter; all these

goods also dyed .......

free

Rants not specially mentioned and their parts :

dried or prepared (powdered or otherwise reduced or dyed)

other ......

80, -

IX. OTHER ANIMALS.

Fish , freshwater crayfish, Hånd snails , scampi; freshi
sea fish .... other :
freshwater fish ....

10.230.-

Sea shellfish or crustacians (e.g. oysters , lobsters , sea spiders , crabs , turtles ) , fresh, also boiled , but not shelled :
lobsters ......
other ......

600750.-

X. ANIMAL PRODUCTS.

Eggs of poultry , also yolk and white of egg , liquids
yolk and white of egg , liquid ......

220.-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A649

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Note to 79b)

Yolk and white of egg , liquid , imported under licence by factories for the manufacture of leather, edible artificial fats , proserves of
fish or of paste , under supervision and on conditions imposed by regulation ..

ex 81

Animal wax:

a)

in a natural state

Rate of duty Kc.
per 100 kilograms:
free 20.-

ex 82

Horny spongesi

ex a)

sponges fine or common ( bath and horse sponges) in a natural state, not worked , not washed;
horse sponges washed , further worked , but not bleached :

sponges fine or common (bath and horse

sponges) in a natural state , not worked,

not washed

50.-

83

Skins and hides , raw ( green or dry, also salted

or limed , but not further worked)

free

ex 84

Hair of all kinds , crude or worked ( 1.0. combed , boiled , dyed or stained , also curled) , bristles :

hair of all kinds , except human hair, crude or

worked ( 1.e. combed , boiled , dyed or stained ,

also curled); bristles .....

free

ex 86

Bladders and guts , fresh ( green) , salted (pickled) , or dfied; gold beater's skins ; gut strings :

blaiders and guts , fresh ( green ) , salted (pickled) , or dried; gut strings

24.on net weight

XI. FATS AND GREASE. Edible fats i

89

Pork and goose fat , raw or rendered (7 )

A650

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X M CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Ozechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products
Fats for technical   and fatty
acids 1

Rate of duty
KC per 100 kilograms :

ax 91

Fish, whale and seal oil:

fish and whale oil ......

free

ce

92 93
a) b) ex 94 ax b)
1. 96
a) b) 98

Animal tallow, raw or rendered ; pressed tallow ...
Tallow vegetable , palm oil, palm kernel and coconut oil , solid:
tallow vegetable and palm oil ..... palm kernel and coconut oil , solid
Wax, vegetable : carnauba wax and other vegetable wax not specially provided for: raw .....
Paraffini not refined , also paraffin scales other .....
Ceresine

15.-
free 6.
40.** 180220. 420.-

86 96

ex 99 ax a) 101

Petroleum jelly and lanoline (refined grease from Wool):
in casks :
petroleum jelly .....
Fats and fatty mixtures , not specially provided for .....

320.20.-

XII. FATTY OILS.

ex 103

Linseed oil, soya been oil , Chinese wood oil and other fatty oils , not specially provided for, in casks , leather bags and bladders , excet oil varnishes:

a)

Chinese wood oil , without additions .....

20.-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A651

SCHEDULE I CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak
Tariff Item Number

Description of products

ex b)

others castor oil

Rate of duty
 per 100 kilogramsi
160.-

ex 104

Olive , maize , poppy seed , sesame , groundnut , beechnut and sunflower oil , in casks , leather bags and bladders:

olive oil , if accompanied with a certificate

of purity , issued by a competent authority of

the country of origin

50.-

groundnut oil, if accompanied with a certificate

issued by a competent laboratory of the country

of origin, testifying to the fact that the oil

has been actually manufactured from kernels and

shells of groundnuts ........

90.-

ex Note to 103 and 104

Castor oil of the T.No.103 , olive oil ( also turnant oil and olive-seed oil ) and groundnut o/1 of the T.No.104 , for technical purposes , on condition that they shall be denaturised at one of the customs offices expressly entrusted therewith:

castor oil of the T.No.103 for technical purposes ,

on condition that it will be denaturited at one

of the customs offices expressly entrusted

the rewith

6.-

ex 106 ex b)

Fatty oils in bottles , jars and similar receptaoles weighing less than 25 kilograms:
oils of the T.No.104 :
olive oil in bottles , if accompanied with a certificate of purity , issued by a competent authority of the country of origin ....
groundnut oil , if accompanied with a certificate issued by a competent laboratory of the country of origin , testifying to the fact that the oil has been actually manufactured from kernels and shells of groundnuts .........

90.150.-

XIII. BEVERAGES.

ex 108

Distilled spirituous liquore:

A652

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number ex a)
ex b)
c)
ex d) ex 109
a) ex b)
ex 1.

Description of products

Rate of duty

wine distillates :

Kc8 per 100 kilograms:

wine distillates , arriving from the country of origin , where they enjoy an officially controlled appellation of origin , and accompanied by a certificate of appellation of origin issued by an authority recognized by the competent authorities of the country of importation
liqueurs , punch essences and other distilled opirituous liquors with the addition of sugar or other substances ; francovka:
liqueurs and other distilled spirituous liquors with the addition of sugar or other substances ..

3000.5000.-

arack , rum : arack c rum .....

3200,2000.-

other distilled spirituous liquorst gin , whisky .....

3000-

Wine , fruit wine , wino and fruit must , fruit and berry juices , unthickened ; mead :
citrus fruit juices , unthickened ( 8 ) other :

200-

in casks :
wines arriving from the country of origin :
enjoying in their country of origin an officially controlled appellation of origin, and accompanied by a certificate of appellation of origin issued by an authority recognized by the competent authorities of the country of importation (E) .... othor, accompanied by a certificate of origin issued by a competent authority of the country of origin ( 9)

360.360--

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT . 30, 1947

A653

SCHEDULE X · CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

ex 2.
ex 110
ex 114 115 ex 119 ex a) 120
a)

..

in bottles1

 per 100 kilograms :

vines arriving from the country of origin:
enjoying in their country of origin an officially controlled appellation of origin and accompanied by a certificate of appellation of origin issued by an authority! recognized by the competent authorities of the country of importation ( 9) ........
other, accompanied by a certificate of origin issued by a competent authority of the country of origin (9) .....
fruit and berry juices ( except apple , raspberry and grape juices ) , unthickened ( 8) ...

800,800400, -

Sparkling wines :
sparkling wines , arriving from the country of origin , enjoying in their country of origin an officially controlled appellation of origin, and accompanied by a certificate of appellation of origine issued by an authority recognized by the competent authorities of the country of importation .....

2000.-

XIV. COMESTIBLES .

Baked articles (biscuits , cakes , wafers, etc. ) :
baked flakes and similar preparations of ground cereals and of rice ..................

700.-

Bago and sago substitutes , tapioca and arrowroot Cheese and curds
cheeset Roquefort

200,500.-

Herrings, salted or smoked : salted ...... smoked .....

14.-
70.on gross weight

95347 O -49-pt . 5- -42

A654

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X M CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

ex 121 a)
ex b) 122
a)
125 126 ex 127
ex 128 ex b) ex 130
a) ex b)
ex 131
a)



..

Fish not specially provided for , salted , smoked , dried:
salted others
smoked
Fish, prepared (marinated or in oil etc. ) , in casket
in oil other .....
Cocoa butter
Cocoa powder
Cocoa pastes chocolate , substitutes for and manufactures of chocolate :
Cocoa paste ......
Preserves of fish , meat and shellfish: other : preserves of lobster
Preserves of fruit , thickened must , fruit and berry juices , thickened ; tamarinds :
citrus fruit juices , thickened......... other :
fruit and berry juices ( except applo , rasp berry and grape juices ) , thickened
Edibles in tins , bottles , and similar containers hermetically sealed ( except edibles enumerated under Tariff Numbers 114 , 123 , 186 and 127 ) :
citrus fruit juices , thickened ....

Rate of duty 
per 100 kilograms : 10.300,-
400.800.180.2000.-
2000.-
1000.-
500.-
700-
500,-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A655

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

ax b)

other:

Kc. per 100 kilogramsi

preserved vegetables (including preserved mashrooms and vegetable juices ) and other plant preparations for kitchen use ; soups:

preserved asparagus

500

vegetable juices : tomato juice .... other ...···

500340.-

other, except preserved tomatoes ( 10) preserved fruits

700.-

pineapple ......

500,-

other

700.-

fruit and berry juices ( except apple , raspberry and grape juices), thickened

700.-

preserved fishi

sardines, kippered herrings, salmon

600-

pilchards: in oil .....
in tomato sauce ....

600400.-

lobster ..................

1000.-

roasted puffed grains of cereals and of rice..

900,-

ex 132 a)
ex b)
ex 134

Edibles not specially provided for : yolk and white of egg, dry other :
soups ......
roasted puffed grains of cereals and of rice.. chewing gum ......
XV. WOOD, COAL AND TURF Building and industrial wood (11 ) , corks
building and industrial wood , not European in the log or in rough blocks hewn by axe , also sawn or otherwise cut , split , except veneers, not further worked .......

800.700.900.960.-
free

A656

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X · CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products
XVI. MATERIALS FOR TURNING AND CARVING.

Rate of duty
Kcs per 100 kilogrames

136

Chair cane , raw, not split ; sticks and canes ,

finer, raw

free

138

Horns, horn in slabs , horn points , claws , feet,

hoofs, bones, all natural or only split ,

stretched or out ......

free

ex 139

Amber ( also ambor pulp) , jot , ivory and other animal teeth , tortoise shell , meerschaum , mother of-pearl and other sholls , all these materials natural or only split , stretched or cuts

ivory and other animal teeth , tortoise shell ,

mother-of-pearl and other shells

free

ex 140

Whalebone , natural ; coral , raw ( also perforated , but not cleaned nor smoothed) :

coral , raw ( also perforated , but not cleaned

nor smoothed) .......

free

ex 141 ex b)

Celluloid in sheets , sticks or tubes , also polished or backed , but not further worked; artificial materials for turning and carving , not specially provided for , not further workedi
artificial materials for turning and carving , not specially provided for , not further worked:
artificial materials for turning and carving of casein ......
XVII. MINERALS NOT INCLUDED ELSEWHERE.

100.on gross weight

148

Stones, rough or merely roughly hown or mostly

not more than on three sides sawn by saw or by

cables slaba neither split nor sawn by saw or

by cable .....

free

144

Ores not specially provided for , also partly

treated ...

free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A657

SCHEDULE X · CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

ex 146 ex b)
1.

White chalk, heavy spars ground, washed : white chalk

Rate of duty Kce
per 100 kilograms :
7.-

ex 148

Coloured olaysi

ex b)

burnt , ground , washed , compressed:

2.

other

50.-

ex 150

Earths and mineral substances not specially provided for, crude , burnt , ground or washed:

ex b)

other:

asbestos (amianth) , graphite , mica,

phosphate rock .......

free

XVIII. MEDICINAL WARES AND PERFUMERY.

151 ex 154
b)

Liquorice juice , thickened , in cases or lumps ...
Fragrant waters (without alcool ) , such as: orangeblossom , rose , lavender , fennel , peppermint , millefleurs and other like waters :
in receptacles weighing gross less than 10 kilogram ......

250.160.-

ex 155 b)

Essences ( essential oils ) ; other ( 12 ) .........

320-

XIX. DYEING AND TANNING MATERIALS.

159

Other barks, roots , leaves , blossoms , fruits

( .. myrobalans) , valonías , gallnuts and similar,

also cut , ground up or otherwise reduced , for

dyeing and tanning ...

free

ex 162

Archil , persio ; indigo ; cochineal ; extract of

chestnut woods extract of quebracho wood , tanning

extracts , not specially provided for:

wattle extract .......

8.-

indigo; extract of chestnut wood , extract of

oak wood , extract of eucalyptus wood

13.-

A658

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X · CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

163 a) D)

| Dyeing extracts , not specially provided for : liquid ....... solid

Rate of duty
 per 100 kilograms ;
100,170,-

XX. GUMS AND RESINS .

ex 165

Rosins colophony; pitch not specially provided for:

rosin, solophony

free

170

Asphalt cement; asphalt mastic ; rosin cements

(wood cement)

23.-

ex 173 ex b) 174

Turpentine, turpentine oil , pitch oil ( rosin oil) ; erude oil of amber , hartshorn and caoutchouc , also coal tar oils of the benzol series; birdlimei

other :

turpentine , turpentine oil

free

Copal and damar resin , shellac , gum arabic , gedda

gum, senegal gum, gambodge gum, gum tragacanth;

gums , resins and gum resins , crude vegetable

balsams and juices , not specially provided for ...

free

XXI. MINERAL OILS , LIGNITE AND SCHIST TAR AND OILS THEREOF.

ex 177 ex b)

Mineral oils, as well as lignite tar and schist tar oils, semi-refined ( semi-purified) , or refined (purified) , of a density of 0.880 or less , also mixed with animal or vegetable oils or fats:
of a density of more than 0.790 and up to 0.880. mineral oils , semi-refined ( semi-purified) , or refined (purified) : of a density of more than 0.790 up to 0.870..
of a density of more than 0.870 up to 0.880..

170.on own weight
180.on own weight

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A659

SCHEDULE I CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number
178

Description of products
Mineral oils, as well as lignite and schist tar oils, semi -refined (semi -purified) , or refined (purified) , of a density of more than 0.880, also mixed with animal or vegetable cils or fats:
of a density of more than 0.880 up to 0.890
of a density of more than 0.890 .....

Rate of duty Kos
par 100 kilograms :
180.on own weight
200.on own weight

XXII. COTTON, YARNS AND WARES THEREOF , also mixed with vegetable
spinning material a · but not with wool O I silk .

180

Cotton, arude, oarded, bleached, dyed, ground;

cotton waste

ex 181

Cotton wadding, except ootton wool for medical purposes; threads prepared for cleaning maahinery eto. (13) :

Note . Linters, shaped, imported under licence for the manufacture of rayon, under supervision and on conditions imposed by re-
gulation

183
f) Note 2 to 183

Cotton yarn :
single, unbleached: up to No.12 English .... over No.12 and up to No. 29 English over No. 29 and up to No.50 English over No. 50 and up to No.70 English .. over No.70 and up to Bo.90 English ....
over No. 90 English
Cotton yarn unbleached , single , imported under licence for the manufacture of tulle, curtains, embroideries and lace, under supervision and on conditions imposed by regulation: ex o) over No. 29 and up to No. 50 English .....
ex d) over No.50 and up to No.60 English .....

free
100.-
180.230.400.400. · 450.370.-
290.360.-

A660

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SOMEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Humber

Description of products

Rate of duty

Kcs

per 100 kilograms:

ex 4) and ) over No.60 and up to No.80 English ...

400.-

ex ) over No.80 and up to No.90 English

280.-

ex f) over No.90 and up to No.120 English

free

ex f) over No.120 English .......

free

184
·) a) ·)

bf two threads , unbleached : up to No.12 English ...... over No.12 and up to No.29 English over No.29 and up to No.50 English .... over No.50 and up to No.70 English ...... over No.70 and up to No.90 English ..... over No. 90 English ....

230,300.450.450.520.520.-

Note to 184

Cotton yarn unbleached , of two threads , imported under licence for weaving-factories for the manufacture of half silk tissues , as of tulle, curtains , embroiderios and lace " under supervision and on conditions imposed by regulation:
ex e) over No.29 and up to No.50 English .....
ex d) over No.50 and up to No.60 English
ex d) and e) over No.60 and up to No. 80 English ..
exe) over No. 80 and up to No.90 English
ex f) over No.90 and up to No.120 English ....
ex f) over No.120 English .......

350.420.350.350.free free

185 a)

....

of three or more throads , single twist , unbleached: up to No.12 English ...... over No.12 and up to No.29 English over No.29 and up to No.50 English ... over No.50 English .....

300,350.500, 600.-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A661

SCHEDULE X · CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Otechoslovak. Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

Note to 185

 per 100 kilograms : Cotton yarn unbleached , of three or more threads, over No.60 English, imported under licence for embroidering ( embroidery yarn ) , under supervision and on conditions imposed by regulation:

1. over No.60 and up to No.80 English ......

440.-

2. over No.80 and up to No.90 English

360 , -

3. ver No.90 English ......

free

186 a) b)
d)



of three or more threads , multiple twist , unbleacheds
up to No.12 English ....... over No.12 and up to No.29 English over No.29 and up to No.50 English .. over No.50 English .....

370.420.650.750.-

187
a) b) c) d)



Catton yarn bleached , mercerized , dyed ( also print ed) is subject to a surcharge to the rate of duty stipulated for the respective kind of cotton yarn unbleached , namely:
bleached
mercerized
dyed ( also printed ) bleached and mercerized
dyed (also printed ) and mercerized ..

140.150.240.240. 270.-

Note to T.No.187. The surcharges enumerated above are to be added to conventional rates stipulated for yarn unbleached.

XXIII. FLAX , HEMP , JUTE AND OTHER VEGETABLE SPINNING MATERIALS NOT SPECIALLY MENTIONNED ,YARNS
AND WARES THEREOF ,

without admixture of

Cotton , Wool or 9 ilk ·

ex 202

Flax, hemp, jute and other vegetable spinning

materials not specially provided for, all raw, steeped (retted) , broken, hackled , bleached , dyed and their waste :

flax,raw,hemp ( 14) ,jute and sisal; car fibre , raw

free

A662

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued )

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products Yarn :

Rate of duty
Xos ber 100 kilograme

ex 204

Yarn of linen ( of flax fibre or flax tow) ; yarn of ramie (China-grass) :

ex a)

single , unbleached :

over No.60 English

70.-

ex 205 ex a)

Yarn of hemp ( of hemp fibre or hemp tow, also mixed with other spinning materials classified in this Glass ) ; yarns not specially provided for :

single , unbleached:

yarn of hemp ( of hemp fibre or hemp tow , also

mixed with other spinning materials classified

in this Class) .......

....

Note after 205 )

Yarn of Manila and sisal hemp or similar spinning materials, unbleached , for the manufacture of plaits for hats , 2500 m of this yarn weighing 1 kilogram or less , imported through the customs offices in Krnov and Vejprty ......

ex Note to Yarn for sheaves binding , in hanks or on reels :

204, 205 and

206

yarn of sisal for sheaves binding , in hanks or

on reels ........

Goods of flax · hemp , ju eto.i

218
a) b)

Carpets of flax , hemp, jute and of other vegetable spinning materials , not specially provided for, also bleached , dyed , printed , figured:
not woven with pile .....
woven with pile

300.90.150.-
1200.4000.-

Note to 219 a) Coir and similar fibres , twisted as cords ( coir

yarn etc. ) , imported under licence for the

manufacture of rugs and the like , under super-

vision and on conditions imposed by regulation ...

free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30. 1947

A663

SCHEDULE X CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

XXIV. WOOL ,WOOLLEN YARN AND WARES THEREOF, mixed with other

KcB per 100 kilograms :

pinning materials " 

silk .

220

Wool , raw, washed , combed , dyed , bleached , milled

and waste ....

free

Yarn :

ex 226 a)

Carded yarn and yarn not specially provided for , spun in the shape of carded yarn :
unbleached , single

330-

229 a) b) )
230

Woollen good st
Woollen tissues not specially provided for, also printed:
weighing more than 700 grams per square metre : endless tissued felts for technical purposes
other ......
weighing more than 200 and up to 700 grams per square metre:
endless tissued felts for technical purposes other .............
weighing 200 grams or less per square metre: endless tissued felts for technical purposes other
Note to 229. When assessing duty under the most favoured nation treatment on woollen tissues of the Tariff Number 229 no account is taken of the components of silk or artificial silk used to obtain effects , provided that the weight of such components does not exceed 5% of the total weight of such tissues.
Velvets and tissues ressembling velvet (with cut or ungut pile ) , also printed ...

3500.>2000.6000.30007700.4500.-
7000.-

A664

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X · CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

Kcs

per 100 kilograme:

234

Shawls and tissues similar to shawls; lace and

lase kerchiefs; tulle and netted materials ressembling tulle

14,300.-

ex 237 D

Carpets : knotted carpets ...

7000.-

ex 239 d)

Technical articles: driving belts

1700.-

XXV. SILK AND SILK WARES , also mixed with oth

spinning material ·

240

Silk cocoons; silk waste , not spun .....

free

*

ex 242 a) b)
ex 243 a)
ex 245 b)
ex 246
249

..

8ilk (reeled or spun) , also twisted: raw ........ bleached .................
Floss silk ( silk waste spun) , also twisted: raw or bleached ........
Yarn of silk , floss silk or artificial silk , with admixture of other spinning materials , deo twisted:
other .....
Sewing thread of silk , floss silk or artificial silk, also combined with other spinning materials, bleached or dyed, prepared for retail sale:
sewing thread of artificial silk, also combined with other spinning materials , bleached or dyed , prepared for retail sale .......
Wares wholly of silk ( of silk " floss silk 
artificial silk ) .
Silk bolting cloth

free 600,free 1500 ~
4800.-
10.000.-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A665

SCHEDULE X CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

ares of half silk

 per 100 kilograms:

(of silk, floss silk or artificial silk mixed with other spinning materials) :

ex 259 ·) 1.

Ribbon maker's wares:
others
ribbed ribbons, half of silk , 6 em or less in width, dyed, black , grey or brown (hat bands)

9000.-

23

2.

not figured, other ....

3.

figured

12.000.13.000.-

XXVI. READY MADE ARTICLES OF TEXTILES.

ex 265

Wigmakers and other wares of human hairi hair nets .....

4000.-

874

Mothing, linen, articles of fashion and other

articles sewed up of tissues , not specially

provided for , are dutiable according to the chief component with a surcharge of 40 percents

as such component in ready made ladies clothing and in articles of fashion is considered the

component subject to the highest rate of duty.

XXVIII. WARES OF STRAW, CANE, BAST, WOOD SHAVINGS AND SIMILAR MATERIALS, NOT MENTIONED IN OTHER CLASSES OF THE TARIFT.

279

Chair cane, prepared ......

free

280

Coarse coverings for floors and mats ( carriage

mats and the like) , undyed or dyed ......

120.-

381

Plated wares , not spesially mentioned:

common, i.e. eoarse wares for domestic and industrial use , also combined with wood .......

120.-



A666

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number b)
282 a)
b) )

Description of products

Rate of duty

fine, as far as they do not classify under o), also combined with common materials:
plaits for hats of all kind ..... other ......

Kos per 100 kilograms :
180.360.-

Basket makers ' waras (also of plaited osier) :
common (coarse hampers for packing, dossers , carriage and linen baskets , fish pots and the like) of unpeeled or peeled reeds eto. , neither stained, dyed, varnished nor lacquered, also combined with wood, iron or base metals

fine, i.e. all other wares so far as they

do not classify under o) , also combined with

common or fine materials

......

very fine , i.e. wares combined with very fine materials

150.1200.3000.-

ex 285 a)
ex b) 1.
Note 1 to 285
ex 291
ex 292 b)

XXXIX PAPER AND PAPER WARES.

Pasteboard, also floor coverings of pasteboard:

ordinary, weighing 300 g and more per square metre .....
pressboards , slate pasteboard glaze pasteboards

100.on gross weight

vulcanized fibre

360.on gross weight

Baryte pasteboard, imported for the manufactu

re of photographic paper , under special licence,

on conditions imposed by regulation .......

3.-

Paper :

Parohment : parchment, not genuine

660.-

Paper prepared for photographie purposes: sensitized .....

1700.-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A667

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

ex 296 ex a)
1. 3.

Paper not specially provided fort
plaini
rotary press paper, in rolls others
white , without lignine ... other ....

Rate of duty Kc 8
per 100 kilograms :
140.-
300.200, -

 

ex 300 ex a)
ex 4. ex 304
ex 312

Wares of paper :

Wares of paper , pasteboard and paper pulp not specially provided for :
of paper pulp, pasteboard , paper, except paper falling under Tariff Numbers 290 b) , 294 and 296 )
otheri
spools and tubes for winding yarn upon .....

XXX. INDIA RUBBER, GUTTA- PERCHA AND ARTICLES THEREOF.

India rubber natural and artificial , gutta-percha (also balata) , factis and other rubber substitutes produced by a chemical process , all crude , also refined, waste thereof, old used pieces of articles manufactured therefrom , reclaimed
(regenerated ) rubber from rubber waste (Mitchel´s gum):

India rubber natural and artificial, gutta-

percha (also balata) , all crude , also refined ,

and waste thereof .......

.....

Articles of soft India rubber, not specially provided for , also combined with common or fine materials
rubber syringes ....
erasers , rubber bands up to 2mm in width

900.-
free 650,1100.-

A668

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

ex 320 b)
d) ·)
1. 2.

..

Technical articles :
hose of or with rubber, also covered with textiles , or with inlaid wire ........ driving belts .....
pneumatic tires (inner tubes and outer covers ) and solid tires for wheels of vehiclest
for bicycles othert

Rate of duty 
per 100 kilograms: 910.-
1000.-
1500,-

pneumatic tires (inner tubes with outer covers) and inner tubos . ................... outer covers
solid tires for wheels of vehicles

1700, 1500.-
850.-

323
a) b)

. OILCLOTH AND ARTICLES THEREOF.
Moor-cloth of oilcloth, linoleum, camptulicon and similar compositions:
up to 2mm in thickness ... over 2mm in thickness ....

2000.800.-

ex 328
a) 1. 2.

XXXII . LEATHER AND LEASER ARTICLES. Leather i
Cattle and horse leather, worked for soles (also for machinery beltings ) :
backs : vegetable tanned .... mineral tanned ......

800.1000.-

329
a) b)

Cattle and horse leather worked up in a different way then for sole leather , also completely curried , but not patented:
of natural colour or dyed black ..... other ......

900.1290.-

Note 1 to 329

Leather imported under licence for the manufacture of card alothing ( including card backs and bands ) , under supervisiàn and on conditions imposed by regulation

300.-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A669

SCHEDULE X 1 CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

330

Calf leather , except patent leather :

vegetable tanned ......

mineral tanned ...

per 100 kilogramsi 11001350.-

331 332
a)

..

Buck, goat and kid leather , tanned, also split , not dyed , not further prepared ......
Sheep and lamb leather , tanned , not dyed , not further curried :
split on the flesh side .... other .....

100,-
280.600.-

Not . Sheep and lamb leather , partly tanned , not otherwise curried , imported under special licence for the manufacture of leather destined
for making up into trunk-makers , ornamental and bookbinders wares , etc. , except such intended
for the manufacture of footwear and gloves , on conditions imposed by regulation

170.-

333

Buck, goat and kid leather , curried , except glove

and patent leather ......................

1350.-

ex 334 b)

Sheep and lamb leather, curried , except glove leather and patent leather :
other

335

Glove leather of all kinds

336

Patent leather of all kinds

ex 337 b)

Leather not specially provided for; parchment : skins of birds , reptiles , amphibians , and fish

Note 1 after Cuttings and other waste of leather classified

337

under Tariff Numbers 329 , 330 , 333-337 ( 15 ) ......

1200.620.8D0.-
450.215.-

95347 O 49-pt. 5 -43

A670

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products
XXXIV, WOODEN WARES , WARES OF MATERIALS FOR TURNING AND CARVING .

Rate of duty
Kc8 per 100 kilograms !

ex 351 ex a)
1.

Veneers and planks made of veneers glued together : not inlaid: rough .....

230, on gross weight

ex 356 ex o)
ex 1.

Wares not specially provided for , of common wood, also planed ( flat or in profile ) , roughly turned or roughly carved , also glued , rabbetted or other wise put together :
stained, dyed , varnished , lacquered , polished , and all articles combined with leather or common materials , except those classed under b):
of soft woods
skis ......

500.-

Note ex 2.

Boards of dyed or stained wood , imported under licence by factories for the manufacture of pencils , under supervision and on conditions imposed by regulation of hard wood or veneered (with common wood) .
skis .....

10.500.-

ex 357 ex b)
Note

Wares not specially provided for , of fine wood or veneered therewith , also planed ( flat or ia profile) , roughly turned or roughly carved , also glued , rabbetted or otherwise put together :
stained , dyed , varnished , lacquered , polished , and all articles combined with leather or common materials , except those classed under a):
skis and ski sticks .......
Boards of dyed or stained wood , imported under licence by factories for the manufacture of pencils, under supervision and on conditions imposed by regulation

500.10.-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A671

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak
Tariff Item Number

Description of products

ex 358

Woodwares not specially provided for , finely turned , and all wares with burnt- in , moulded or out ornamentation , also combined with leather or common materials ; upholstered wares without coverings
skis .....
ski sticks ....

Rate of duty Kcs
per 100 kilograms:
1000.700.-

ex 361 ex e)
Note 1 to 361 o)

Articles of other materials than wood for turning and carving , not specially provided for:
articles of meerschaum, lava , celluloid and similar artificial carving materials except articles made of imitation of materials enumerated under d) and also combined with common or with other fine materials:
unexposed films other than motion picture films ......
exposed motion picture films
Unexposed motion picture films ...
XXXV. GLASS AND GLASSWARE.

2500.2000.600.-

380 381
a) b)



Photographie dry plates , sensitized
Optical glass , crude , not ground for lenses , in lumps, sheets or lens-shaped , cast , moulded or cut , also ground in part for testing the quality, white or coloured:
in lumps other .....

1500.on gross weight
25.90.on gross weight

A672

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

V. WARES OF STONE, stones · earths not
cement and mi of stones .

 per 100 kilograms :

ex 391

Stomes sawn by saw or by cable on more than three sides , but otherwise rough or merely rough hewn; stone slabs over 16 cm thick, merely sawn by saw or by cable , or split :

of alabaster, marble and serpentine .....

5.-

392

Fireproof stones of quartzite in the khape of

bricks , hewn or sawn by saw or by cable:

..

a)

pieces up to 5 kilograms

56.-

pieces over 5 kilograms ....

9.1

ex 393 D)

81ate : roofing alate and other slate in sheets ...................

ex 394

Stone slabs 16 am or less thick ( except slabs of alate and lithographic stones ) .

b)

further worked , also smoothed or polished:

1.

of stones not mentioned under 2. and 3......

20.-

2.

of alabaster, marble or serpentine

50.-

3.

of granite, porphyry, syenite and similar

hard stones .....

70.-

399

Cement ......

45.-

401 a)
·)



..

Articles of asbestos:
paper and cardboard of asbestos , not shaped ...
paper and cardboard of asbestos , shaped , also perforated; not shaped or shaped with wire insertion
asbestos yarn, also combined with other textile materials or wire ....
asbestos tissues , also combined with other textile materials or wire ....

200, -
800.800.1500,-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A673

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item Number
·)

Description of products

Rate of duty



per 100 kilograms: other articles of asbestos , so far as they do

not classify under 409 c ) , also combined with other materials (except caoutchouc ) ...........

1600.-

ex 402

Millstones , also with iron hoops or metal casing) lithographic stones :

millstones, also with iron hoops or metal

casing .....

10.-

ex 403

Natural grindstones and whetstones :

a)

not combined with other materials

14.-

ex 404 a)

Artificial grindstones and whetstones , also combined with wood , iron or other base metals:
of emery, silicon carbide or other similar hard materials ......

370.-

406

Abrasive paper .......

400.-

407

Abrasive cloth, abrasive ribbons , and similar

abrasive materials ................................

500.-

ex 409 ex a)

Wares of stone combined with other materials 80 far as such a combination is not accounted for under other numbers of this Class :
with common materials
wares of mica or micanite

900, -

XXXVIII, IRON AND IRON WARES. Iron and  1 manufactured
products of irons

ex 428 a)



Pig iron iron and steel , old broken, and waste , for melting and refiningi
pig iron ..........
ferro manganese , ferro-silicon (50 to 90% 81 ) , ferro-chrome, ferro-nickel, ferro-tungsten, ferro-molybdenum, ferro-vanadium, ferroaluminium (16)

16.free

A674

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKKA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

429 430
ex 431 ex a)
b)
d)
ex 432 a) 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. b) 1. 2. 3. 4.



per 100 kilogramsi

Bloom iron; ingots

36.-

Billets of cast iron and billets of puddled iron,

blooms , puddled bars .................

50.-

Iron and steel in bars , hammered, rolled or drawn : not shaped: not shaped, except band iron and band steel , rolled in cold state , of a thickness of more than 1.8 mm till 4 ma .................... shaped ............. ornamental iron ........ finished, if not falling under ) ....... coated with nickel , plated with copper, copper alloys or aluminium, or polished
Sheets and plates : not worked (rough) [black plates], of a thickness ofs 2mm or more ...............
less than 2mm down to 1min less than 1 down to 0 mm less than 0.6mm down to 0.4mm less than 0.4mm down to 0.25mm less than 0.25mm 13
dressed or pickled , of a thickness of 1 or more ....... less than 1. down to 0.6mm .... less than 0.6mm down to 0.4mm .... less than 0.4mm

65.80.100.130.-
165
110.110.120.130.150.160.-
130.150.160.170.-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A675

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)



Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number
ex o) ex 1. ex x)
3) ex 2 . ex A
A) ex 3. ex x)
ex 4. ex (x)
A) d) .)

Description of products

Rate of duty

coated with tin , sinc , lead , copper or brass , varnished, smoothed , of a thickness of:
1mm or more:

Kc . per 100 kilograms :

coated with tin , zinc , lead : coated with tin , lead .......
other .......

200.230.-

less than lam down to 0.6mm

coated with tin, zinc , lead : coated with tin, lead ...
other .....

210.240.-

less than 0.6 down to 0.4mm &

coated with tin , zine , lead : coated with tin, lead
other ......

220.250.-

less than 0.4mm

coated with tin , zinc , leads coated with tin , lead
other .....

285.300.-

nickelled , plated with copper , copper alloys or aluminium, or polished ............

300, -

with designs (coloured or impressed) , watered , lacquered .....

310.-

433

Sheets and plates , pierced , perforated , punohed

or out out :

black .....

400.-

polished or pickled other

420.700.-





434 ad) QB) 1.

Wiret rolled other of a thickness of: 1.5mm or more

110.140.-

A676

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

2. 3. b) 1.
2. 3.
o)
435 a) b)
438 a)
1. 2. b) 1. 2. ·) 1. 2.

12

23

less than 1.5mm down to 0.5mm less than 0.5mm ...... coated with tin , zinc , lead , copper , brass , varrished , of a thickness of: 1.5mm or more i
3m or more ....... less than 3mm down to 1.5mm less than 1.5mm down to 0.5mm less than 0.5mm less than 0.5mm down to 0.3mm less than 0.3mm ...... coated with nickel , plated with copper , copper alloys or aluminium, or polished Hardened wire: not worked (rough) polished or otherwise further worked
Ware 8 of iron :

Kcs per 100 kilograms :
180.220.-
210.210.260.-
300.300.340.-
230.540.-

Pipes and their joints of non- malleable cast iron: not worked (rough ) , also scoured , also covered with asphalt or tar ; with walls of a thickness ofs 7mm or more .... less than 7mm
otherwise ordinarily worked ; with walls of a thickness of:
7mm or more ..... less than 7mm
finely worked , with walls of a thickness of: 7mm or more ..... less than 7mm

85.160.-
185.300.-
330.380.-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT . 30, 1947

A677

SCHEDULE X · CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

439
a) b) )

Pipes , except their joints , of malleable iron , rolled or drawn , or of malleable cast iron, also with bent over , soldered or welded flanges; corrugated pipes :
not worked (rough) , also scoured , with screws or with bored or turned flanges
otherwise ordinarily worked ......
finely worked

per 100 kilograms:
300.380.550.-

ex 445 ex d) ex 2.
485 a) b)

..

Sheet iron articles , not specially provided for :
oxydized , painted , printed , bronzed , lacquered, enameled or of sheet iron with designs ; also combined with common materials :
other :
addressing machine frames ......
Not to 445. Water meters dutiable under T.No.445 are subject , according to their kind, to 3/5 of the respective general rate of duty.
Tools and instrumentsi
Forks for hay and manure and other large forks, rakes and rakers , also combined with woods
not worked (rough) , also with point prepared ·· otherwise ordinarily or finely worked , also polished or coated with nickel ......

800.-
350, 500 , -

ex 456
ex a) ax 1. ex 2. ex b)

Hammers , sledge hammers, axes of all kinds , tongs , except heavy forge tongs , anvils , anvils stakes, forge swages (shapers)
weighing per piece 500 grams or more : black or ordinarily worked : hammers, sledge hammers; axes of all kinds
finely worked: hammers , sledge-hemmers; axes of all kinds
weighing per piece less than 500 grams ,further without regard to weight , all such tools wholly or partly polished or coated with nickel ,
hammers , sledge-hammers; axes of all kind ...

700.1200.-
1500.-

A678

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

BCHESTIILE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Ozechoslovak Tariff Item
Mumber

Description of products

ex 458

Saws and non-toothed saw blades , also wholly or partly polished or coated with nickel:
fret saws .......

Rate of duty Kös
per 100 kilograms :
8500.-

 123

ex 459 ex .)

Cutting files (cutters) , reaners (except angular reamers) , screw and spiral borers , screw dies; awls; all these tools also wholly or partly polished or coated with nickel ; weighing eacht
less than 50 grams:
als

2700.-

465

Sprocket-chains , except bicycle chains classified

under T.No.558 .

.......

700.-

ex 467
a) 1. 2.

Card clothing of all kinds , weavers reeds and teeth for same, also in squares or rings ; weavers healds of wire ; loops of wire or sheet iron for healds (mails ) ;
eard clothing:
not combined with felt .... other ....

900.3000.-

ex 468

Pins, so far as they are not classified under T.No. 469; pens and pen-tubes; steel beads , also gilt or silvered; fish hooks , hooks and elasps , buckles, buttons , thimbles and similar small articles:
fish hooks ....

2500.-

ex 469

Needles (including sticking , embroidering and darning needles) , also with gilt ete ; needles for sewing, knitting, embroidering and hosiery machineet
needles for machines ...............

1200.-

ex 473 a)
1.

Locks , keys and other parts of looks:
looks common, except safety locks and locksmiths artistic work, weighing eachs
more than 300 grams .................
300 grams or less ....

850.2400.-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A679

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number
ex 476
b)

Description of products
Iron furniture except furniture with artistio locksmiths work; gymnastic apparatus :
with other common or with fine finish , also combined with other materials:
record keeping equipment ( 17) .... refrigerator cabinets , also with very fine finish, for storing foodstuffs ( 18) other .......

Rate of duty Kc8
per 100 kilograms :
1300.17002200.-

ex 478 ex b)
ex 3.

Arms and parts thereof fire arms other finished portable fire arms , also very finely worked
automatic guns , automatis pistols , revolvers, guns with or without cocks ......

6300.-

ex 479 ex e)
ex 2 .

Cutlery and parts of cutlery : all other cutlers ' wares, also very finely worked: other:
not honed blades for safety-razors , in bands

2100.-

ex 483
ex c) ex 1. ex 2,

Wares of malleable iron , not specially provided for, also combined with non-malleable cast iron or with woods
finely worked , weighing per pieces more than 25 kilograms: wheels for motor vehicles and airplanes .... more than 3 kilograms and up to 25 kilograms : wheels for motor vehicles and airplanes ....

200.215.-

ex 484

Iron wares combined with common materials: wheels for motor vehicles and airplanes armatures ...........

300,1000.-

A680

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number
ex 488 a) b) d) a)
ex f)
g) ex h)
ex 491 o)
ex d) ex 1.
ex 2.



Desription of products

Rate of duty

XXXIX. BASE METALS AND WARES THEREOF.  metals " crude and
m 1 - products :

Koa per 100 kilograms :

Base metals , orude , old broken or scrap :

lead, also alloys of lead with antimony, arsenio, tin or zino ......

tin, also alloys of tin with antimony, lead

or zino; Britannia metal .......

.....

copper (also refined) , electrolytic copper, rosette copper, cement (precipitated) copper

nickel

.......

aluminium, magnesium and alloys of aluminium with magnesium:

aluminium and alloys of aluminium with magnesium

base metals not specially provided for ....

alloys of base metals , not specially provided for:

brass ......

24.free free free
free free
free

Sheets and plates (rolled , hammered) , not further worked :
of zinc
of copper, nickel , aluminium and other base metals or metal alloys not specially provided for:
of a thi akness of over 0.5 mm:
of copper or brass ......
of aluminium , aluminium alloys or alloys similar to aluminium of a thickness of 0.5 mm or less :
of copper or brass .....

240.-
300.480.380.-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A681

SCHEDULE - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

Kos

per 100 kilograms :

494

Sheets and plates, gilt or silvered, also plat-

ed with gold or silver .....

1500.-

ex 496 ex d)
ex 1.

Bars, rods and wire ( rolled, forged or drawn) : of copper, nickel, aluminium and of other base metals or metal alloys :
of a thickness of over 0.5 mm:
of brass

440.-

of nickel, aluminium, aluminium alloys or alloys similar to aluminium ...................

580.-

498

Copper wire, cemented; wire of base metals or

metal alloys , silvered or plated with silver;

all these wires also flattened , but not further

worked .......

720.

Wares of metal :

ex 500 ex d)
ex 1 .

Pipes and cylinders , not further worked: of other base metals or metal alloys , weighing per linear metre :
1 kilogram or more : of copper ....

840.-

ex 502 b)
ex 517

Boilers and boilermakers ' wares , coarse, not further worked (except articles falling under Mase XL.) :
boilers of other base metals or metal alloys (except aluminium and nickel) ; moulds merely hollowed out; forged or rolled boiler bottoms and fire boxes ; all these weighing per piece more than 10 kilograms ........
Wares not specially provided for, of copper and other base metals and metal alloys , not specially provided for , also combined with common materials :

450.-

A682

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

ex a)
ex b)
ex 522
ex 523 b) ·)
ex 526 ex b)

ordinarily worked: froteurs of bronse , without setting

(per 100 kilogramsi 550.-

nails and tucks for upholstery; rings for awnings; fittings for railway cars , furniture , windsws and doors; furniture ; kitchen utens of copper and brass (excepted table utensils )

1300.-

finely worked :

nails and tucks for upholstery; rings for awnings; fittings for railway are , furniture, windows and doors; furniture ; kitchen utensile of copper and brass (excepted table utensils)

2800.-

Wares of base metals or metal alloys , wholly or partly gilt or silvered , plated with gold or silver or combined with very fine materials :
searchlights and electrical lamps for motorcycles and automobiles

7000,-

Bullion , tinsel (also tinsel foil ) and spun thread of base metals or alloys thereof
silvered or plated with silver gilt or plated with gold .....

4000.8000.-

XL. MACHINERY , APPARATUS AND THEIR PARTS OF
WOOD, IRON OR BASE METALS , EXCEPT THOSE INCLUDED UNDER TARIFF CLASSES XLI. AND XLII.

Steam boilers , distilling , cooling and cooking apparatus; cisterns and tanks ; all these articles finished , also with fittings belonging to them and fitted on to them:
of iron, with component parts of base metals :
steel cylinders for gas ................

850.-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A683

SCHEDULE X · CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

ex 528

Steem engines and other engines not specially provided for ( except engines falling under the Class XLI . and XLII . ) ; machine tools , permanently combined with steam engines ( steam dredging machines , steam- cranes , steam hammers , steam pumps , steam fire engines , and similar machines )
Note to 528. Carburetors falling under this Tariff Number are dutiable at the same rate to which are subject carburetors classified under T.No.537.

Kcs per 100 kilograms :

ex 530
ex c) ex 2.

Agricultural machinery and implements , not specially provided for:
others of iron:
complete plows for attachment to motor plows .......

500.-

ex 538 ex c)

Machines and instruments not specially provided for , other
weighing each over 10 metria quintals:
lathes , planing , shaping and milling machines, for metal work

1000.-

ex Notes to Class XL.
2.

When classifying machines , instruments , or parts thereof , their combination with other materials is disregarded.

3.

Such articles , not specially provided for, which

cannot be used otherwise than for assembling

machines or instruments , shall be dutiable as

parts of machines or instruments.

A684

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak
Tariff Item Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

ex 539 a) b)

XLI. ELECTRICAL MACHINES , APPARATUS
AND ELECTROTECHNICAL ACCESORIES.
Dynamos and electric motors ( except those for automobiles ) , also permanently combined with mechanical contrivances or apparatus; transformers (rotary or static converters ) ; weighing each:
25 kilograms or less :
electric cooling units ( 19 ) ...... other ......
more than 25 kilograms and up to 5 metrie quintals .....

Kcs per 100 kilograms;
170030002000.-

ex 540
ex b) ax Note to
540

Electric telegraph , ringing , signalling and railway safety apparatus ; telephones and microphones; lighting arresters (except lightning conductors); electricity measuring and calculating apparatus ; weighing each :
less than 5 kilograms :
microphones
Radiotelephone , radiotelegraph and similar apparatus; electric loud- speakers:
receiving apparatus ( except those for television) , amplifiers , and electric loudspeakers; all except electronic tubos imported separately

9000.9000.-

542 ex 543

Electric lamps ( arc lamps , incandescent electriclight lamps and the like ) , mounted holders for electric lampa mounted glasses for electric
minous effects other electro -medical apparatus (including Roentgen apparatus ) ........
Electric apparatus and electro-technical appliances ( regulators , resistances , starters and the like ) , not specially provided for:
spark plugs and electric starting devices for combustion and explosion motors (also for automobile and airplane engines ) .... rectifiers of 6lectric current

4250.-
2000.3000,-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A685

SCHEDULE X 3 CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

ex 543 (Cont'd )
Note after 543 , par.4

carbon brushes , mounted
Electric apparatus and electro - technical appliances , not specially provided for , mounted with electricity measuring and calculating apparatus and weighing less than 5 kilograms each will be dutiable under the T.No.540 b).

Rate of duty
 per 100 kilograms :
5000.-



ex 544 a)

Cable and insulated wire for electric conductions with metal casing

1300.-

545

Accumulators with lead electrodes , as well as

lead electrodes for accumulators

1200.-

546 a)
b) 1. 2.

Electric carbons : electric light carbons weighing 1 kilogram or less per linear metre other :
weighing each 3 kilograms or over other ....

800.-
32.120.-

XLII. VEHICLES.

Road vehicles :

ex 552 b)

Bicycle parts ( tube joints , forks , handle bars , saddle pillars , chain wheels , pedals , valves , brake parts , hubs also not assembled , chains for bicycles , pedal cranks , threated spokes , spoke nipples , perforated rims , etc. ) , worked :
other .....

3200.-

ex 553 ex a)

Motorcycles , also with sidecar , sidecars imported separately, automobiles ( also motor tricycles ) , chassis with or without motor and bodies imported separately .
motorcycles , also with sidecar , and sidecars imported separately:
motorcycles , weighing each over 190 kilograms (without sidecar)

2200.-

95347 0- 49- pt. 5- 44

A686

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

ex b) ex 1. ex 2. ex c) ex 1. ex d)
ex e)
ex 554 b)

passenger automobiles (also motor tricycles , both passenger and freight- carrying) , chassis with or without motor and bodies imported separately, weighing each :
not over 1000 kilograms :
complete passenger automobiles , single replacement parts of chassis (20 )
over 1000 kilograms :
complete passenger automobiles , complete chassis , single replacement parts of chassis (20)
trucks , autobuses , automobiles inseparably connected with a working mechanism, chassis with or without motor and bodies imported separately, weighing each
not over 1500 kilograms :
complete trucks , complete chassis , single replacement parts of chassis (20 )

per 100 kilograms : 3400.2900.2900.-

tractors and motor ploughs :
tractors , weighing each not over 3000 kilograms ..
airplanes :
complete airplanes , weighing each not over 10.000 kilograms
complete airplanes , weighing each over 10.000 kilograms

1300.-
ad valorem 40% 25%

Automobile and airplane engines : airplane engines ....

per 100 kilograms : 20.000.-

Note to 554. Carburetors falling under this Tariff Number are dutiable at the same rate to
which are subject carburetors classified under T.No.537 .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A687

SCHEDULE X B CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number Noto to 554 Ast sentence)
ox 571
ex 573 b)

Description of products

Rate of duty

Kc 8

Single parts of engines under this Tariff

per 100 kilograms:

number imported separately , which are completely

finished and which can be recognized without

doubt as parts of such engines , are subject to

the rate of duty applicable to the various

types of engines , provided that the importer

submits a certificate establishing without

doubt that such parts belong to engines of

that particular type and weight,

XLIII PRECIOUS METALS , PRECIOUS AND SEMIPRECIOUS STONES AND ARTICLES THEREOF, COINS.

Gene , real ( procious and semi- precious stones ) , corals ( real or imitation ) , worked ( polished , cut) , unset, real pearls , unset:
gems , real ( precious and semi-precious stones), worked (polished , cut ) , unset ( also piezoelectric quartz , cut , unset )
XLIV. INSTRUMENTS, CLOCKS AND WATCHES.
Instruments ( except
tho classified under Class XLI. and  t

3000.-

musica l instruments ) :

Surgical apparatus and instruments and other medical apparatus and instruments :
of other materials

per kilogrami 200.-

ex 574

Mathematical and physical instruments:

ex b)

other:

water meters ......

20.-

ex 576

Apparatus and instruments , not specially provided fori

typewriters , calculating machines (also cash registers), bookkeeping , duplicating , accounting, statistical , addressing and franking machines :

typewriters ( 21 ) , calculating machines

(also cash registers ) ......

40.-

A688

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X · CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Azechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty
 per kilogram

+2

(Cont'd) ex b)
ex 578 b) 1. 2.

bookkeeping, duplicating , accounting,

statistical , addressing and franking machines

25.-

otheri

sound recording and reproducing devices , ex-

cluding records therefor ( 22) .........

15.-

blank dictating machine cylinders

15.-

bank proofing machines , test-scoring machines

15.-

controlling date- recording devices

25.-

Balances and parts of balances , except balances of precision falling under T.No.5741
othert
incline balances , weighing each 50 kilograms less .......
other

per 100 kilogramsi 3000, -
1500.-

Watches :

ex 589

Watches and watch movements , not specially provided for clock frames ; pinions with pins set in and wheels riveted :
time controlling watches and similar time controlling and recording devices ....
XLVI. CHEMICAL AUXILIARY SUBSTANCES AND CHEMICAL PRODUCTS.

2500.-

ex 596

Elemente specially pro ided fori

ex a)

sulphur ( in pieces and bars ) , also ground , and flowers of sulphur ; selenium; bromine , iodine ; phosphorus; antimony , metallics quicksilver:

sulphur (in pieces and bars ) , also ground

iodine

free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A689

SCHEDULE X 1 CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

ex 597 1)

Oxides and base specially provided
arsenic trioxide .....

fort

 per 100 kilograms :
20.-

6 alts and other compound specially provided fort

ex 599

Salts of potassium sodium and ammonium ,   1 a l 1 y provided for :

ex a) ex 1.
ex 2.

manuring salts ( salts of potassium in their natural combination, so-called abraum and waste salts, as well as artificial manures from mixtures of salts); chloride of potassium; nitrate of sodium ( natural sodium saltpeter Chili saltpeter and artificial synthetic sodium saltpeter) , not refined; crude borax ; tartar, crude ; wine lees , dry, beet potash :
nitrate of sodium (natural sea saltpeter. Chili saltpeter and artificial synthetic Baltpeter) , not refined:

nitrate of sodium (natural sodium saltpeter_
Chili saltpeter and artificial synthetic saltpeter) , not refined , on special permit of the Ministry of Foreign Trade (23) ......

free
for an annual quota,
equivalent to the average annual imports from the territories of the
contracting parties , in the years 1934-
1938 inclusive

otheri

Grude borax ; beet potash

free

A690

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

Rate of duty

ex 1 ) 2.

bicarbonate of potassium and of sodium sulphite of sodium , solid; bisulphite of sodium, solid; hyposulphite ( thiosulphate ) of sodium, solid:
bicarbonate of potassium and of sodium

Xcs per 100 kilogrames
240.-

ex 600 d)

Compounds of calcium · strontium · barium and magnesium , specially provided for :
bone-black (bone charcoal )

100.-

ad

ex 601

Compounds of aluminium , iron chromium , nicke 1 and
obalt · specially Provided for :

ex a)

iron mordants of all kinds ; green vitriol ;
mineral zaffer , cobalt blue ( smalt) , strewing smalt :

mineral zaffer , cobalt blue ( smals) , strewing

smalt ......

20.-

ex 604 8)

Organic Compounds specially provided fori
salicylic acid and derivatives thereof.
salicylic acid , technical , imported through the customs offices in Cheb , Plze , Praha and Ústí nad Labem
other ......

1500.3000.-

Other shemical auxilia materials and producta :

ex 605

Lamp black ( Boot ) , charcoal powder and ground blacks ( except granulated bone charcoal elassified under 600 d ) :

a)

lamp black

40.-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A691

SCHEDULE

CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

ex 610 a)

Gelatine ( purified , dried of animal or vegetable origin) , also pulverised and articles thereof:
gelatine

Rate of duty Kcs
per 100 kilograms :
550.-

ex 611

Glue of all kinds , also isinglass : fish glue , liquid , in casks ....

200.-

Note I to Casein imported under licence for the manufacture

612 b)

of artificial horn, under supervision and on

conditions imposed by regulation

free

ex 613

Starch ( also starch meal .) : rice starch ( also rice starch meal )

170.-

ex 614 a)

Gluten; starch gume (also dextrine , and dextrine gums) and other gum substitutes not specially provided for; paste , size and similar amylaceous sticking and dressing products :
gluten

750.-

ex 618

Substitutes for soap , not perfumed ; polish; cleaning pastes , not containing soap ; starch glate :
cleaning pastes , not containing soap

800.-

ex 621

Gases condensed , liquefied or solidified , not specially provided for :
argon ......

ad valorems 15%

ex 622 ex d)

Chemical auxiliary materials and products not specially provided for : other :
cellulose acetate ; rennet , solid

Note 3 to 622 d )

Silicium carbide and artificial oorundum imported
for purposesof manufacturing grinding articles , under special licence , on conditions imposed by regulation .....

per 100 kilogramsi 10.-

A692

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X w CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I (Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number

Description of products

XLVII.

VARNISHES , COLOURS , PHARMACEUTICAL WARES AND PERFUMERY. Colours :

Rate of duty
Kc. per 100 kilograms:

ex 626 ex b) 627 628
ex 630
ex a)
ex 3. ax (3) ex 1. ex 2.

Colours not specially provided for : otheri
ultramarine blue
All colours in the form of tablets etc. , in small bags , pastes , tubes , bladders , cups , glasses , shells and boxes .............
Inks, ink powder , sealing wax .....
Pharmaceutical wares and perfumery :
Pharmaceutical wares , prepared , as well as all substances represented by the inscriptions thereon, by their labela , wrappers and the like as being medicines , also medicines for animals; wadding and bandages prepared for medicinal purposes :
pharmaceutical wares , prepared , as well as substances represented by the inscriptions thereon , by their labels , wrappers and the like as being medicines , also medicines for animals :
other : otheri
prepared for retail sale : fish oil
otheri fish oil

850. 2000.800.-
2000,2000.-

631

Vinegar, fats and oils , perfumed :

a)

in receptacles weighing 5 kilogrames.or more

b)

in receptacles under 5 kilograms

6Q0.2250.-

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A693

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA

PART I ( Continued)

Czechoslovak Tariff Item
Number
633

Description of products
Articles of perfumery ( and all scented substances and mixtures represented by their wrappers , label,directions for use and the like as being articles of perfumery) ; cosmetics :

Rate of duty
Kcs per 100 kilograms :

a)

not containing alcohol ( paints , perfumed

powder , hair oils , pomades , tooth pastes ,

fumigating pastilles )

6000.-

b)

containing alcohol

10.000.-

XLVIII. CANDLES , SOAP AND ARTICLES OF WAX.

ex 637 b)

Soap:
fine , namely perfumed or in tablets , balls , boxes, jars!
cleaning pastes , containing soap other

800. 1100.-

LI. WASTE .

ex 652
a) ex b)

Animal and other manures , also artificial manures not elsewhere included , wood and coal ashes ; bones ; bone ashes ; worn out bone charcoal only to manuring purposes ; bone meals ; Thomas slag and other slags , also ground ; shavings of horns and hoofs; blood , liquid or dried ; animal sinews ) waste meat for manuring purposes ; residues from the manufacture of fri ocyanide of potassium ; ammoniacal water (ga: water) , not concentrated :
bone meals .....
other:
fish meal , dried blood , animal sinews , meat waste for manuring purposes .....

10.free

A694

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA PART I (Continued)

NOTES TO SPECIFIC ITEL'S

(1)

Wine berries and grapes , dried , when packaged for retail sale ,

shall also be subject to the agreed rate of Kcs 180.- per 100 kilograms .

(2)

The fees for phytopathological inspection of pears and apples ,

the products of the contracting parties , packed in cases , crates ,

and barrels , shall not be higher than Kcs 10.- per 100 kilograms.

(3)

The period of three months prior to importation within which

apples have to be picked in order to be eligible for the application

of the conventional rate of 75.- Kcs per 100 kilograms dates back

from the day of customs clearance in Czechoslovakia . The consignments

of apples are to be accompanied by a certificate indicating the

time of picking . The Government of the exporting country will

agree with the Czechoslovak Government upon a list of names of

authorities of the exporting country which will be charged with

issuing the certificates .

(4)

Plums , dried , when packaged for retail sale , shall also be

subject to the agreed rate of Kcs 60.- per 100 kilograms.

(5)

Apples and pears , both dried and unpeeled , whether whole or cut

up, when packaged for retail sale , shall also be subject to the

agreed rate of Kcs 50.- per 100 kilograms .

Fruit not specially provided for , dried , when packaged for retail sale , shall also be subject to the agreed rate of Kcs 100.per 100 kilograme .

(6)

Dried fruit , the products of the contracting parties ,

containing up to 2000 miligrams of sulphur dioxide in 1 kilogram

of dried fruit , shall not be withheld from trade as harmful to

health , provided it complies with other principles and regulations

of the Czechoslovak Codex alimentarius , especially with regard

to marking.

(7)

At such time as the Food and Agriculture Organization of the

United Nations finds that the situation in respect to supplies of

edible fats and oils in Europe , in relation to the demand thereof,

has been restored to a condition approximating that in the years

immediately prior to 1938 , the Government of Czechoslovakia will ,

upon the request of any contracting party having a substantial

interest in the exportation of lard to Czechoslovakia , enter into

negotiations with such contracting party with a view to reaching

a mutually satisfactory agreement with respect to the treatment

accorded by Czechoslovakia to imported lard,

Meanwhile , the ratio between the tariff rates on raw lard and rendered lard shall not exceed 3 to 4.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A695

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA PART I ( Continuod)

(8)

Unthickoned citrus fruit juices dutiablo undor Tariff Item

109 a) and other unthickened fruit and berry juicos ( except

apple, respberry and grape juices ) dutiable under Tariff Item

109 b) 2. shall also be subject to the agroed rates of Kcs 200.-

or Kcs 400,- rospectivoly per 100 kilograms even when packed

in hermetically sealed containers.

(9)

In addition to the certificate of officially controlled

appellation of origin or , as the case may be , of the certificate

of origin , all wine imported into Czechoslovakia shall also be

accompanied by a cortificate of analysis issued by official

laboratories , the list of which will be fixed of common accord

between the competent authorities of both the exporting country and of Czechoslovakia.

The certificates of analysis will contain:

specific weight , alcohol content in degrees , content of all acids , content of volatilo acids , content of extract ,
sugar content , content of extract without sugar,
content of ashes (mineral matters) , a declaration showing that it is a natural
wine without any ingredients.

In respect of wino , subject to control of origin, it will be possible to replace the certificate of officially controlled appellation of origin by a special certificate showing the origin and quality of the product and conforming to the form mutually agreed upon by the competent authorities of the oxporting country and of Czechoslovakia . This document will equally replace the certificate of analysis mentioned above.

(10)

Vegetablo Bauces , except tomato sauce , are dutiablo at the

same rate as "preserved vegetables ,pther , except preserved tomatoes",

1.e. Kcs 700.- per 100 kilograms .

(11)

Boards for the manufacture of skis shall be dutiable under

this Tariff Number even when sealed at both ends with paraffin ete.

(12)

Under "other" essential oils are also dutiable cinnamon oil

and citronella oil.

(13)

Linters , freed from grease , bloachod , but not shaped , shall

be dutiable under T.No.180.

(14)

It is agreed that the term "hemp" also covers New Zealand

flax (Phormium tenax).

A696

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA PART I ( Continued)

(15)

Cuttings and other waste of leather classified under Tariff

Numbers 329 , 330 , 333-337 , shall not be considered as sorted even

whon they are of the same kind or of the same colour.

(16)

Ferro-silicon with Si contont form 40% up to 50% shall also

be classified under Tar.Item 428 c ) and exempt from duty.

(17)

Rocord keeping equipment , whether insulated or not , and with

or without locks , shall be subject to the agreed rate of Kcs 1300.-

per 100 kilograms.

(18)

Completely assembled mechanical refrigerators , even with very

fine finish, on importation into Czechoslovakia , shall be classified

under Tariff Number 476 , at the rate of Kcs 1700.- per 100 kilograms.

(19)

Electric refrigerating units are composed of an electric motor

joined with a compressor fitted with a condenser. The complete unit

may be equipped with an automatic electric sub-in and cut-out and with a fan

and is regularly mounted on a base,

(20)

The concession in respect of replacement parts of passenger

automobile chassis or truck chassis is limited to single replacement

parts only for the repair of passenger automobile chassis or truck

chassis already imported into Czechoslovakia.

(21)

Should the maintenance of the rate of duty of Kcs 40.- per

kilogram on typewriters seriously affect the Czechoslovak typewriter

manufacturing industry , the Government of the Czechoslovak Republic

may find it necessary to invoke Articlo XIX of this Agreement with

a view to seeking an appropriate adjustment of the rate of duty of

Kc 40.- per kilogram as provided for in that Article.

(22)

Under " sound recording and reproducing devices" are understood

phonographs , gramophones , dictating machines , transcribing machines and the like.

(23)

It is understood that the " special permit of the Ministry of

Foreign Trade" has the sole object to certify to the Czechoslovak

customs authorities that the imported saltpeter , subject to the

specific quota , shall be admitted duty free , and further to guarantee

the necessary control and distribution by the said Ministry.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30 , 1947

A697

SCHEDULE X - CZECHOSLOVAKIA
PART I ( Concluded)
GENERAL NOTES The specific rates of duty of 50.- Kcs or less per 100 kilograms are understood on gross weight , unless other wise indicated in this Schedule. The specific rates of duty of over 50.- Kca per 100 kilograms are understood on net weight , unless otherwise indicated in this Schedule.
-0-
PART II Preferential Tariff
Nil .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT . 30, 1947

A699

Revised Translation by Department of State
SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE This schedule is authentic only in the French language
Bestion A. lietropolitan territory PART I
Mest-Favoured- Nation Tariff

French Tariff Item lo
LA
Ex 4 Ex
8B
10

1 ·

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

Chapter
LIVE ANIMALS (except fish, orustaceans and mollusos) , Horses, draught or saddle ( foals , stallions , goldings and mares) :
pure-bred animals for breeding purposes ...
Other :
draught horses , admitted in the limits of an annual quota of 800 heads , under the conditions laid down by a decree of the French Minister of Agriculture ..
other ......
Bovine cattle ( calves , yearling bulls , steers, heifers, bulls, oows, oxen) , including animala of the buffalo genus:
pure-bred animals for breeding purposes ...
Sheep (lambs , rams , ewes , wethers) : puro-bred animals for breeding purposes ...
Swine (young pigs and pigs ) : pure-bred animals for breeding purposes ...
Poultry, living , other:
ohioks, so-called " one-day ohioks" , admitted in the limits of a quota fixed each year by deoree of the French Minister of Agriculture and under the conditions laid down by said text
other
Dogs

Free
35 45%
Free Free Free
36% 45% Free

A700

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
13A 13B 13C Ex 14
Ex 15 Ex 17 Ex 22A

Description of Products
Chapter 2
MEAT AND OFFALS
Fresh or frozen meat of the bovine , sheep, pig. horse, ass and mule kind :
beef and veal .....
mutton and lamb
pork, excluding bacon
Offals , edible , fresh or frozen, entered separately :
livers
Poultry , dead ( including fresh livers , other than goose or duok) , not truffled .....
Game, dead , not truffled
Meat, salted, dried, smoked, cooked or only otherwise prepared , of pork: raw, smoked hams of Praga and the like, with a certificate of origin and quality , delivered by the competent authorities of the consignor country , recognised by the French Minister of Agriculture

Rate of duty ad valorem
40% 35% 40% 20% 25%
5%
30%

Chapter 3

FISH CRUSTACEANS AND MOLLUSCS

Fresh-water fish, fresh ( live or dead ) or preserved in a fresh condition :

Ex 23A

salmoridae: smelt and other (except trout )

10%

23B

other species:

oarp and tenoh

15%

eels , pike and other

10%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A701

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
24

Description of Products
Sea-fish, fresh ( live or dead) or preserved in a fresh condition :

whole, beheaded or out into pieces: bass, brill , sole and turbot

coalfish, sturgeon, lote (frog-fish) ,
mullet or murgil , red gurnet, surmillot and other

fillets of fish

Fish, simply salted , dried or snaked :

25A

horring (salted , dried , smoked , kippers ,

in fillets) .....

25D

haddook ....

25E

other

Crustaceans , fresh ( live or dead ) or simply cooked, salted or dried :

26A

80a crustaceans :

shrimps

tails of spiny lobsters and of lobsters

other (whole spiny lobsters and lobsters , orabs , Norway lobsters , prawns , eto.)

26B

other (orayfish, etc. ) ..

Rate of duty el valorem
25% but not less than frs.17.50 per kg. gross weight .
33% but not less than frs.12.50 per kg gross weight
35% but not less than frs.25 por kg. gross weight
30% 30% 30%
20% 35%
10% 10%

95347 O 49- -pt. 5- 45

A702

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
Ex 27A

Description of Products
Sea molluses and shell-fish, fresh ( live or dead) or simply cooked , salted or dried :
oysters, other mussels ......

other (clams , cephalopods , etc.)

Rate of duty ad valorem
15% 15% 10%

Chapter 4 MILK AND DAIRY PRODUCTS EGGS AND HONEY :

30

30 Condensed milk, including buttermilk, lactoserum and cream, condensed :

without sugar .....

10%

with addition of sugar

15%

31 Butter, fresh, melted or salted

25%

32 Cheese of all kinds

18%

Eggs of birds:

33A

eggs in the shell, fresh or preserved by

cold or by any permitted process:

eggs for brooding purposes , admitted

in the limits of a quota fixed each

year by decree of the French Minister

of Agriculture and under the conditions

laid down by said text

15%

other ......

20%

Ex 38B

eggs, whole (white and yolk) , shelled:

unsweetened :

in lumps or in powder

20%

other .....

3x

sweetened , in lumps or in powder ....

30%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A703

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
Ex 330

Description of Products
egg yolk, unsweetened: intended for manufacturing purposes and denaturated ........ other

Rate of duty ad valorem
Free 20%

Chapter 5 .

RAW MATERIALS AND OTHER RAW PRODUCTS OF ANIMAL ORIGIN.

36 Horsehair:

raw or in bundles

curled, without baoking or sheeted on backing
87 Pigs and boars ' bristles , badger hair and other hair for the manufacture of brushes , raw or prepared ...
guts, bladders and stomachs of animals:

38A

calves ' rennet bags , fresh or dried,

whether or not out .............

38B

other, fresh, salted or dried ......

39 Waste of green hides and of untanned hides

and skins , sinews , nerves , tails and other

untanned similar waste

.....

Feathers :

42A

bed feathers and down , raw or prepared ..

42D

feathers for other uses , raw or simply

cleaned .....

43 Bones (bones , raw, degreased or ground, waste of worked bones , horn-cores , acidulated bones , bone powder from degelatinised or undegelatinised bones )

Free 5% Free
Free Free Free Free Free
Free



A704

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

Frenoh Tariff Item No,
44
45 48
65 58

Description of Products
Horns and antlers of animals, raw, with or without horn- oores and frontal bone, in waste, flattened or out up .........
Hoofs of animals , claws and birds ' beaks , raw, in waste, flattened or out up .........
Shells, empty :
mother of pearl , in rough shells or simply sawn or separated from its orust..
other
Roe, of cod, of mackerel and the like ....
Raw animal products and animal offals , not elsewhere specified or included; dead animals not intended for human consumption..

Rate of duty ad valorem
Free Free
Free Free Free
Free

Chapter 6 ,

LIVE PLANTS AND PRODUCTS OF FLORICULTURE.

Bulbous plants , tubers , onions , olaw-shapod roots and rhizomes:

61A

bulbs , tubers , onions , alaw- shaped roots

and rhizomes of flowering and foliage

plants not in process of growth;

asparagus roots:

admitted in the limits of an annual

quota of 20,000 quintals gross weight.

10

other ......

35

61B

plants in full growth , in blossom or not:

admitted in the limits of an annual

quota of 4,000 quintals gross weight..

10

other

35

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A705

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Doscription of Products

65

62 Bushy plants known as "half-hardy" ,
used for decorating gardens and
requiring sholtor in the winter, in blossom or not ......

63 Hothouse or greenhouse plants , in blossom or not:

admitted in the limits of an annuai quota of 20,000 quintals, gross weight.
other ....

64 Bursery plants, poronnial open air plante and other live plants , not elsewhere specified or ineluded, in blossen or noti

laurus nobilis (noble laurel) other ...

65A Cut flowers and buds for bouquets or for ornaments, fresh:
orchids ......

roses, lilac and other ....

Foliage , leaves , branchos , grasses and mosses, for bouquets or for ornaments:

66A

fresh ............

66B

dried , dyed, bleached, impregnated or

otherwise prepared , mounted or not ....

Rate of duty ad valorem
30%
10% 40%
25% 30%
20% 30%
25% 15%

Chaptor I.

VEGETABLES EDIBLE PLANTS. ROOTS AND TUBERS.

Vegetables and pot-herbs , fresh or in a like condition

67B

olives and capers ....

10%

A706

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
67C
67D
Ex 67E
67F 670 67H
671 67J

Description of Products

tomatoes :

from July 1st to September 30th inclusive ·····

outside the above period onions, shallots and garlic:
onions and shallots

garlic

potatoes :

seed-potatoes , admitted in the limits

of a quota fixed each year by decree

of the French Minister of Agriculture

and under the conditions laid down by

said text

......

other :

from July 1st to the last day of February ......

outsido the above period : previous year's potatoes ...
asparagus ...... cabbages of any kind, including cauliflowers and Brussel sprouts
spinach and various salads :
Witloof chicory known as " endive" ...
other ....
carrots , turnips , salad beets , salsify and other similar edible roots

loguminous vegetables (French beans , haricots in grains , frosh in the pod, peas in the pod , etc. )

Rato of duty ad valorem
30% 15% 20% 18%
15%
30% 25% 20% 1%8 18% 18% 18% 18%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A707

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
Ex 67K 67M
68B 68C
69A 69B 69C 69D 69E

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

eucumbers and gherkins

20%

other ......

18%

Vegetables and pot-herbs , desiccated, dehydrated or drained :

potatoes , whether or not cut in pieces

or slices ..............

15%

other, whether or not cut in pieces or

slices or mixed (juliennes ) ...

5%

Pulso :

haricots, in grains , decorticated, broken

or split

20%

beans and horse-beans , in grains,

decorticated, broken or split

12%

chick-peas ......

18%

other peas, in grains , decorticated, broken

or split ........

18

lentils , in grains , docorticated, broken

or split .....

18%

Chaptor 8

EDIBLE TRUSTS.

Tropical fruits, fresh or dried:

Ex 71B

bananas, fresh .....

20%

710

coconuts, Brazil nuts , cashew nuts,

anaoard nuts and similar fruits

2%

71D

pineapples ....

5%

713

other .....

5%

A708

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
72A
72C 72D Ex 73 Ex 74A
74B 75A
75C

Description of Products
Citrus fruits , fresh or dry: oranges (swoet and bitter ) : from June 1st to August 31st ..... outside said period lemons grapefruit
Figs , dried Grapes:
fresh : unforced , table , outside the period from July 15 to October 31 inclusive forced ......
driod (raisins) ..... Shell fruits , fresh or dry:
almonds : fresh .... dry, in tho shell or shollod
common walnuts: in the shell .... shelled

Rate of duty ad valorem
25% 35% 10% 25% 10%
15% 25% 15%
15% Froo
5% 15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30 , 1947

A709

-

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
76A
76B
76C Ex 77B
77C 77D 773

Description of Products
Apples , pears and quinoes , fresh: apples : table apples : from February 15th to March 31st inclusive .......
from April 1st to May 31st inclusive . ..................
from June 1st to July 31st inclusive
outside the above periods oider applos
pears : table pears: from December 1st to June 30th inclusive ........ outside the above period ..... perry pears ....
quinoes Stone fruits , fresh:
peaches, including "brugnons" and nectarines , forced cherries
plums : from June 1st to October 31st inclusive
outside the abovo period ... other

Rate of duty ad valorem
8% 3% 8% 12 % 10%
8% 12 % 15% 12 %
35% 20 %
20% 15% 20%

A710

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Edible berries , fresh:

78A

strawberries :

unforood from May 1st to October 31st

outside the above period

forced :

78B

raspberries

78C

red, white and black currants , and goose-

berries .....

78D

whortleberries and other berries

Other fruits , fresh :

79A

melons and the like ...

79B

unspecified

Apples , pears , quinces , stone fruits , berries and other fruits , dried or drained , whether or not cut in pieces or sliced :

80A

dried fruit macedoines , with or without

raisins or other dried fruits of the above

kinds :

not containing prunes

containing prunes

80B

apples and pears :

table apples and pears ......

oider apples or perry pears ......

80C

apricots , including dried paste , neither

cooked nor sweetened ......

80D

peaches , including "brugnons " and nectarines

Rate of duty ad valorem
20 % 15 % 30 % 5% 5% 5%
10% 5%
10% Dutiable as
prunes
10% 10% 10% 10%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A711

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
80E
BOF

Description of Products
prunes other

Chapter 9

COFFEE TEA AND SPICES

Ex 81A Coffee, unroasted , in the bean, also husks .. 82 Tea:

green black ....

83 Vanilla .....

Pepper ("piper" kind)

84A

common pepper (piper nigrum ) ........

84B

other (Cubeb pepper, eto. ) ...

85B Allspice (pimento) (of the capsicum kind, except capsicum grossum , and pimenta kind) , other ......

86 Cinnamon and cinnamon-tree flowers ..

87 Cloves and clove stems ..... 88 Nutmegs, with or without shell .. 89 Mace .....

93 Bx 97

Chapter 10 CEREALS
Wheat, spelt and meslin Rioe, in whole grains , husked , including glazed ...

Rate of duty ad valorem
25% 5%
20%
30% 45% Free
30% 30%
20% 30% 30% 35% 20%
30% 30%

A712

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

98 Maize 100 Millet, dari , canary seed and other cereals ...

Rate of duty ad valorem
30% 20%

Chapter 11

MILLING PRODUCTS ; MALT : STARCH AND FECULAR

Groats, semolina , husked or pearled cereal grains , crushed grains and grist , flakes :

102A

of wheat , spelt and meslin ....

102 B

of barley

1020

of oats

102D

of rice ( except husked rice and broken rice)

102E

of maize

102F

other .....

103C Pulse and fruit flours not elsewhere specified or included: of soya and other oil seeds and oleaginous fruits

104 Ex 107

Brans , sharps and other residues of screening , milling and husking of cereal grains and pulse, excluding spouts
Malt, whole

Ex 108 Rice starch

109 Feculae :

Manioc potato , sago, tavolo , arrowroot and other

30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30%
12%
Pree 30% 30%
20% 30%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A713

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Chapter 12

OIL SEEDS AND OLEAGINOUS FRUITS : MISCELLANEOUS GRAINS SEEDS AND FRUITS : INDUSTRIAL AND
MEDICINAL PLANTS ; STRAWY AND PODDER.

Oil seeds and oleaginous fruits , whether or not crushed :

112A

peanuts, in the shell or shelled

112B

copra ......

112C

palm nuts and palm kernels .

112D

soya beans

112E

castor oil seeds and pulghera seeds ..............

112F

linseed :

for sowing, admitted in the limits of an annual quota

other ....

1120

seeds of colza , rape, mustard, charlock,

camelina and other aruciferous plants ......

112H

sunflower seeds

1128

hemp seeds .....

112K

cotton seeds ...

1121

sesame seeds .....

112N

mowra and fetid hellebore seeds

1120

illipe seeds

112F

karite rods ....

1120

other

Rate of duty ad valoram
8%
Free 8% 8% 8% 8% 8% 8%4 8% 8% 8% 8%

A714

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Seeds and fruits for sowing not elsewhere specified or included :

113A

beetroot seeds :

sugar-beet other .....

113B

vetch and lupine ...

113C

clover , lucern, hop clover, ray-grass ,

sainfoin , graminaceous and other fodder

seeds ..

113D

flower seeds

113E

other

116 Chicory roots :

green .. dry, whether cut up or not , not roasted .

Ex 117 118D
Ex 118F 118G

ilops ; cones and waste ......
Plants, parts of plants , seeds and fruits, used for perfumery or in medicine :
roots (of marshmallow or althea, a gentian, valerian , liquorice , rotenone plants and other, fresh or dried , raw, cut , crushed or ground) .....
plants in bouquets , flower tops and cleaned leaves , other
flowers :

apetalous in bags

of mullein , borage , camomile, marshmallow , mallow, pansies , " roses de Prorins" , elder , lime- tree , violets and other

118H

fruits and seeds ( elderberries and other)

Rate of duty ad valorem
40% 30% Free Free Free Free
8% 10% 15%
Free 5%
Free
10% Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A715

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
119A 119C
119D 119E 120
121

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

Plants, parts of plants , seeds and fruits used for human food or for fodder, not elsewhere specified or included :
seeds of anise , badian, fennel , coriander, juniper, cumin and caraway carob beans , fresh or desicated :
whole .....
crushed, in flakes or flour maté
fruit stones (peach, apricot, plum, sherry, etc. ) ......
Cereal straw and bales of cereals :
Straw, raw or chopped up bales
Fodder

5%
15% 25% Free Free
5% Free
5%

Chapter 13

RAW MATERIALS FOR DYEING AND TANNING : GUMS , RESINS AND OTHER VEGETABLE SAPS , JUICES AND
EXTRACTS

123 Vegetable raw materials for dyeing...

Vegetable raw materials for tanning :

124B

barks (wattle-bark, mangrove bark and other )

124C

fruits

124D

leaves

124E

roots

124F

gall-nuts

Free
Free Free Free Free Free

A716

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

126A 126B Ex 126C
127

Gums and gum-resins , raw or prepared: guas used in aqueous medium (gum arabic , gum tragacanth and other) ......
gums for varnishes ( acroid gum , manila, copal , dammar, kauri , sandarac gums and other)
other gums :
shellac , unbleached
gamboge, olibanum (frankincense ) , myrrh, opopanax, labdanum , galbanum and other
Natural balsams

130F Vegetable saps , juices and extracts , not elsewhere specified or included :
aloes ....

131A 131B
131C

Vegetable materials used in basket-making and sparterie, not elsewhere specified or included

osier

bamboos , reeds and the like:

raw or simply split ....

polished , stained , painted , varnished

or decorated ......

....

canes, rattans and the like:

raw or simply split : raw rattans and Malacca canes in original bundles
other

Rate of duty ad valorem Free Free Free Free Free
5%
5% Free
5%
5% Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30 , 1947

A717

SCHEDULE XI · FRANGE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Desoription of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

stripped (rattan pith ) , whether or not split ; in splints ( 6olisses ) known as spun rattans (filós ) ....

131D

alfa, esparto and arundo (diss )

131E

cereal straw, cleaned , bleached or dyed,

with or without ears ........

131P

raffia, lime-bark and other materials

132A Vogetable materials for stuffing and padding, whether twisted together or not: kapok ...

133A Vegetable materials for brooms and brushes , not elsewhere specified or included : couchCrass , piassaba, ixtle and the like , including imitations in splints ( lames ) of wood or other materials :

raw, in bundles or torsades

oombed, out, bleached or dyed

7% Free
5% Free Free
Froe 5%

Chapter 15
FATTY SUBSTANCES , GREASES OILS AND THEIR CLEAVAGE PRODUCTS: PREPARED EDIBLE FATS; WAXES OF ANIMAL
OR VEGETABLE ORIGIN .

Ex 136 Lard, refined .......

35%

139 Tallows , melted , including tallows called

"premiers jus" ......

15%

140 Fat from bones , offal and the like

16%

142 Oleostearine (prossed tallow)

20%

145C Fats and oils from fish and marine animals ,

crude or refined , other

20%

95347 0-49- pt. 5- 46

A718

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
144A 144B 144C 145
146A 146 B 146C
146D
146E
146F

Description of Products
Wool grease and its derivatives : Suintine oleine and stearine produced from wool grease ...... lanoline, industrial and pure Codex ....
Other fats and oils of animal origin, not elsewhere specified or included ....... Fixed oils, liquid or slid , of vegetable origin, orude or refined:
linseed oil , orude ..... ohina wood oil , orude; abrasin or eleococea oils , orude ............... Soya, sunflower , maize oils , orude :
intended for soap works .... other cotton-seed oil , crude : intonded for soap works other .... ground nut oil , crude: intended for soap works ... other .... sesame oil, crude: intended for soap works other

Rate of duty ad valorem
15% 20% 20% 12%
12%
12
8% 12% 8% 12% 8% 12%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A719

-

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1460
146H
1461 146J
146K
146N 2460 160 1514 1518 161C 153

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

colza, rapeseed , mustard, camelina oils and oils of other oruciferous plants , orude:

intended for soap works

8%

other ......

12 %

olive oil , crudo:

intonded for soap works

6%

other .....

12%

castor and pulghora oils , crude

10%

palm oil , orudo :

intended for soap works or for stearine

works ........

.....

6%

other ....

12%

palm-kernel and coconut ( copra ) oils , crude :

intended for soap works or for

stoarine works .......

6%

other ......

12%

othor vegetable oils , erude

12%

vegetable oils, rofinod

12%

Degras Fatty acids , industrial :

oleic acid .....

15%

stearic acid

15%

other ......

15%

Stearin pitch and wool yolk pitch ....

5%

A720

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continuod )

French Tariff Item No. Ex 158A
159A 1598 169C 159D
159E 159F

Description of Products
Beeswax, orude , including wasto ..... Vogetable waxes:
oarnauba wax candelilla wax gum- lac wax ..... fiber wax (alfa, esparto , cotton, flax , eto. ) Japan wax other ( alm tree wax, myrica, pisang , curicuri etc. wax)

Rate of duty ad valorem
Free
Free Free Free Free
Froe

Chapter 16
PREPARATIONS AND PRESERVES OF EAT FISH CRUSTACEANS AND MOLLUSCS .

Other preparations and preserves of meat , in tine, terrines , pastry or other forms, whether mixed or not with vegetables or other vegetable products:

162A

of game, poultry , rabbit , truffled or not

12%

Ex 162B

of pork, not truffled

50%

1620

of mutton

30%

Ex 162D

not specified , not truffled

50%

Ex 163

Extracts of meat, puro , put up in packages

of 25 kg . gross weight and over

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A721

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Itom No.
Ex164
165

Description of Products
Fish, prepared or preserved, put up: in tins, glasses , jars and hermetically sealed containers : salmonidae ... other (except sardines ) otherwise
Crustaceans and molluscs , prepared or preserved, put up:
in tins , glasses , jars and hermetically sealed containers otherwise

Rato of duty ad valorem
25% 25% 25%
10% 10%

Chapter 17

SUGARS AND CONFECTIONERY .

168A Maple sugar and maple syrup

30%

169 Glucose

70%

170 Lactose ..

10%

Ex 172 Molasses:

intended for the preparation of molasses products for feeding cattle ....................

other (excluding molasses intended for

distillation) .....

40%

173 Confectionery (bonbons , pastilles , dragees , caramels, nougats , etc. ) without cocoa or chocolate :

containing an alcoholic liquor ......

30%

A722

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products
not containing an alcoholic liquor: ohowing gums and the like other ..

Rate of duty ad valorem
10% 30%

Chaptor 18

COCOA AND PREPARATIONS THEREOF.

176

Cocoa in beans and broken beans , roasted

or not ... ...... .

177

Cocoa shells , husks , shoots and skins ....

178

Cocoa in the mass (cocoa paste ) or in

tablets ...................

179

Coooa butter , including cocoa fat and oil .

180

Cocoa powder ...

181

Chocolato in lumps (plates , slabs , tablets ,

pastilles , croquettes , various articles,

eto. ) in powder , or cranulated ......

182

Confectionery with oocoa , cocoa butter or

chocolate ( tablets , filled bars (batons

fourrés ), bouchées , truffles , pralinos ,

bonbons , etc. ) , various proparations , not

elsewhere specified or includod, containing cocoa, cocoa butter or

chocolate , with or without sugar or othor

alimentary substancos :

containing an alcoholic liquor

other

25% 25% 25% 25 % 25% 30 %
30 % 30 %

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A723

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
Ex 183
185A 186 Ex 187B

Description of Products
Chapter 19 .
PREPARATIONS WITH A BASIS OF FLOUR OR FECULA.
Flour , fooula and malt extracts , prepared for infants ' food or for dietetic or culinary use, without cocoa, other : simple flour, compound flour ......
Bakers' products : ship's biscuits Gingerbread
Dry biscuits , without cocoa or containing less than 20% of cocoa:
without sugar or honey sweetened

Rate of duty ad valorem
35% 22 % 35%
18% 28%

Chapter 20

PREPARATIONS OF VEGETABLES , POT-HERBS FRUIT AND OTHER PLANTS OR PARTS OF
PLANTS.

189

Vegetables , pot-herbs , fruit and other

plants and parts of plants preserved in

vinegar , with or without salt , spices or

mustard, including picklos , piccalillies

and the like , put up:

in tins , glasses , jars and hermetically

sealed containers .....

25 %

otherwise (in casks , vats , etc . ) ....

20%

Vegetables , pot-herbs and other plants or parts of plants , preserved without vinogar, whether or not seasoned or cooked , without meat or fish, put up:

A724

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No. Ex 190A
190B

Description of Products
in tins , glasses , jars and hermetically soaled containers :
mushrooms tomatoes and tomato saucos , containing in dry oxtract :
loss than 7% (tomato juice ) .......
from 7% inclusive to 15% exclusive asparagus sauerkraut ghorkins , cucumbers , olives , picholines and capers .................... groen peas , french beans , carrots and vegetable macodoines other otherwise (in casks , vats , eto , ) woighing (cross weight ): more than 10 kg .:
mushrooms tomatoes .. sauerkraut . ghorkins , cucumbers , picholinos and capors .. other 10 kg. and less

Rate of duty ad valorem
15%
dutiable as fruit juices (No.195 )
25% 20% 25% 20% 25% 25%
10% 20% 25% 15% 15 % 20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A725

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
191B 191C 192 194
195A

Description of Products
Preserved fruit , whole , in quarters or in pieces , without alcohol :
without sugar or syrup
in swoot liquid (fruits in syrup)
Fruit , fruit peol , plants or parts of plants preserved in sugar ( candied )
Jams, fruit jellios , marmalados , " compotos " , stows , " purbcs" and pulps , sweetened ......
Fruit, berry or vegetable juices , whether or not concentrated:
without sugar , put up:
in tins , bottles , flasks , jars and similar containers , of 1 liter and less otherwise :
not concentrated :
lemon and barborry juices grapes, tomato and orango juicos ..... apple and pear juices .... other fruit , berry or vegetable juices, whether or not salted .. concentrated :
grapes , tomato and orango juices apple and pear juices other .....

Rate of duty ad valorem
25% 35% 25% 30%
18%
10 % 18% 10% 15% 20% 10% 15%

A726

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
195B

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

sweetened, containing per liter : 150 and less of sugar, put up:

in tins , bottles , flasks , jars

and similar containers , of

1 liter and less .....

25%

otherwise ......

20%

more than 150 g . of sugar ( syrups ) , put-up:

in tins , bottles , flasks , jars and

similar containers , of 1 liter

and less ...

30%

otherwise

25%

Chapter 21

MISCELLANEOUS EDIBLE PREPARATIONS .

197

Roasted chicory and other roasted

substitutes of coffee , not containing

ooffee, in pieces , in grains or

ground

10%

200

Prepared mustard , put up:

in flasks , pots , glassos , tins and other

similar containers ......

.......

12%

otherwise (in casks , vats , etc. ) .....

10%

201

Preparations for soups and broths with a

basis of vegetable substances , without

meat extraots

8%

Ex 204

Yeasts , not put up for medical uses :

biological yeasts (from distillery ,

browery, etc. ) .....

50%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A727

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
206
208

Description of Products
Unsweetened powders for making creams, puddings, side-dish (ontremots ) , desserts , oto ,, without cocoa , whether or not flavoured , coloured or perfumed ...
Edible proparations not elsewhere specifiod or included:
compound extracts , not for modioal uses , unsweetened , without alcohol , for making beverages , appotisers , liqueurs, eto...
other

Rate of duty ad valorem
15%
20% 20%

Chapter 22

BEVERAGES ALCOHOLIC LIQUIDS AND VINEGARS

210 Natural mineral waters , artificial mineral

wators , aerated waters , not flavoured or

sweetened ....

10%

212 Beer

35%

Spirits:

220C

Whisky

30%

Liquors:

221A

Gin

40%

221B

Other .....

50%

224 Lemonades , flavoured aeratod waters and other

non-alcoholic beverages , not elsewhere

apocified or includod , sweetoned or not ..

20%

A728

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
227 228
229A 229B 229C 229D 229E 229F 229G 229H Ex 230

Description of Products
Chapter 23
RESIDUES AND WASTE FROM THE FOOD INDUSTRIES: PREPARED ANIMAL FODDER .
Beet pulp containing less than 10% of sugar and waste of sugar manufacturo
Brewing dregs , waste from distilling , residues from starch manufacturing and the like :
maize oil cake , residues of starch manufacturing ....
other
Oil-cake and other residuos from the extraction of vegetable oils , containing less than 8 % of oil:
dregs (grignons ) and "amurcas" of olivos .....................
maize germ oako
ground-nut oil- oako linseed oil- cake ....
copra and palm-kernel oil-cake
saya, oil- cake .......
castor, pulghora , colza , mustard , camelina , rape, charlock, fetid hellebore , mowra , hemp seed · oil-cake other .....
Residues of pressed apples , grapes and other fruits , other

Rate of duty ad valorem
5%
10% Free
Free 8% 10% 8% 8% 8% 8% 8%
Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A729

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff item No.

Description of Products

Ex 235A Ex 236

Chapter 24
TOBACCO.
Raw tobaoco, in leaves or stalks , entered for monopoly account .....
Manufactured tobacco , entored for monopoly account:
cigarettos ....

Rate of duty ad valorem
Free Free

Chapter 25
SALT SULPHUR EARTHS AND MINERALS; PLASTERS : LINES AND CEMENTS.

Ex 240A
240B 244 245 246 249 261

Sulphur: ores :

iron pyritos , not roasted

other, in rocks .... unpurified sulphur , so called

" raw" .

Natural nitrates other than for agricultural

uses ......

...

Natural calcium phosphates (tricalcio phosphates ), in rocks , crushed or pulverised

Natural arsenic sulphides ( orpiment , realgar) , in lumps or pulverisod .....
Natural barium carbonate , in rocks , crushed or pulverised .....
Natural sodium borate ( crudo borax ) .....

Free Free Free See No.573D Free
2% Froo Free

A730

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continuod)

French Tariff Item No

Description of Products

Natural salts of magnesium , in rocks , orushed or pulverised:

255A

"giobertite" (natural magnesium

carbonate) ........

255B

other .....

256 Calcined magnesia , pure or pharmaceutica' magnesia exoluded .......

261 Fossil siliceous flour (farinos siliceuses
fossiles ) , kieselguhr , moler's earths or silica, " diatomites" , " cellites " , tripoli and various light earths of apparent density lower or equal to 1 , crude , crushed or sioved

262 Talo and natural steatite: crude

orushed or pulverised 263 Asbestos , in rocks , fibres , or pulverised .. 264 Mion:

in blocks or irrogular lumps , chippod in irregular flakos ( splittings ) , waste ....
pulverised ....

Clay :

268A

kaolin :

in lumps

pulverised or atomised

268B

kaolin-bearing earths and sands ......

26 8C

refractory and sand stone earths (terres d

gròs ) including chamotte earths , crudo,

washed or pulvorised .....

Rate of duty ad valorem
Froe Free Free
10% Free
4% Froe
Froe 5%
Froe 5%
Froo Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A731

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
26 8D 268E 26 8F 270
272 275 Ex 276
Ex 278A

Description of Products
natural " bentonites "
natural bleaching earths , " foulon's" earth, fuller's earth other
Mortar, cement , pisé (pudded clay ) , refractory grout (coulis ) and mastio , in blocks , granulated , powder , paste or coating Marl .....
Chalk , crudo , washed , crushed or pulverised . Dolomite :
crude , in rocks , crushed or pulverised ... fritted , in rocks , crushed or bolted .... Carving or building stones , in blocks or sawn slabs , rough or squared with a pointed chisel or wire (à la pointe ou au fil ) : limestone and alabaster :
marble, travertine and limestone of an apparent density higher or equal to 2,4:
"6caussines " :
in blocks , rough or squarod .... sawn, having a thickness of:
more than 16 cm. ..... 4 cm, exclusivo to 16 cm. inclusive ..... 4 cm. and less
other (marble , travertine , etc. ) , in blocks , rough or squared ..........

Rate of duty ad valorem
Free Free Free
Free Free Froe
Free 10%
Free
Free 8% 10% 15% but not more than 75 fros per kg .; gross weight .

A732

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
278B
279A 279B 281A 281B 282A 282B

Doscription of Products
alabaster .....
other limestone , in blocks , rough or squared or sawn ....
granite, porphyry , syenite , lava , basalt, sandstone and similar hard stones :
in blocks , rough or squared ... sawn, having a thicknoss of:
moro than 20 cm. 20 cm. and less ....
Crushed or broken stones , pebbles and cobble stones :
used as road-motal and for ballast , concrete and the like , including tar-macadam ..... " castine" and limostone for making lime Natural and artificial sand not elsewhore specified or included :
ground silica , calcined or not ...... othor sands
Colouring earths , orude or simply washed or pulverised :
crudo
washed or pulverised: oohres and natural iron oxides , containing in oxide (Fo203) : less than 70%, including Italy, Sienne and Umbor- earths ....
70% and more:

Rate of duty ad valorem
Free 15 %
Froe 10 % 12 %
3% 6%
Fr.o Free
Free
Froo

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A733

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products
micaooous iron oxides ..... other

Cassel , Cologne earths , serpentine and other
285 Plaster .....

Lime, pure lime excluded , crude, crushed or pulverised :

287A

fat limo and assimilated

287B

hydraulic limo ...

288 Binder and hydraulic coment , not pulverised (clinker) or pulvorised

Rate of duty ad valorem
Free Dutiable as artificial iron oxides (No.404)
Free Free
6% 6%
10%

Chapter 26

ORES SLAG AND ASH.

293 Ores of aluminium (bauxite)

Free

294 Ores of copper , including chalcopyrites ....

Free

Ex 295 Oros of load, other , argentiferous or not ..

Free

299 Ores of nickel ....

Free

300 Ores of cobalt

Free

302 Oros of molybdenum, tungsten , vanadium,

tantalum, titanium, zirconium and glucinium.

Free

95347 0-49- pt. 5- 47

A734

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI & FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
311 312 313
318A 318B
319A 319B 320 321
322A 322B 322C

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

Chapter 27
MINERAL FUEL: BITUMINOUS SUBSTANCES AND MINERAL OILS: PRODUCTS OF THEIR DISTILLATION : MINERAL
WAXES: ELECTRIC POWER
Coal , crude ( coal and anthracite) ...... Coal coke and semi coal coke (metallurgic or obtained in gas-works) ........
Agglomerates of coal (in briquettes , balls , etc. ) Mineral tar:
Coal tar .............
Other (lignite tar, peat tar, eto.)
Oil distilled from ooal:
light oils , orude , of which 90% and more of the volume distilled before 200°C
other
Basic products derived from coal tar
Benzol, toluol , xylol, solvent naphtha and the like , benzine of the " Regio " type , sulphuretted tops (têtes sulfurées ) , tailings , distilling under 200°C . with a residuo lower than 10% .....
Benzonic carbides: benzene
toluene
xylene (isomer mixtures)

Free Free Free
Free Free
Free Free 15%
15%
20% 20% 20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A735

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
323A
323B 324 325 326 328 329
332A
332B 333

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

Phenol products :
phenol , cresol , xylenol , crude , containing 40% and less of one of cresol or xylenol isomers ;
containing from 20% inclusive to 40% inclusive of pure phenol , the remainder in cresol and xylenol
containing less than 20% or more then 40% of pure phenol the remainder in cresol and xylenol
cresol and xylenol , crude and pure , containing more than 40 %of one of cresol or xylenol isomers
Naphthalene Anthracene
Coal tar pitch
Disinfectants with a base of phenolic products (cresyl , etc. ) ......
Carbolineum
Natural petroleum , crude , and assimilated products :
natural petroleum , crude : on entry into controlled factories ....
other
schist oils and other
Petroleum gas (commercial propane and butane) :
on importation on removal from controlled factories .....

Free
10%
15% 10% 10% Free 19% 14%
Free 18%
Duty of natural p(Neot.ro3l3e2uAm) crude
3% Free

A736

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Gasoline : on importation ..... an removal from controlled factories

335A Gas-oils:

on importation on removal from controlled factories .....

Petroleum heavy oils and assimilated products , lubricants with a base of petroleum products :

336B

spindle and lubricating fuel oil:

on importation on removal from controlled factories ..

336C

other (lubricating oils and lubricants )

containing petroleum products , or assimilated

in any proportions :

on importation ......

on removal from controlled factories ..

338 Paraffin:

on importation on removal from controlled factories .....

340A Petroleum bituminous products (road- oils , petroleum bitumen, hard-pitch, soft pitch, emulsions , cut-backs )and the like:

on importation on removal from controlled refineries

Rate of duty ad valorem
18% Free
10% Free
18% Free
1%8 Free
10% Free
3% Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A737

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
341
342

Description of Products
Petroleum coke and assimilated products : on importation ..... on removal from controlled factories
Ozokerite, crude or refined

Rate of duty ad valorem
3% Free 10%

Chapter 28

INORGANIC CHELICAL PRODUCTS

346 B Ex 346D Ex 348

Halogenous : chlorine ...... iodine, crude ......
Sulphur, refined (orushed, sublimated and other)

349 Selenium and tellurium:

crude selenium at 99.75 p . 100 and less ..

other

353 Antimony

Carbon :

354B

lamp black :

carbon black and acetylene black ......

other

354C

animal black

354E

activated carbons

360 Radio-active metals (radium , mesothorium, radiothorium, actinium, polonium , etc.) .....

15% 30% 10%
10% 25%
2%
Free 10% 13% 25% 5%

A738

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
367A
369D 372 374
378A 378B 379 387A
390A 390B 392 399 4010
Ex 404

Description of Products
Hydrochloric acid: commercial ..... pure or chemically pure
Sulphide of carbon Sulphuric acid Nitric acid :
Commercial
chemically pure Arsenic acids :
arsenious anhydride (arsenic trioxide , arsenious oxide) ................. arsenic anhydride and arsenic acid
Oxide of antimony Ammonia gas (anhydrous ) Soda :
sodium hydroxide soda lyes , residues from the manufacture of cellulose pulp Potash (potassium hydroxide) ..... Zinc oxide ( zine white , zinc grey ) .... Alumina , fused (artificial corundum , alundum) , other than synthetic stones , crude , crushed or in grains ....... Artificial iron oxides (containing 70 p. 100 and more in F020 )

Rate of duty ad valorem
18% 12% 12% 12%
15% 30%
10% 10% 6% 12%
20% 15% 20% 20%
10, 15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT . 30, 1947

A739

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

405 Nickel oxides

406 Cobalt oxides and hydroxides 409 Vanadium pentoxide (vanadio anhydride) 411 Uranium oxide ...

413 Copper oxides

Lead oxides :

415A

litharge .....

415B

minium and orange minium

415C

lead dioxide

418 Ex 419

Fluosilicates (of sodium, barium and other) . Chlorides :

of ammonium, other than for agricultural

purposes

........

of calcium

of barium

Ex 420 Ex 429

Oxychloride of copper Sulphide of sodium ......

Ex 432 Ex 433

Lignosulphites (bisulphitic lyes , residues from the manufacture of cellulose pulp) .........
Sulphates : of ammonium, other than for agricultural purposes .... of sodium .... of iron: ferrous sulphate ....... of nickel , double sulphate of nickel and ammonium of oopper

Rate of duty ad valorem
5% 30% 15%
5% 10%
12% 12% 12% 20%
12%
10% 10% 18%
15%
12% 15% 12% 10% 8%

A740

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
435
436
Ex 438

Description of Products
Persulphates ( of ammonium, sodium , potassium and other) ....... Simple or compound salts of the acids of selenium or tellurium Nitrates :

Ex 440 Ex 442

of armonium, sodium, potassium, calcium , other than for agricultural purposes .... of nickel of cobalt
Phosphates : of ammonium other than for agricultural purposes ................... of calcium: commercial dioaloio .....
Arsenates :

of calcium of lead

Ex 444

Carbonates : of ammonium .......

of magnesium , precipitated ... of nickel ..... of cobalt of copper (blue ashes) of lead: hydrocarbonate (white lead) ... of bismuth

Rate of duty ad valorem
20% 25%
12% 15% 20%
12% 16%
15% 20%
12% 10% 25% 25% 10% 15% 10%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT . 30, 1947

A741

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Ex 446A Ex 446B Ex 446C Ex 446 D Ex 448

Cyanides , simple or compound : oyanide of potassium and of sodium sulphocyanide of copper ...... ferrocyanide of potassium (yellow prussiate) ferricyanide of potassium (red prussiate) .
Silicates of sodium

Ex 449 Borate of sodium , pure:

anhydrous ..... hydrated ... Salts of the acids of metallic oxides :

Ex 451C Ex 451D

chromate of lead (yellow and orange of chromium) ... ............
bichromates :

of sodium

Ex 4511

of potassium ...... vanadates (ammonium and other ) .....

455A Ex 461

Salts and compounds of radium .....
Carbide of silioon ( carborundum) orude, orushed or in grains

Rate of duty ad valorem
17% 25% 25% 25% 22%
Free 7%
20%
20% 16% 15% Free 10%

Ex 470A

Chapter 29
ORGANIC CHEMICAL PRODUCTS
Aromatic hydrocarbons : mononuclear : benzene .. toluene ........... xylenes : isomer mixtures

See No.322A See No.322B See No.322C

A742

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No. Ex 470B Ex 471A
Ex 4718
Ex 472B Ex 475B Ex 482A
Ex 483A

Description of Products

Aromatic hydrocarbons : (contd . ) polynuclear : anthracene ....

Halogenated derivatives of saturated acyclic carbides :

monohalogenated derivativos : chlorides

bromides :

bromomethane (bromide of methyl ) , bromoethane (bromide of ethyl) ....
other

polyhalogenated derivativos :

polychloridos polybromides :

tribromomethano (bromoform) ...

dibromoothane (dibromide of ethylene)

Polyhalogonatod derivatives of non saturated

acyclic carbides , other ......

.....

Halogenated derivatives of polynuclear aromatic carbides : dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (D.D.T. ) ....
Saturated acyclic monoalcohols , and their halogenated , sulphonated, nitrated derivatives :

propylic and isopropylic alcohols

butylic and isobutylic alcohols .......

Aoyolio polyalcohols and their halogonated , sulphonated, nitrated dorivativos : diols
and their derivativos

Rate of duty ad valorom
See No. 325
20%
28% 20% 20% 20% 25% 20% 20%
30% 23% 30%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A743

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No. Ex 484
Ex 485
Ex 493A 493B
Ex 497A
Ex 504A 504B 504C
Ex 505

Description of Products
Cyclanic, oyclonic and cycloterpenie alcohols , and their halogenated , sulphonated, nitrated-derivatives : menthol
Aromatic alcohols and their halogenated, sulphonated , nitrated- derivatives : benzylic alcohol , cinnamic alcohol .......
Acyclic ether-oxides and their halogenated , sulphonated , nitrated- derivatives :
ether-oxides and their derivatives , other (methyl, isopropyl, butyl , etc. , oxides ) .....
ether-oxides - acyclic alcohols and derivatives ...
Aoyolic aldehydes , saturated: methanal (formie aldehyde, formaldehyde , formol ), trioxymethylene (paraformaldehyde )
Acyclic kotones and their halogenated , sulphonated, nitrated-dorivatives , their salts and esters :
monoketones: methylethylketone
polyketones ......
alcohol-ketones and aldehydo-ketones (alcohol diaketone , etc. ) ..........
Cyclanie, cyclonic and cycloterpenic ketones :
oyolohexanone and mothycyclohexanone ..
camphor :
natural, crude
other (natural, refined, and synthotical)

Rate of duty ad valorem
20% 20%
25% 30% 25%
15% 15% 20% 20% 18% 25%

A744

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
Ex 508B
508K Ex 509C Ex 511D
Ex 520 Ex 541
Ex 550

Description of Products
Acycli : monoacids , saturated , their anhydrides and their chlorides , their halogenated, sulphonated , nitratedderivatives , their salts and esters:
esters of acetic acid :
methyl acetate .....
ethyl acetate ......
propyl, isopropyl acetates
butyl, isobutyl acetates
Stearic acid, its salts and estors . Oleic acid
Citric acid, its salts and esters: oitric acid .....
citrate of calcium , crude (lime citrate) Phosphorio esters and their salts (tributylphosphate , triphenylphosphate, trioresylphosphate and trixylonylphosphate, pure or mixed together Imides and iminos:
sulphobenzoic imide (saccharine ) .....
guanidines
Other heterocyclic compounds , their halogonatod, sulphonated , nitratedderivatives , their salts and estors : mercaptobonzothiazole and derivates of morcaptobenzothiazole ....

Rate of duty ad valorem
20% 25% 25% 22% 20% 20% 20% Free
15% 12% 25%
26%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A745

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Ex 551
556A 556B 556C Ex 558 Ex 561
Ex 566

Organo-mineral compounds , containing sulphur , other than heterocyclic compounds :
xanthates (ethylxanthates , amyxanthates, etc. ) not elsewhere specified or included ......
thiocarbamates ....

alkyl, arylalkyl derivativos and othor
derivativos substituted from sulphuratod thiourames ......

Vitamins , their salts and estors:

"liposoluble" vitamins , thoir salts and

esters ......

.....

hydrosoluble vitamins , their salts and esters

other

Diastasos: popsin and rennets .......

Other alkaloids , thoir others and their estors , and their salts :

caffeine and its salts

ometine and its salts .....

strychnine and its salts

theobromine and its salts

Other organic compounds , not olsewhere specified or included : penicillin and
similar substancos , and their salts ......

Rate of duty ad valorem
15% 25% 25%
16% 15% 15% 20 %
13% 13% 15% 15%
15 %

A746

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
569A 569B 569C Ex 569D
570A

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

Chapter 30
PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS .
Medicinal preparations used in human or voterinary medicine , not put-up for retail sale:
medicinal plant mixtures , entered with the previous authorization of the "Service Central de la Pharmacie
oils , flours , wines and othor preparations to which their preparation or composition gives therapeutic properties , ontored with the provious authorization of the " Service Central de la Pharmacie" .....
salts of natural or artificial mineral waters, entored with tho provious authorization of the " Sorvice Contral de la Pharmacio"
other :
medicamonts mentioned in the French Codex ........
medioamonts not mentioned in the French Codex, entored with the previous authorization of the " Service Central de la Pharmacio"
Medicaments used for human or veterinary medicine, put-up for retail salo :
medicaments mentioned in the French Codox; prescription-made medicaments .........

18%
18% 18% 18% 10% 10% of solling price to the publie

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A747

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued )

French Tariff Iton No
Ex 570B

Doscription of Products
other :
medicaments " sous cachets " in accordance with French internal logislation ......
patent medicines in accordance with French internal legislation

Ratio of duty ad valorem
10% of selling price to the public
10% of selling price to the public

572B 572C
573A 573B 573C 573D 573E 573F 573G 573H 5731 573J

Chapter 31 FERTILIZERS Natural fertilizers of animal or vegetable origin, in bulk or in packages weighing oach more than 25 kg. gross : dissolved organic fertilizers ...... other
Nitrogenous chemical fertilizers , in bulk or put in packages weighing each more than 25 kg. gross :
ammonium chloride
ammonium sulphato ..... sulphonitrate of ammonium and ammonitrates sodium nitrato , natural or synthetic ...... calcium nitrate .....
calcium and magnesium nitrate .... ammonium nitrate
calcium cyanamido uroa other

Free Free
Froo Free Free Free Freo Freo Free Free Froe Free

A748

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE

·

FRANCE

PART I ( Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
574A 574C 574D 574E Ex 574G 574H 576
577

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

Phosphated chemical fortilizors , in bulk or put in packages weighing each moro than 25 kg. gross:

phosphated chalks

Froe

dephosphorisation slags

Froo

basiphosphatos (thormophosphates)

Free

dioaloic phosphatos ....

Free

suporphosphates , other

7%

armonium phosphates .....

7%

Compound fertilizers made of a mixing , with or

without combination , of at loast two of the

above chomioal fertilizers , added or not

with products of animal or vegetable origin ,

in bulk or put in packagos weighing oach

more than 25 kg, gros8 ........

7%

Fertilizors not alsowhoro specified or

included, in bulk or put in packages

weighing each more than 25 kg. gross .....

7%

Chapter 32

PRODUCTS OF THE DISTILLATION OF WOOD, TURPENTINE AND RESINS.

579D Mothy lones

20%

Chapter 33

TANNING AND COLOURING EXTRACTS; COLOURING MATERIALS

584B Mimosa extracts ...

15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A749

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continuod)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

590A 590D 590F 590G 590H
Ex 591C
Fx 593
Ex 594

Minoral colouring materials :
mineral blacks , not elsewhere specified or included , in lumps , crushed or pulverised
lithopone
ultramarinos
forrooyanic colours (Prussian blue)
schweinfurt green (aceto-arsenite of copper)
Crganic colouring materials ( derived from coal-tar and other) , containing 50 and less of water:
azoic colouring matters :
monoazoic , dorivod from safranine and insoluble pigmentary monoazoic colourings for lakes
polyazoic , black ....
Artificial lakes :
with a basis of animal or vegetable colourings , not containing carmine . ................
with a basis of organic colouring matters , containing less than 3 p. 100 of organio colourings or less than 8 p. 100 of organic pigments
Ground pigments (with oil, varnishes , benzine, otc. ) , other

10% 15% 16% 25% 10%
25% 25%
15%
15% Duty of paints otherwise putup (No.599 B) .

95347 0-49- pt. 5 48

A750

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Doscription of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

Chapter 34

DYES VARNISHES , PAINTS , COLOURS : MASTICS : INKS PENCILS : PRODUCTS OF CERAMIC CHEMISTRY

Ex 595A

Dyos, prepared ; household dyes for fabrics ,
leather, etc., liquid in containers with a oapacity of 0.25 and less :

without alcohol

10%

with alcohol

15%

Varnishes , put-up:

596A

in containers with a capacity of 1 litor

and loss , with or without alcohol ......

24%

Ex 596 B

otherwise , without organic colouring or

containing less than 3 p.100 of organic

colouring, with or without alcohol

24%

597 Extracts in paste or dry , coloured or not,

including extracts of cellulose acotato , for

the proparation of varnishes and unfit for

diroot use .....

24%

Paints , put-up :

599A

in containers , with a capcoity of 5 liters

and less :

24%

Ex 599B

otherwise , without colouring or organic

pigment , or containing loss than 3 p.100

of organic colourings or 8 p.100 of

organic pigmonts .....

24%

600 Artists ' colours and colours for decoration ,

teaching or recreation, in tablots , pastilles , saucors, tubes , small bottles , cups , etc. , sortod or not in boxes , with or without brushes ,

prints , saucers or other accessories , also boxes

ontored not fitted

35%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A751

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Iton No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

EX 604 Printing inks :

black, for newspaper printing , without

drying oils ......

25 %

othor, without organic colouring or

pigment , or containing less than 3 p.100

of organic colourings or less than 8 p.100

of organic pigments ......

15%

608 Ribbons , inked or imprognatod , for type-

writing and similar machines ; inking pads ..

15%

609D Loads for pencils ; leads for writing or drawing on any kind of material ; litho-

graphic leads ; leadsI containing greasy matters, so- called chalk" and sanguines ;

pastels and other similar articles ......

20%

610 Composite pencils ( in casing) , with a diameter ( or inscribed in a circle with a diameter) of:

more than 6.5 mm :

with a filling of graphite or slate :

with a deal casing , not tintod

or internally treated , varnishod

or not

30%

other .....

25%

with coloured filling or filling with

a baso of lamp black

25%

with copying filling or filling with

a base of groase , wax, cocoa butter

or similar products ....

30%

less than 6.5 mm :

without tip or fitting

25%

with tip or fitting of any substances ,

including varnishod tips ..........

30%

A752

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE KI FRANCE

PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No. Ex 611
Ex 612

Description of Products
Colours, pigments and opaque agents for ceramic, enamelling, glass-making, containing salts and (or) cobalt oxide.. Vitrifiable compounds ( enamels) , containing salts and ( or) cobalt oxide

Rate of duty ad valorem
175 17%

Ex 616
618 622

Chapter 35
ESSENTIAL OILS AND ESSENCES ; PERFUMERY ARTICLES
Essential oils, not " deterpened" , solid or liquid :
essences of: mint, jasmine, rose, patchouli, vetyer, pine, pine needles, cajeput, niaouli , eucalyptus , Chinese anise tree, anise, fennel, lomon, citron, " limette" , china range, bitter orange (seville orange) , bergamot, mandarin, grape fruit, citronella, lemon-grass, vervain, aspic, lavender, " lavandin" , origanum, thyme, rosemary, wild thyme, marjoram, rue, sage, tulip wood, shiu, linaloe, mace, nutmegs, caraway, coriander, juniper, cumin, gaiacum, mustard, myrtle, " petit grain" , neroli, orange flowers, cloves, cinnamon, bay ..........
other essences ( except essences of cananga, ylang-ylang, camphor, sassafras, "Bourbon" geranium, rose geranium, palmarosa)
Terpenless essences :
of lemon, citron, " limette" , china orange, bitter orange ( seville orange), bergamot, mandarin, grape fruit .................
other
Compounds with a base of natural or artificial perfumes, intended for perfumery or alimentation (mixtures of chemical produces, and ( or) natural products, not utilizable in their present condition)

Free 5%
15% 12%
15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A753

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item o
623
624 625 626
627

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

Perfumes (extracts , lotions , toilet waters , etc. ):

liquid:

non-alcoholio ......

10%

alcoholic, put-up in containers , with a capacity of:

moro than 122210

10%

14 1. and less

15%

solid

10%

Dental products (waters, elixirs, powders, pastes, soaps ) :

non-alcoholic

10%

alcoholic

15%

Hair products ( dyes , cosmotics , fixers, brilliantines, liquids for permanent wave, shampoos , eto . ):

non-alcoholic .....

10%

alcoholic .......

15%

Products for the oare of the skin and for
making up ( creams , beauty milks, shaving oroams not foaming, superfluous hair removers , deodorising products , perfumod pomades and vaselines , lips rouge , make-up, toilet powders , perfumed tale powdors , nail varnishes , etc. ) :

non-alcoholio ......

10%

alcoholic ......

15%

Other perfumery products (perfumos for

burning, sachets of porfumos , Armenia papors,

oto.)

10%

A754

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

Fronoh Tariff Itom No.
628C 629A
Ex 638

Description of Products
Chapter 36
DERIVATIVES OF NATURAL OR SYNTHETIC FATTY SUBSTANCES: SOAPS : ARTIFICIAL WAXES: CANDLES: PREPARATIONS FOR WASHING CLOTHES .
Derivativos of fatty substances insoluble in wator: fatty alcohols in co and above .....
Derivatives of fatty substanoos soluble in water, except soaps : activo anion products :
sulphonated dorivativos other .....
Preparations for washing alothos , put-up, without organic substancos

Rate of duty ad valorem
20%
20% 20% 15%

Chaptor 37

ALBUMINOID MATERIALS AND SUNDRY GLUES .

639

Casein and caseinates not olsowhore specified

or included .....

640

Albumins ( of ogg , blood , etc. ) :

unfit for odible purposes and donaturated othor .....

642

Golatins in powdor , granules , fragmonts or

flakes, in loavos not cut or out square or

rectangular , unworkod , coloured , gofforod,

stainod, iridos cont , ivory- liko ,

metallisod , waterod , varnished , glazed .....

645

Dextrins, including roastod starch and

focula .....

10% Froo
20%
20% 35%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30 , 1947

A755

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

646A 646C 647B
Ex 648 Ex 650

Glues of animal origin in packages with a net content of more than 1 kg.:

fish glues .....

.....

15%

other (glues made of bones , skins , sinews,

tendons , etc.)

20 %

Glues of vegetable origin in packagos with a

not content of more than 1 kg .: gluos with a

base of any laceous substances and derivativos

and other glues of vegetablo origin (of

lichin, of fucus , etc. , excluding glues with

a base of vegotablo gums)

25 %

Gluos with a base of materials only solublo in organic solvents , in packagos with a not content of more than 1 kg.: uroa gluos , cellulose glues , vinyl gluos .....

Duty of varnishos
otherwise putup ( No.596 B)

Glues, put-up for salo, in packagos containing each 1 kg . not or loss :

fish glues

15%

glues of othor animal substanoos ...... uroa glues , vinyl glues , collulose glues ..

20%
Duty of varnishes putup in containors of 1 1. capacity or loss (No.596 A)

glues with silicate basis .......

10 %

Ex 655A

Chapter 38
GUNPOWDER: EXPLOSIVES: FIREWORKS: MATCHES: FERRO- CERIUM: INFLAMMABLE
MATERIALS : FIRE- EXTINGUISHERS .
Primers and fulminating caps , for arms :

A756

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Itom No.
Ex 660

Dosoription of Products
of war, entered on account of the Monopoly .......... for sporting and for target-shooting Matches , entered on account of the Monopoly

Rate of duty ad valorem
Free 10% 5%

Chapter 39

SENSITIZED SURFACES: FIMS: PRODUCTS FOR PHOTOGRAPHY AND CINEMATOGRAPHY

664A Glass plates, sensitised , not exposed .....

15%

665 Films, unperforated , sensitised , not exposod:

sensitized on one side only

15%

sensitized on both sidos ......

15%

666 Films , perforated , sensitized , not exposed:

nogative .....

20%

positivo, reversing, duplicating .....

20%

667 Sensitizod papers and cards (in sheets , rollers , disos , eto . ) :

for monochrome pictures :

with silver or platinum salts , with

iron salts ......

25%

azioo, pigmentary (with carbon, etc. )

15%

other .........

25%

for polychrome pioturos

25%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A757

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
Ex 666

Description of Products
Sensitised surfaces , exposed , not developed : perforated films ..

670 Ginematograph films , silent (reels including pictures only) exposed and developed : negative films : news films: monochrome. polychrome...... other, with a width of: less than 10 .: monochrome ...
polychrome ..... 10 mm. inclusive to 35 mm . exclusive :
monochrome... polychrome ..... 35 mm. (standard) and more: monochrome ... polychrome.. positive films : news films : monochrome .. polychrome..... other, with a width of: less than 10 m .: monochrome. polychrome ..

Rate of Duty ad valorum 2000 fr . per kg. schi gross weight
3 fr. the metre 5 fr. the metro
6 fr. the metro 9 fr. the metre
15 fr. the metre 20 fr. the metre
20 fr. the metre 25 fr. the metre
1 fr. the metro 2 fr. the metre
1.20 fr. tho metre 3 fr. the metre

A758

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products 10 mm . inclusive to 35 mm. exclusive :

Rate of Duty ad valorum

monochrome.

3 fr. the metre

polychrome .....

5 fr. the metre

35 mm. (standard ) and more :

monochrome ...

4 fr. the metre

polychrome ............

5 fr. the metre

Cinematograph films, sound-track, exposed and developed :

671A

reels including only sound recording, negative

or positive :

news films .

1 fr. the metre

other with a width of:

less than 10mm ..

2 fr. the metre

10 m . inclusive to 35 m. exclusive 3 fr. the metre

35. (standard) and more.....

671B

reels including at the same time pictures

and sound :

4 fr. the metre

negative films:

news films :

monochrome .

3 fr. the metre

polychrome..... other, with a width of:
less than 10 mm.

5 fr. the metre

monochrome ....

6 fr. the metre

polychrome .... 10 m. inclusive to 35 mm . exclusive :

9 fr. the metre

monochrome... polychrome ..

15 fr. the metre 20 fr. the metre

! 61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A759

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
672 673 674

Description of Products
35 mm . (standard) and more: monochrome .. polychrome ...
positive films : news films : monochrome . polychrome .... other, with a width of: less than 10 mm: monochrome .. polychrome ... 10 mm. inclusive to 35 mm . exclusive : monochrome ... polychrome ..... 35 mm. (standard) and more monochrome . polychrome ....
Chemical products put up for photographic use (developers , fixers , toners , intensifiers , etc)

Rate of Duty ad valorum
20 fr. the metre 25 fr. the metre
1 fr. the metre 2 fr. the metre
1.20 fr . the metre 3 fr. the metre
3 fr. the metre 5 fr . the metre
4 fr. the metre 5 fr. the metre 20%

Chapter 40
ABRASIVE WARES PARTS AND ARTICLES OF ARTIFICIAL CARBON SOLDERING STICKS AND COMPOUNDS

Abrasives , natural or artificial , applied on

fabrics . paper , cardboard, fibre , wood and other

materials , cut up or not

10%

Whetstones :

natural stones , roughed-out or finished ;

earthenware stones ....................

8%

abrasive stones , compressed ....

12%

A760

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
675A
675B ex 675C
677A 677B 677C 677D 677E

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valors

grindstones and similar articles , with or without hoops or other parts of other materials :
millstones:

of stone or other natural mineral roughed-

out or finished .........

5%

of compressed materials , with or without

parts of stone ....

12%

fiber-grinding wheels ......

12%

grindstones , edge-setting wheels , polishing wheels , adjusting wheels , sawing wheels , etc. of compressed abrasives , without or without parts of natural stone or earthenware :

of natural abrasives , weighing each :

more than 20 g.....

12%

20 g and less ...

15%

of artificial abrasives , weighing each :

more than 20 g.

15%

20 g. and less .....

18%

Parts and articles of compressed or baked carbon, so called " artificial carbon" , or of artificial graphite :

carbons for electric arcs..

15%

electrodes for electric furnaces and electrolysis ; carbons for electric batteries . 158

carbons in slabs or bars for brushes , of

metallographitic and other compositions .....

5%

brusnes for electric machines and apparatus,

of metallographic and other compositions ,

with or without connections ...

10%

carbons for telephones and microphones

(in discs , pastilles , cups , etc) ; carbons

for filters , carbons for lightning

protectors, fittings , joints and other

parts ....

10%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A761

-

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I ( Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
682
683A ex 683B
685A
687

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorum

Chapter 41
MISCELLANEOUS PRODUCTS OF CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES . NOT ELSEWHERE SPECIFIED OR INCLUDED

Activated products not elsewhere specified or

included (activated fossil silica , activated

clay, artificial beutonite, etc . ) ......

20%

Disinfecting , insecticidal , anti-cryptogamic ,
fungicidal , grass destroying , anti -parasitic and like preparations , not elsewhere specified or included , put up:

in containers of one 1 kg net capacity and

less ....

15%

otherwise :

arsenical products , including cupro-

arsenical specialities ......

15%

cupric products ....

10%

sulphuretted products , products with a

base of vegetable or mineral oils and their

derivatives , vegetable insecticides .......

15%

other poisoned baits ......

15%

Preserving products (preparations for preserving leather, wood , painted surfaces , metal articles , glass , etc. , liquid , in paste , or solid ) :

solutions or emulsions , the dry extract of which contains 50 per cent and more of wax (animal , vegetable , mineral or artificial ) , of ozokerite , of paraffin, pure or mixed together (waxes , encaustics , creams , etc. ) ...... 15%

Valcanisation accelerators , not elsewhere

specified a included ....

30%

Chapter 42
DERIVATIVES OF CELLULOSE: PLASTIC MATERIALS AND ARTIFICIAL RESINS : ARTICLES NOT ELSEWHERE SPECIFIED OR INCLUDED, OF THESE MATERIALS

A762

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
691
Ex 694A 694B
Ex 694C 697

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorum

Cellulose reclaimed from viscose (xanthate of cellulose) , neither fashioned nor printed, put up:
in sheets not cut or cut square or rectangular, or in rolls, with a surface worked or treated or not with a width of:
more than 1 om
1am, and less
waste and remains of worn out articles or otherwise .......
Plastic materials made from ocllulose esters :
with a base of celluloso acctates (diacetate and triacetate) : in slabs and sheets with a worked or treated surface (polished, matted, coloured , etc. ) ; tubes, sticks and rods rectified or otherwise worked

25% Duty on strips ("lames") of artificial fibers (No. 932) 25%
20%

with a base of nitrocellulose ( celluloid) ,

in blocks , masses , granules , slabs and

sheets with a worked or unworked surface ;

tubes and rods , worked or not ; waste and

fragments of manufactures

20

with a base of other cellulose esters

(proprionate etc. ) or composite esters (acetobutyrate, etc. ) slabs and sheets with a worked or treated surface ( polished,

matted, coloured, etc. ) ; tubes, sticks and

rods, rectified or otherwise worked

20%

Plastic materials made from albuminoid materials

(hardened casein, etc. ) , in blocks, masses ; slabs and sheets with a surface worked or

treated or not ; tubes, sticks and rods , worked

or not; waste and fragments of manufactures

15%

Products obtained from the condensation of phenols, amines or amides with aldehydes :

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT . 30, 1947

A763

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

ex 699A

phenoplasts obtained from the condensation of phenols or their homologues with aldehydes (phenol- , cresol - , xylenol formaldehyde , phenol -furfurol, etc. ) :
unaltered, not polymerised. ................
altered......

ex 699B

aminoplasts obtained from the condensation of amines or amides with aldehydes (aniline , urea-, thiourea -, melamine ·
formaldehyde , eto. ) , not polymerised............

Thermoplastic products of polymerisation derived from ethylene and its homologues (vinylic , acrylic , methacrylic products) , in solid mass, lumps , powders , granules , mixed or not with loadings or with colouring materials , in liquid form , including emulsions and solutions ; waste and fragments of manufactures , slabs and sheets with a surface worked or treated or not - surface , tubes , sticks and rods, rectified or otherwise worked:

700A

polyvinyl acetate.......

700B

polyvinyle chloride.........

700C

polyvinylidene chloride......

700D

other polyvinyl esters (chloracetate, etc) ;

vinylic copolymers (acetate-chloride,

maleate-acetate eto. )........

700E

copolymers of vinylic esters and of acrylic

or methacrylic acid.........

700F

polyvinylic ethers and ketones...

700G

Chemical derivatives of polyvinyl acetate,

polyvinyl alcohols and acetals (formal ,

acetal, butyral , combined acetals , etc. )....

700H

acrylic and methacrylic derivatives .......

7001

polyvinyl carbides (polystyrol , etc. )

700J

polyethylenes................

700K

other (polyvinyl amines and imines ,

polyvinyl - carbazol , etc . ) .......

Rate of Duty ad valorem
15% 15%
15%
35% 35% 35% 35% 35% 35% 35% 35% 35% 35% 35%

A764

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
703
705 706 707
708 ex 709

Description of Products
Natural resins , modified by fusion (melted gums) or combined with polyalcohols (ester gums)..
Moulded objects of thermoplastic materials...
Moulded objects that can be sintered by heat.
Cellulose reclaimed from viscose (cellulose xanthate) fashioned (bags , tubes , etc. ) cut otherwise than in square or rectangular form or (and) printed:
with an unworked or untreated surface.....
with a worked or treated surface (matted, coloured, silky, varnished, goffered, waterproofed, etc . ) ...
Articles of plastic materials derived from albuminoids (hardened casein, etc ) ......................
Non-moulded articles of other plastic materials (with a base of cellulose esters and ethers, products of condensation and polymerisation , etc. ) :
ngt stratified:
packings (bags , capsules , stoppers , cases, boxes, etc. ) , printed or not.....
other articles (excluding so-called "American linen" with or without fabric)
stratified ....

**

*

***

Rate of Duty ad valoru
30% 30%
25% 28% 20%
25% 25% 25%

Chapter 43

RUBBER AND ARTICLES MADE OF RUBBER

Natural rubber and similar gums :

710A

rubber, raw .

710B

balata......

710C

gutta-percha .....

710D

other .....

Free Free Free Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A765

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
7114 712 713 714
715B 715D
716A 7168 ex 717
718 719 720
721A 721B 721C 721D

Description of Products
Artificial rubber
Reclaimed gums...
Recovered products (raw waste and remains of worn out articles) powder ( " poudrettes " ) .......
Sheets and crips of non vulcanised rubber.....
Other articles of non vulcanised rubber :
rubber solutions and dispersions ... ..... industrial adhesives with a base of rubber or assimilated products , on any backing (fabric, paper , felt , plastic materials , etc. ) in sheets , banda , plaits, or cut out..
Thread of rubber:
rubber thread , uncovered. Bwaibtbhertetxhtrielaed tahnrdearde.p.e.s..c.o.vered
Plates , sheets and strips of vulcanised rubber, uncut or cut in a square or rectangular form, combined with fabrics (comprising more than two pleats or weighing more than 1500 g. per square meter ) , with textile materials yarns or nets , with metal or with other materials ...
Pipes and tubes of rubber, combined or not with other materials ......
Rubber belts (conveyor or transmission belts )..
Coverings and carpets of non spongy or cellulose rubber Hygienic , pharmoeutical and surgical rubber articles :
injection bulbs , bulbs for dropping tubes , vaporizers and other purposes ......
Teats , nipple shields , baby comforters , sterilizer caps and similar articles ....
gloves ....
protectors ...

Rate of Duty ad valorum Free Free Free 8%
15%
15%
5% 18%
18% 14% 14% 14 %
20% 20% 20% 20%

953470 49---pt. 5 49

A766

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES Tôi STAT .

PART (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
7218 721F
722C 722D 722E 723
7244 724B
724C

Description of Products bathing caps ....

Rate of Duty ad valorim
20%

other (icebags , hot water bags , oushions,

exygen bags, sounds, cannules, urinals,

pessaries, collectors for operated patients,

etc. )......

20%

Rubber clothing and clothing accessories :

braces, gaiters , sock-suspenders and their

parts......

30%

mufflers (mittens) and gauntlets for

industrial purposes.....

30%

other (excluding capes , waterproofs , aprons ,

pilches and dress preservers)

30%

Articles of spongy or cellulose rubber, not

elsewhere specified or included .......

20%

Rubber tyres for vehicle wheels :

solid or hollow tyres (on frame or without

frame (en boudins)..

......

18%

inner tubes, weighing each:

more than 2 kg. (known as for extra heavy or

heavy cars )..

18%

2 kg and less (known as for light cars,

motor-cycles, bicycles and motorised

bicycles)..

225

outer covers :

pneumatic tyres for aircraft...........

22%

other including tubular tyres , weighing each:

more than 15 kg (known as for extra

heavy and heavy cars )....

18%

15 kg and less (known as for light

cars, motor-oycles , bicycles and

motorized bicycles ) ..

22%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A767

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
725A 725B 7250 725D
726A
7260
728A 728B 728C 728D 7281
7287 728G 729H

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorum

Other articles of rubber , not elsewhere specified or included :

moulded articles , not made up ......

14%

shaped articles or articles drawn by machine ,

not made-up

14%

articles of cut out sheets or casings , not

made-up...

14%

EE

articles made-up by gluing or otherwise,

with or without parts of other materials..

14%

Hardened rubber (ebonite):

slabs , plates and sheets , not cut or eut in

a square or rectangular form..............

18%

sticks and rods.....

18%

tubes ....

18%

Chapter 4 LEATHER HIDES OR SKINS

Hides or skins, raw: hides of large bovine animals (ox, cow and bull) , including buffalo.....
kipskins...... calf skins.........
equidae hides................ skeep skins , except dry cuirots : sheep skins (wooled-skins , " rasons " and crossbred) , lamb skins , baby-lamb skins ( " regords" )
goat skins , except dry cuirots.
pigskins... skins of reptiles , batrachia, fish and other sea animals.

Free Free Free Free
Free Free Free
Free

A768

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
7281 7293 ex 730
733
734

Description of Products
other, not elsewhere specified or included ...
Limed or pickled sheep skins , including dry cuirots :
sheep skins.....
lamb and baby-lamb skins ( regords ) ................ Hides of large bovine animals (ox, cow and bull), including buffalo, simply tanned :
hides of full thickness , parts of hides : shoulders , flanks and other parts (excluding bands, backs and butts ) .... split hides :
hair side : whole hides ... parts of hides : flanks and other parts ( excluding bands , backs, butts and shoulders ) ..
splits: whole hides ....
Sheep skins , simply tanned : skins tanned or treated with formol ......
other :
Indian crossbred sheep skins .. other:
sheep skins... lamb and baby lamb skins ( regords) .
Goat skins simply tanned : skins tanned or treated with formol ..

Rate of Duty ad valorum Free
Free 10%
10%
12% 12% 10% 10% 2% 6% 10% 6%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT . 30 , 1947

A769

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE

PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products other:

Indian goat skins... other.....

7354 Pigskins , simply tenned......

Hides of large bovine animels ( ox, cow, ball) , including buffalo, curried or further processed than tammed :

736A

vegetable-tanned or synthetically tanned......

736B

mineral tamed or with mixed taming

(including semi -chrome ) .....

7360

chamois-dressed hides ......

736D

hides dressed by the Hungarian method or

paio'mont drossed hidos ······

7365

patent or metallized leather (hides ) ..........

calf skins, further processed than tamed:

737A

vegetable tamed or gynthetically tanned:

skins, not fat-liquored................ fat-liquored skins......

737B mineral tanned or with mixed tanning....... 737D patent or metallised leather (skins ) ......
Equidae hides, further processed than tanned:

ex 738A ex 738B

vegetable-tamed or synthetically tanned, not fat-liquored and fat-liquored hides, parts of hides: butts and upper parts of the hind legs, front parts and other parts (except bands and back butts) .....
mineral tamed or with mixed tanning, parts of hides: butts and upper parts of the hind legs, front parts and other parts (except bands and back-butts)....

Rate of duty ad valorum
246 10% 15%
15% 15% 10% 15% 17%
12% 12% 126 17%
10%
10%

A770

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
738D
739A 739B
739C
740A
740B
741A 7418 7410 741D 741E 741F 741G 744

Description of Products

patent or metallised leather (hides ) .......

Sheep skins , further processed than tanned: chamois · dressed skins......

patent, metallised and velvet-finish leather skin......

other, ncluding parchment dressed skins.

Goat skins , further processed than tanned :

patent, metallised or velvet-finish leather

(skins).

......... .....

other, including parchment - dressed skins..

Other skins, further processed than tanned :

pigskins.....

stagskins and antelope skins...

dog skins ............... rabbit skins.....

seal skins and skins of other sea mamin

skins of reptiles , batrachia and fish.

other ......

Imitation leather with a basis of vegetable , mineral or animal fibres (leather excepted), pure or mixed , agglomerated or impregnated with the assistance of natural or synthetic rubber, viscose, natural or synthetic resins and other similar products , in sheets , slabs or rolls, coated or not , but not fashioned or worked .....

Rate of Duty ad valorum 17%
12% 20% 13%
20% 15%
15% 12% 12% 12% 12% 12% 12%
15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A771

SCHEDULE X · FRANCE

PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valoriz

7460 7463 747 748
750A 750B 7500 750D
7514 751B 7510
752A 752B
755A

Chapter 45

MANUFACTURES OF LEATHE HIDES OR SKINS AND
ARTICLES OF INDUSTRY RELATED TO LEATHER, HIDEO SKINS

* ***

Saddlery goods : game-bags, haversacks, tool bags, wallets.......
arms cases, binocular cases, cases for cameras or other cases ; cartridge pouches

Portfolios , satchels, music-cases and the like..... Mailbags and shoppingbags Travelling requisites :
trunks ......

***

travelling bags .... attaché cases or sit cases

*

hat cases, shoe cases , collar, cuffs, necktie, etc., boxes, bottle cases and other similar articles...
Morocco wares, not elsewhere specified or included:

** *

women's and girls' handbags of all shapes ......

cas (for instruments, etc. ) flexible......

other articles (pocket-books, purses, card cases, flexible cases, tobacco pouches, book holders, etc) 25%
Sheath and case-makers wares, not elsewhere specified or included:

jewel and like cases covered with leather ....

25%

other articles covered with leather

25%

Gloves of leather or skin :

outdoor gloves for men, boys and children ......

22% but not less than
60fr per pair

A772

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
755B
755C
756A 7560 756E
757

Description of Products
outdoor gloves for women and girls .....
protecting gloves for the industry . Industrial articles of leather :
belts ...... articles for the textile industry..... other articles , not elsewhere specified or included ...... Other wares of leather, hides or skins , er of artificial leather, not elsewhere specified or included ..........

Rate of Duty ad valorum
22% but not less than 60fr.per pair 25%
10% 20%
20%
20%

Chapter 46 FURSKINS AND FURS

Raw furskins , not elsewhere specified or included :

759A

rabbit and hare......

Free

759B

other .

Free

Furskins , dressed , whole skins or sewn pieces
(squares , sheets , bags or "touloupes" ) ; waste not sewn:

760A

rabbit and hare, whole skins or sewn pieces :

white not dyed ...................

Free

other

10%

7608

sea otters , nutria and beavers , whole skins

or sewn pieces ...

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A773

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
7600
7614 7618

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorum

other furskins , dressed, including Asian goat

and Mouflon and China dog, whole skins or

sewn pieces ...

10%

Purskins , worked or made-up ( furs ) not elsewhere specified or included :

shaped tails

30%

clothing and accessories of clothing lined with

fur or ( and) trimmed with fur, in which the

value of the furskin exceeds 50 p. 100 of the

total value of the article .......

30%

763A
763B 7630 764
Ex 765A

Chapter 47 WOOD AND MANUFACTURES OF WOOD

Wood for fuel:

***

logs with a length of lm, 20 and less, split in quarters or in round pieces with a oiroumference of less than 60 cm, at the thicker
end ; twigs, faggots and firewood ......

waste of wood, other than sawdust

8%

wood prepared for gazogenes ....

8%

Charcoal

4%

Wood, round, rough, whether or not stripped of its bark or rough-hewn with the axe or adze :

common wood

of conifers :

in logs, less than 2m. 50 in length and

of all diameters, intended for paper

making ......................

10%

poles stripped of the bark, with a

length of 6m. 50 exclusive to 15m. 50 inclu-

sive and having a circumference at the

thicker end of 45cm, exclusive to 90cm.

inclusive

10%

other

10%

A774

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
765B

Description of Products fine wood

Wood, squared or planed with the axe, the saw, the planisher tool or the adse:

766A

common wood :

conifers, whether or not impregnated, permeated or coated .......

other, other (except okoume and oak) , whether or not impregnated , permeated or coated .....

766B

fine wood

......

Sawn wood, not elsewhere specified or included:

Ex 767A

common wood:

sonifers, whether or not impregnated, permeated or seated, with a thickness of more than 75 cm................

other, other (except okoume and oak), impregnated, permeated or coated, with a thickness of 5 mm. exclusive to 75 mm . inclusive :

767B

fine wood:

cedar .......

other, including mahogany and walmut ....

770A Cooper's wood : stavewood .......

771 Hoop wood, " lisses" , laths , split vine props ··

Ex 773

Veneers, in sheets : neither connected nor jointed, of common wood

connected or jointed ......

Rate of duty ad valorem
Free
10% 15% Free
14%
18% Free
5% 5% 15% 15% 15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A775

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

779 Ex 780

Wood (timber), planed , grooved and (or ) tongued and grooved ; planks , friezes or strips for flooring, planed , grooved and (or ) tongued and grooved
Wood beadings and mouldings (except beadings for electric tubing) ....

784 Ex 791

Veneer or plywood panels ....
Packing cases and light packings of wood being neither veneer wood nor plywood , of sliced or unrolled wood, or with parts of sliced or unrolled wood ( "billots" , cheese-cases , etc. ) .....

792A Cooper's wares , hooped with wood or metal :

casks, drums or tuns :

not fitted together, in bunches or in bulk, and any finished parts thereof (staves , jointed or cut down, planed or jig-Bawn, etc. )

fitted together , entered:

empty

full

Ex 794C

Wooden articles for industrial purposes , not
elsewhere specified or included , other, of common wood , with or without fittings or accessories ....

796 Handles for tools, whether or not with iron

fittings or metallic accessories , of common wood

or of fine wood .......

.....

798B Ex 799B

Small wares and cabinet-makers ' wares (articles of ornament , of shelves and fancy or decorative articles , made of wood , not elsewhere specified or included , other articles
Other manufactures of wood , not elsewhere specified or included , other articles of common wood .....

Rate of duty ad valorem 18% 18% 25%
8%
20% 20% 10% 8% 6%
15% 10%

A776

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

Chapter 48

FURNITURE AND BEDDING

Wooden chairs , not stuffed, fitted or not, and parts thereof:

800A

of osier, reed , rattan, bamboo and the like

20%

800B

other !

non-folding chairs :

of bent wood

18%

other than of bent wood

20%

folding chairs ....

20%

Chairs, stuffed , fitted or not , and parts thereof :

802A

chairs, called " comfortables"

20%

Ex 8023

other :

of wood .....

20%

of other materials , not elsewhere specified

or included , other ( except plastic materials)

20%

Wooden furniture , other than chairs , not upholstered or covered, fitted or not , and parts thereof:

804A

of osier, reed , rattan, bamboo, and the liko .

20%

804B

other :

of bent wood

15%

.....

other than of bent wood :

Solid :

of common wood

15%

of fine wood .....

20%

veneered

20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A777

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Furniture other than chairs , upholstered or covered, fitted or not, and parts thereof:
806A stuffed or padded

806B Ex 806C

entirely covered other :

of wood

of other materials , not elsewhere specified or included, other (except plastic materials) ......
807 Frames of wood .....
808 Lighting apparatus of wood:

of common wood , plain or moulded , carved or otherwise wrought :
without ornaments of other materials ..

ornamented with other materials (metal , glass , ceramic, plastic materials , etc. ) of fine wood or veneered with fine wood ... Box-mattresses :
810A metallic

810B other

811 Overlay mattresses and similar articles , with metallic frame and other
812 Pillows and bolsters , filled ....
813 Coverlets , eiderdowns , cushions , feather-beds , sleeping bags and similar articles, fitted .....

Rate of duty ad valorem
Duties on chairs, stuffed , other, according to kind (No.802B )
20%
20%
20% 15%
15% 20% 20%
20% 20% 20% 20% 20%

A778

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Chapter 49 CORK AND CORK WARES.

Cork, compressed , worked :

818B

discs for crown corks and similar uses ...

818C

other wares not elsewhere specified or

included .....

Chapter 50

Ex 821B

SPARTERIE AND BASKETWARE
Wares of wickerwork, not elsewhere specified or included , of vegetable materials , not covered or decorated with other materials :

of raw vegetable materials ....... of wood strips

of stripped osier or reed other

Rate of duty ad valorem
25% 25%
18% 18% 20% 20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A779

SCHEDULE

FRANCE

PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Ex 822A

Chapter 51 MATERIALS USED IN THE MANUFACTURE OF PAPER
Paper pulp, dry ( containing 40% and less of water), of wood, of conifers , chemical pulps :

soda process: unbleached bleached

bisulphite process: unbleached ..... bleached

other : unbleached bleached .....

Rate of duty ad valorem
22% 24% 22% 24% 22% 24%

Chapter 52 PAPER AND CARDBOARD

Paper and cardboard , specified :

20%

825B

orystal paper

825C

grease-proof paper and tracing paper

25%

25%

825E

wadding of cellulose ...

Paper and cardboard not specified , in a continuous form:

826A

neither marked nor watermarked, nor surfaced

nor rubbed:

formed of a single layer of pulp (en un seul fat" )

A780

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE II - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

straw paper and cardboard

18 %

containing mechanical pulp:

containing more than 60 per cent of

mechanical pulp (brown paper and

cardboard, paper and cardboard semi-

chemical of wood or other) , weighing

per square meter more than 320 g .....

25 %

containing 60 per cent and less of mechanical pulp :

brown paper and cardboard and

paper and cardboard semi-chemical ,

of wood , weighing per square

metre more than 320 g ......

25%

other (except Kraft paper and

oardboard) weighing per square

metre more than 320 g.......

25%

without mechanical pulp, other (except Kraft paper and cardboard) :

without rag pulp or containing less

than 75 per cent of rag pulp ......

25%

containing 75 per cent and more of

rag pulp ......

20%

formed of two or several layers (en deux ou plusieurs jets) :

with the interior of straw paper .......

18%

with the interior containing mechanical pulp:

of brown paper and of semi- chemical

wood paper .....

25%

other (except with the interior of

Kraft paper) .....

25%

with the interior not containing

mechanical pulp, other ( except withthe

interior of Kraft paper)

25%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A781

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

826B ex 827

marked, watermarked, surfaced or rubbed .....
Paper and cardboard , not specified , made on the winding machine:

straw paper and cardboard

containing mechanical pulp :

containing more than 60 per cent of mechanical pulp ......

containing 60 per cent and less of
mochanical pulp , obviously of a density of less than 1.30 ......

829 ex 830

without mechanical pulp ....
Paper and cardboard simply goffered or stamped..
Paper and cardboard simply creped or crinkled , other (except Kraft paper and cardboard) .......

ex 833A ex 833B
833C

Paper and cardboard coated or impregnated: gummed paper and cardboard , other (except Kraft paper and cardboard) ........
coloured paper and cardboard , other : marbled , mottled , with mosaic designs
paper and cardboard known as " golatinised" (albuminized, casein-coated and the like ) ....

833D

paper and cardboard known as " starched" (with

feoula ,with dextrine , etc. ) ......

833E

paper and cardboard tarred , bituminised , or

asphalted ......

833F

paper and cardboard paraffined , stearined or

waxed .....

833H

paper and cardboard coated or impregnated

with artificial resins or plastic materials

(bakelited paper and the like) ; paper and

cardboard coated or imprognated with nitrocelluloso ....

Rate of duty ad valorem
25%
18%
25% 26% 25% 25% 25%
25% 20% 20% 25% 20% 20%
20%

95347 0- 49--pt. 5- -50

A782

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued).

French Tariff Itom No.

Description of Products

8331

paper and cardboard oiled or varnished ......

833J

paper and cardboard, surface- doated, white

or colonred:

paper and cardboard , coated or impregn.tod with baryta .......

paper and cardboard , metallised .....

other

833K

paper and cardboard, velvety and the like ....

833L

stencil paper .....

833M

carbon paper, chemical , transfer and like

papers...

833N

other

834 Paper and cardboard , sulphurated ......
835 Vulcanised fibre, painted , varnished, decorated or not ......

Rate of duty ad valorem 20%
15% 20% 25% 28% 22%
22% 30% 20%
18%

Chapter 53

WARES OF PAPER AND CARDBOARD

Paper and cardboard, out out, not elsewhere specified or included:

836C

strips for shelves , goffered or not , with or

without printing, other than of lace- paper ..

20%

836D

laoo-papor, with or without printing

2.5%

8367

other ....

25%

837 Wallpaper, including out borders

25%

838 Diaphanous papers ( stained glass paper of any

kind) .......

20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A783

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Contimed)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

839 Floor coverings with a backing of cardboard....

Paper for duplication and transfer, made-up for retail sale:

842A

carbon and like paper .....

842B

complete stencils, with or without carbon

paper ......

842C

other

843A Writing paper and cards and envelopes , plain or ruled, including or not print of non-personal nature, put-up otherwise than in boxes or compendiums :
folded paper in the form of umstitched folders, not exceeding 18 x 22 cm . in size..

paper blocks of sheets gummed together on one edge .........

ex 8440

post-cards, not picture , letter-cards, envelopes ......
Registers, office wares , articles for schoolchildren and the like, plain or ruled, with or without print of non-personal nature: paper blooks of shoots gumed together on one edge...

Cardboard wares, with or without print:

846C

packing material:

of ordinary manufacture, made-up or flat,
with or without metal parts, covered or not with paper:

not waterproofed .....

waterproofed de luxe and fancy

Rate of duty ad valorem 25%
22% 22% 22%
25% Duty on similar artioles for office wares (No.844C)
22%
25%
20% 25% 20%

A784

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Contimed)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

846D

other ......

852C Bands and strips, folded, coated or not, for wickerwork and other purposes (flat threads of paper) ......

Rate of duty ad valorem
20%
20%

Charter 54 BOOK INDUSTRY AND PRODUCTS OF THE GRAPHIC ARTS

Newspapers and periodicals, illustrated or not, of which not more than 2/3 of their surface is devoted to advertising:

8531

daily newspapers ......

853B

publications (not daily) , issued at bast

once every quarter

653C

other

Books :

855A

stitched, bound in boards or in cloth ......

855B

bound in natural or artificial leather .....

Calendars and tear-off calendars:

859A

toar-off calendar blocks .....

859B

calendars, directly printed on paper or

cardboard, with or without tear-off blocks ,

not further worked ....

859C

pooket calendars ....

859D

other

862 Picture posteards , in booklets or in sheets ...

863 Religious pictures not exceeding 9 x 14 cm. in size

Free Free Free
Free 20%
18%
18% 22% 22% 18% 20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30. 1947

A785

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

ex 867C 86 7D

Advertising matter:
Brochures and catalogues of an official nature of general interest (touring, propaganda, etc. ) except any private advertising .......
other printed matter for advertising purposes (commercial cards , circular- letters , prospectuses , tracts , bills , folders , directions for use, posology notes , insets, price- lists , etc. ) :

of an official nature of general interest (touring, propaganda , etc , ) except private advertising ......
other , illustrated or not , obtained by :

typography and similar processes ......
lithography, offset , heliography, copper-plate, stamping and other processes
868 Other printed matter and reproductions , not elsewhere specified or included , illustrated or not , obtained by:

typography and similar proces80s
lithography , offset , holiography , copperplate , stamping and other processes .......................

Rate of duty ad valorem
18%
18% 18% 20%
18% 20%

Chapter 55

RAW TEXTILE MATERIALS. NOT SPUN AND WASTE THEREOF.

869 Silkworm ooooons suitable for reeling .......

Free

ex 870 Floss silk, floss silk waste, noils and other silk waste , pure or mixed:

A786

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE II - FRANCE PART 1 (Dontinued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

in the mass (ooooons unsuitable for reeling, cocoon outer down (blazes ) flocks , "bassines" , husks , floss silk, floss silk waste , noils, waste yarn, etc.) .....
combed, carded, ravelled:

in sheets or in rolls, pure or assimilated ......

in ribbons or slubs , pure or assimilated
872 Wool in the mass:

on the skin

in the yolk or washed before shearing ......

sooured, whether or not bleachod or dyed: not carbonised .. carbonised ....

Fine hair in the mass:

873A

hair of rabbit , hare , boaver and the like ...

873B

hair of the alpaca , llama , vicuna , yak,

camel, angora goat, Tibetan or cashmere goat,

and the like ......

876 Devilled material of wool or fine hair, pure or

mixed ........

.....

876 ex 877

Wool and fine hair , carded or combed ...
Coarse hair of animals of the bovine and equine species (except horsehair, )also common goats' hair, and the like, uncurled

ex 878 Flax, raw, in straw, or simply retted, soutohed flax ......

Rate of duty ad valorem
Free
2% 5%
See wooled skins (No. 728E) .
Free
Free 1%
Free Free Free 2%
Free Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A787

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

Fronch Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

ex 879 880

Ramie (China grass ) , in thin strips , crushed, soutched or in tow, in pure or mixed waste, in devilled materials pure or mixed (except combed ramie) ......
Cotton:

unginned .....................

gined, unbleached 881 Cotton waste:

linters:

883 884 885 886
887 888 891 ex 892
894 897

washed, scoured, cleaned ( in the mass, slabs or sheets)
other, pure or mixed
Cotton , carded or ooembed ..........
Cellulose-wool and other discontimous artificial fibres , in the mass or in skeins...
Waste of artificial fibres (including waste of yarn), pure or mixed .................... ..............
Devilled natorial of artificial fibres pure or mixed .......
Artificial fibres carded, combed or drawn
Homp ......
Sisal, agave ,aloe and maguay
Jute and assimilated fibres (dah, paka, gouana, punga, rosolla, etc. ) in stalks , harl or tor .....
Coconut fibre ....
Other fibrous plants (phormium tenax, etc.) not elsewhere specified or included ........................

Rate of duty ad valorom
Free
Free Free
Free 14% Froe 8% 18% 18% 18% 20% Free Free
Free Free Free

A788

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHOULY I -FRANCE RT I (Continued)

Tronoh Tariff Itor No

Desori tion of Froducts

Chantor 56 YARN TAI AD ROPE 899 Raw silk , ontorod: in hanks or skeins otherwise ......

Yarn of pure carded wool , or assimilated yarn, not put-up for rotail salo :

915A

single :

urbloached

bleached ,dyed or printed

915B

twistod or ocblod :

unbleachod ......

bleached , dyed or cyintod .....

Yarn of puro combod wool , or assimilated yarn , not put-up for retail sale :

916.

singlo

urbloc.chod ......

bloached, dyed or printed

916B

twistod or cabled :

unbloachod .....

....

bleached, dyod or printed

Yarn of pure fine hair , or assimilatod yarn, or mixed with wool , not put-up for retail salo:

917..

oarded

9173

o ombod ...

Reto of duty nd valorem
Froo 5%
1% 6% 4% 6%
3% 4% 4% 5%
8% 8%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A789

SOTTO

FRANCE

PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No..

Dosorintion of Products

Rate of duty ad valorom

Yarn of wool or fine hair, pure or mixod, put-up for retail salo :

919A

ocrdod .....

10%

0193

conbod .....

10%

Flax or rario yarn, puro or assimilatod yarn , not put-up for retail sale :

92LA

single :

unbleached

10%

bleachod, dyod or printed

12%

9213

Gristod or cablod , unbleachod , bleached, dyed

or printed .............

12%

923 Flex or renie yarn, puro or mixed , put-up for

retail salo ...

15%

Yarn of puro cotton , or assimile tod yarn, noithor
glazod nor meroorisod, not put-up for retail sale :

9241

single, unbleached , soourod , oroaned , bloached,

dyod or printed , moasuring to the kg:

loss than 99,500 r. ..

15%

99,500 n. and more .....

20%

924B

single, doublo-spam and with special tist

for voiles and eropos , unbleached , scoured,

creamed , blecohod , dyed or printod , measuring to tho 'g:

less than 92,500 n.

15%

99,500 m. and more ..

20%

924C

twisted , unbleached, scoured , crocmod,

bleached, dyod or printod , monsuring to the

. in singlo yarn:

A790

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI -FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
924D 924E
925C
925D 9253 926
927A

Dosoription of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorem

less than 99,500 m. 99,500 m, and more.. gabled, unbleached , scoured, creamed, bleached, dyed or printed................... Special or fancy , unbleached, scoured, creamed, bleached, dyed or printed................ Yarn of pure cotton, or assimilated yarn, glased or mercerised, not put-up for retail sale: twisted, unbleached, scoured, creamed , bleached , dyed or printed, measuring to the kg. in single yarn: less than 99,500 m. 99,500 m. and more ........... cabled, unbleached, scoured, creamed, bleached , dyed or printed ....... special or fancy, unbleached, scoured, creamed, bleached, dyed or printed................. Mixed cotton yarn, not put-up for retail sale
Yarn of pure or mixed cotton, put-up for retail sale:
neither glazed nor mercerised , put-up: on wooden bobbins . otherwise,..

15% 20%
20%
20%
16% 20%
20%
20% Same duties as yarn according to kind , of the most highly taxed textile in the form of yarn, existing in the mixture in a proportion above 15 %
15% 10 %

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A791

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Contimed)

French Tariff Item No.
929B
928A 928B
929A 929B 932
933A 933B
935A 935B 937

Description of Products
glazed or mercerised , put-up: on wooden bobbins
otherwise
Yarn of acetate rayon, pure or mixed, not prepared for retail sale:
single, not thrown or thrown at less than 400 turns .....
single, thrown at 400 turns and more, twisted or cabled
Thread of viscose rayon and other continuous artificial fibres, pure or mixed, not put-up for retail sale:
single, not thrown or thrown at less than 400 turns .....
single, thrown at 400 turns and more, twisted or cabled ......
Flat threads (artificial straw) , of artificial fibres
Yarn of cellulose-wool and of other discontinuous artificial fibres , pure or mixed, not put-up for retail sale:
single
twisted or cabled
Hemp yarn or genista yarn, pure or mixed , single or twisted , not glazed:
single twisted
Cabled yarn (double twist , cords, ropes ) of hemp or genista, pure or mixed
Yarn of manila, abaca, banana-tree, sisal , agave, aloe, maguey, pure or mixed, single or twisted, not glazed:

Rate of Duty ad valorem
15% 10%
25% 25%
25% 25% 25%
20% 20%
20% 20% 20%

A792

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
938A
938B

Description of Products
single ..... twisted ....... .....

939A 939B

Yarn of manila, abaca, banana-tree , sisa , agave , aloe , maguey , pure or mixed , single or twisted , glazed :
single
twisted .....

940 Cabled yarn (double-twist , coris , ropes ) of

manila , abaca , banana-tree , sisal , agave , aloe,

maguey, pure or mixed

....



Yarn of jute or assimilated materials or of typha, pure or mixed , single or twisted , not glazed :

941A

single

9418

twisted

Yarn , twine and ropes of coconut-fibre , pure or mixed :

944A

single yarn .....

9448

twisted yarn ....

9440
947A 947B

cabled yarn (double- twist , cords , ropes ) .. Paper yarn, single or twisted , not glazed :
single ..... twisted

Paper yarn, single or twisteri , glazed !

948A

single .....

948B

twisted

949 Cabled yarn (double-twist , cords , ropes ) , of paper

Rate of duty ad valorem 18% 18%
18% 18%
18%
18% 20%
20% 20% 20%
20% 20%
20% 20% 20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A793

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
950A 950B
953A 953B
Ex 954B Ex 954C Ex 957A
958

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

Yarn, twine and rope of any textile materials , wired :

twisted yarn ....

20%

cabled yarn (double- twist , cords , ropes ) ..

20%

Chapter 57

WARP AND WEFT FABRICS , EXCEPT RIBBONS AND VELVETS , NOT PRINTED

Fabrics of silk or schappe , pure or mixed to-
gether, originating in countries of the Far East :

pongees , corah, tussah or tussor, of pure

silk , plain, unbleached or scoured but

neither bleached nor dyed

13%

other ....

20%

Crèpes of silk or schappe , pure or mixed together, and assimilated fabrics :
hard-twist crèpes , plain , unbleached .....
other , plain , unbleached
Close-woven fabrics , foulards and other fabrics, not elsewhere specified or included , of silk or of schappe , pure or mixed together , and assimilated fabrics : plain fabrics , scoured , bleached , dyed or manufactured with yarns of different colours
Fabrics of silk or schappe , mixed with other textile materials

15%
15%
15%
Same duties as fabrics , according to kind , of the most highly taxed textile in the form of fabric , existing in the mixture in a proportion above 15%.

A794

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I ( Copined)

French Tariff Item No.
965
966

Description of Products
Fabrics of wool or of fine hair, pure or mixed together, and assimilated fabrios .......... Fabrics of wool or of fine hair, mixed with other textile materials

967A Fabrics of pure coarse hair or assimilated fabriss

Blankets of wool or hair, in pieces or made-up:

969A

blankets of wool or fine hair, pure or

mixed together, and assimilated blankets...

969B

blankets of mixed wool or mixed fine hair ..

969C

blankets of coarse hair, pure or mixed.....

Fabrics of flax or ramie , pure or mixed together and assimilated fabrics , plain:

970A

unbleached

970B

bleached, creamed , washed , lye-washed or

dressed .....

970C

dyed .....

970D

manufactured with yarns of different

colours

Fabrics of flax or ramie , pure or mixed to-
gether, and assimilated fabrics , figured (damask and other) :

9714

unbleached

971B

bleached, creamed , washed, lye-washed or

dressed

971C

dyed ....

Rate of Duty ad valor
15%
Same duties as fabrics , according to kind, of the most highly taxed textile in the form of fabric , existing in the mixture in a proportion above 15%.
10%
15% 15% 15%
25%
25% 25%
25%
25%
25% 25%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A795

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
971D
973A 973B 973C 973D
Ex 974A
Ex 974B
974D 975 981D
983A 983B
984A

Description of Products
manufactured with yarns of different colours....
Pure cotton fabrics , and assimilated fabrics , plain, not mercerised :
unbleached......
scoured, creamed or bleached..
dyed........
manufactured with yarns of different colours....
Pure cotton fabrics , and assimilated fabrics , plain, mercerised :
unbleached , weighing per square metre more than 130 g. , containing in warp and weft , in single thread, per square of 1 cm. side , 60 threads and less.....................
scoured , creamed or bleached, weighing per square metre more than 130 g. , containing in warp and weft, in single thread, per square of 1 cm. side , 60 threads and less..........
manufactured with yarns of different colours
Pure cotton fabrics and assimilated fabrics , with honey-comb , huckabak and similar weaves...
Pure cotton fabrics , and assimilated fabrics , figured, not elsewhere specified or included , mercerised , manufactured with yarns of different colours......
Cotton blankets , in pieces or made up :
pure cotton blankets, and assimilated blankets. ........................
mixed cotton blankets.......
Crepes of rayon and other continuous artificial fibres , pure or mixed :
special goffered mourning crepes ......

Rate of Duty ad valorem 25%
20% 20% 20% 20%
20%
20% 201 20
20,
15 15%
20%

A796

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
984B 984C
986A 986B 987
988A 988B
993A 993B
994A 994B

Description of Products
hard-twisted arèpes...... other.......
Close-woven fabrics , foulards and other fabrics, not elsewhere specified or included , of rayon or other continuous artificial fibres, pure ar mixed :
plain fabricos......
figured fabrics........ Pulled fabrics of cellulose -wool or other discontinuous artificial fibres , pure or mixed Fabrics of cellulose-wool or other discontinuous artificial fibres , not fulled , pure or mixed, plain :
unbleached, sooured or bleached..
dyed or manufactured with yarns of different colours.....
Fabrics of jute , of assimilated fibres (dah, paka, gouana, punga, rosella, etc. ) or of typha, pure or mixed :
plain fabrics....
figured fabrics.....
Fabrics of coconut fibres , pure or mixed:
plain fabrics.......
figured fabrics.....

Rate of Duty ad valorem 20% 20%
20% 20% 25%
20, 20%
25% 257 25% 25

Chapter 58
RIBBONS VELVETS , CARPETS , TULLES , LACES GUIPURE FABRICS WITH KNOTTED MOSHES
TRIMMINGS NOT PRINTED
Ribbons (other than velvet ribbons) of pure cotton, and assimilated ribbons :

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A797

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I ( Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
1011A
1011B

Description of Products
plain ribbons .... figured ribbons ....

Rate of duty ad valorum
20%
20%

Ribbons and webbings of rayon or other continuous artificial fibres , pure or mixed :

1013A

velvet ribbons and assimilated ribbons 25%

1013B

other .....

25%

1018B Ribbons and webbings of jute or other

vegetable fibres , not elsewhere specified

or included , pure or mixed , other than of

velvet .....

25%

1020 " Boldue" ( sized ribbon ) of all textile

materials .....

25%

cotton velvets and plushes :

1027A

velvets and plushes , wefted , weighing more

than 350 g . per square metre ....

20%

1027B

velvets and plushes , wefted , weighing

350 g . and less per square metre , and

velvets and plushes , warped .....

20%

ex 1028 Cotton looped fabrics , woven or not on Jacquard loom , creared or bleached or

manufactured with yarns of different

colours .....

20%

1029 Cotton chenille fabrics ....

20%

ex 1030 Velvets and assimilated fabrics of rayon , cellulose -wool or other artificial fibres :

smooth or ribbed , unworked , dyed or

manufactured with yarns of different

colours , weighing per square metre

more than 175 g .....

25%

worked ( cut , goffered , etc ) weighing per

square metre more than 175 g ......

25%

1032B Carpets with knotted or twisted bindings ,

of other textile materials ....

30%

Woven carpets :

1033A

with metal or of metal yarns , of silk ,

schappe , synthetic fibres , of wool or

of fine hair ....

20%

95347 0-49- pt. 5 -51

A798

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued )___

French Tariff Item No.
1033B 1033C 1033D Ex 1033E
1033F 1033G 1035
1036B ex 1037
1038
ex 1039

Description of Products

Kate of duty ad valorum

of floss silk waste , of coarse hair

or horse hair ...

20%

of cotton...........

25%

of rayon, cellulose -wool or other

artificial fibres ....

25%

of manila, abaca , banana-tree ,

agave, sisal , aloe or of maguey , hand-

made (door-mats , rugs , Mourzouck type

and the like)

25%

of jute and assimilated fibres or of

typha ......

25%

of cocoanut fibre , hand or mechanically

made .....

25%

Tapestries made of all textile substances (high warp tapestries , low-warp tapestries , or small stitch ) :

entirely hand-made without the interven-

tion of any mechanical process ,

Jacquared or other .....

15%

mechanically made .....

25%

Tulles , plain , of cotton..

20%

Lace , hand- made , with semi - fine metal or imitation or of metal yarn made with semifine metal or imitation , of silk , floss silk ( schappe ) , synthetic fibres or of other textile fibres ( except lace with fine metal , or of metal yarn made with fine metal ) ..... 20%

Lace , machine-made , point- lace and bobbinet

tulle , in strips of 30 cm. and less width, |

fitted or not , of flax , ramie , hemp , cotton,

rayon, cellulose- wool ( " fibranne " ) or

other artificial fibres ...

20%

Lace , machine-made , point- lace and bobbinet

tulle , other ( laces or lace- tissues , and

trimmings ) , of flax , ramie , hemp , cotton , rayon, cellulose- wool ( " fibranne" ) or

other artificial fibres

20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A799

SCHEDULE X · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1042
Ex 1043
Ex 1044
104.54

Description of Products
Cherdlles , the pile of which is:
of metal, of metal yarn, of silk, floss silk (schappe ) or of synthetic fibres .......
of wool or fine hair
of cotton ......
of rayon, cellulose wool ( "fibranne" ) or other artificial fibres .... of other textile materials ......
Textile yarns , lapped , the sheath of which is: of imitation metal or of imitation metal yarn, of silk, floss silk (sohappe ) or of synthetic fibres of cotton ............
of rayon, cellulose wool ("fibranne" ) or other artificial fibres ...
Braids (with or without core) : with semi-fine metal or imitation or of semi-fine or imitation metal yarn, of silk, floss silk (schappe ) or of synthetic fibres ... of horsehair
of flax or ramie
of cotton ...
of rayon, cellulose-wool ( "fibranne" ) or of other artificial fibres ....
Other trimmings: articles hand-sewn or stitched:

** * * *

** *

*** **

Rate of Duty ad valorem
15% 15% 20% 25% 20%
15%
15% 10%

A800

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1045B

Description of Products
containing fine metal
containing (without fine metal ) semifine metal or imitation metal , silk, floss silk (schappe) or synthetic fibres .... other ......
other , made on the tenterhook frame , the spindle or otherwise :
containing fine metal other .....

Rate of duty ad valorem 15%
20% 20%
15% 20%

Chapter 59

WADDING AND FELTS: SPECIAL FABRICS : FABRICS , PRINTED IMPREGNATED OR COATED; ARTICLES USED FOR TECHNICAL PURPOSES.

1046B Wadding and articles made of wadding , not

elsewhere specified or included : of cotton :

10%

Felts in pieces , not impregnated, coated or covered :

Ex 1047A

felts of wool and (or ) fine hair , other:

pure or mixed in any proportion of

coarse hair , of horse hair , of silk

or synthetic or artificial fibres , or mixed , with or without the above

materials, with other materials

(cotton and other vegetable fibres , metal yarn, utc. ) ; the latter

representing 25% and less of the

total weight , weighing per square

meter more than 400 g. ....

20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A801

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

10478 1053

mixed , with or without coarse hair, horse hair , silk or synthetic or artificial fibres , with other materials (cotton and other vegetable fibres , metal yarn, etc. ) the latter representing more than 25% of the total weight
felts of coarse hair
Transmission or conveyor belts , reinforced or not :

of camel hair or other animal textile materials , or of synthetic fibres , pure or mixed in any proportion with other materials ......

of vegetable textile materials or of artificial fibres , pure or mixed together or with materials other than animal or synthetic fibres ....
1054 Elastic fabrics (fabrics , ribbons , tulles , laces , trimmings) .....
1055 Printed fabrics (fabrics of chapters 57 and 58 )

1056A 1056B

Fabrics specially prepared for book-binding , drawing , painting , hat-making:
percaline , coated with gluc , starch, etc. , for bookbinding , cardboard boxes , casemaking and similar uses
tracing or transparent cloth

Rate of duty ad valorem
20% 20%
15%
18% 25% Duties of fabrics , according to the kind , manufactured with yarn of different colours , as the case may be.
20 20%

A802

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1057
1058 1059
1060 1061
1062
1067A

Description of Products
Linoleums :
not inlaid:
of uniform colour
printed inlaid
Oilcloth , American cloth and other fabrics covered on a single face with a coating having a drying oil base
Oiled fabrics (impregnated or coated on both sides ) :
of silk, floss silk ( schappe ) or of synthetic fibres , pure or mixed in any proportion
of other textile materials ...
Fabrics , covered with a coating having a base of cellulose derivatives
Rubberized fabrics :
non- adhesive
adhesive
Fabrics , impregnated or coated with synthetic resins
Technical articles of fabrics , not clsewhere specified or included:
fabrics , felt and felt lined fabrics , glued on rubber or on fabrics not set with stoel teasles for the manufacture of card slabs or fillets , and similar articles

***

Rate of duty ad valorem
30% 35% 35% 25%
15% 20% 20% 22% Sce No.715D 20%
15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A803

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
Ex 1067D

Description of Products
endless fabrics or circular woven fabrics , whether or not impregnated or coated: felted fabrics for paper manufacturing and other technical uses ;
of wool , pure or mixed of cotton and other ......

Rate of Duty ad valorem
20% 15%

Chapter 60 EMBROIDERY ·

1070

Woven labels , made of any textiles for the

marking of clothing , linen, shoes , hats ,

etc. , with or without metal , with or without

broche or embroidered parts , in pieces ,

ribbons or cut out

25%

Chapter 61

CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES OF CLOTHING , MADE OF FABRICS.

Outer olothing for men and boys :

1071A

protective clothing ....

22%

10718

special clothing

22%

1071C

official service clothing , uniforms and

liveries ...........

22%

1071D

working clothes

22%

10710

indoor garments .....

22%

1071F

shorts and singlets for sports .

22%

1071G

other .....

22%

A804

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Outer clothing for women and girls:

10724

waterproof clothing of coated or impregnated fabrics

10728 10720

special clothing uniforms ...

10720

working clothes

10723

indoor garments .....

1072 1072G

shorts and singlets for sports other :

of linen (shirt blouses , fine blouses and other):

entirely machine-made

entirely or partly hand-mado

not specified ......

Outer clothing for children :

1073A

waterproof clothing made of coated or impregnated fabrics

1073B 10730

indoor garments ... other

1074

Underwear for men and boys ...

1075

Underwear for women and girls:

entirely machine-made ......

entirely or partly hand-made

1076

Underwear for children :

entirely machine-made .....

entirely or partly hand-made ......

Rate of Duty ad valorem
22% 22% 22% 22% 22% 22%
22% 30% 22%
22% 22% 22% 22%
25% 30%
25% 30%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A805

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued )

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1078A 1078B

Corsets , belts , sheath corsets , stiffened or not , set or not , with or without suspenders ; bust bodices , braces , suspenders and the like :
corsets and belts
sheath corsets .....

1078C

bust-bodices and correctors

1078D

busks and springs for corsets , clothing and accessories of clothing and the like .......

1078E 1079

braces, suspenders , garters , sock-suspenders Handkerchiefs and fancy handkerchiefs :

simply hemmed (simple hem or hem-stitched ) or edge rolled , without ornamenting :

entirely machine -made

entirely or partly hand-made
other (including embroidery , stitch embroidery border , applique work, inserts , bordering work , etc. ) :
entirely machine-made
entirely or partly hand-made 1080 Shawls , scarves , neckerchiefs , mufflers ,
kerchiefs , squares and the like
decorated with hand-made paintings
other

1081A

Collars , detachable collars , shirt-fronts , cuffs for men and boys :
collars and detachable collars ......

Rate of Duty ad valorem
30% 25% 30% 30% 30%
22% 30%
22% 30%
20% Duty of the fabric
25%

A806

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
10818 10810
Ex 1082A 10828
1084A 1084B 10840 1084D 1084E 1084F 1084G 1084H

Description of Products
shirt-fronta ouffs .....
Trimmings for women's clothing and underwear (collars , collarettes , tuckers , fallals , bodioe-fronts , jabots , wristpieces , cuffs , yokes , flounces , ruches , shaped pleats and puffs , etc. ) ; lappets , facings , brundenburgs, arm-bands , orests , badges and similar articles :
of linen (lingerie ) , entirely handmade .....
other
Accessories of clothing , not elsewhere specified or included :
dress -preservers
parts of clothing (sleeves , pockets , etc.) ......
gloves , mittens , mufflers , stockings and sooks made of fabrics ....
muffs of fabrics ....
pads and shoulder straps for tailors .
veils and hat-veils
belts and girdles ..
other ...

Rate of Duty ad valorem 25% 25%
25% 30%
25% 22% 22% 22% 20% 20% 30% 22%7

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A807

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
1086A 1086B 1086C 1086D 1086E
1087
1088A 1088B

Description of Products
Chapter 62
MADE-UP ARTICLES OF FABRICS , NOT ELSEWHERE SPECIFIED OR INCLUDED.
Household linen: bed linen : entirely machine-made
entirely or partly hand-made table linen :
entirely machine-made entirely or partly hand-made
toilet and hygienic linen : sanitary towels and wads .. other
pentry and kitchen linen ....
furnishing linen (curtains , window-nets , blinds and other articles) :
entirely machine -made ..... entirely or partly hand-made ...... Furnishing articles of fabrics other than household linen (curtains , hangings , table-covers , d lies , etc. ) ...... Awnings , tents and tilts , blinds and similar articles , whether or not coated or impregnated: light tents and with double roof of any fabrics , weighing per square meter 250 and less ; earth carpets .... other

Rate of Duty ad valorem
Duty of fabric 30%
Duty of fabric 30% 20%
Duty of fabric Duty of fabric
Duty of fabric 30% 25
Duty of fabric Duty of fabric

A808

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1089
1090 1091
Ex 1092A
Ex 1092B
1093

Description of Products
Camping articles not elsewhere specified or included (pneumatic mattresses and pillows , pails , containers , etc. ) of fabrics , whether or not coated or impregnated ....... Sails for ships , rigged or not .......
Sailor bags and similar articles
Packing bags or sacks :
empty, new, of fabrics of jute and of materials assimilated to jute , or of typha, pure or mixed
full , of fabrics of jute and of materials assimilated to jute , or of typha, pure or mixed
Other made-up articles of fabrics , not elsewhere specified or included

Rate of Duty ad valorem
Duty of fabric Duty of fabric Duty of fabric
30% 40% of the duty of new sacks Duty of fabric

Chapter 63

HOSIERY (net stitch articles )

1097

Knitted fabrics of synthetic fibres , pure

or mixed, with simple or complex mesh .....

30%

1098

Knitted fabrics of wool or fine hair , pure

or mixed , with simple or complex mesh .....

13

1100

Knitted fabrics of cotton, pure or mixed ,

with simple or complex mesh .......

25%

Stockings , socks , ankle socks and the like ,
knitted , of silk or floss silk ( schappe ) pure or mixed :

1104A

stockings and under-stockings :

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A809

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued )

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1104B 1104C
1105A 1105B 11050
1106A 1106B 1108A 1108B
1109A 11098

on circular loom ( tubular), seamless or with fictitious seam , with or without fanoywork ......
other, with or without faneywork .....
socks and half-hose , with or without fanaywork ....
ankle socks , soles and toe-pieces ... ..........
Stockings , sooks , ankle sooks and the like, knitted, of synthetic fibres , pure or mixed :
stockings and under-stockings , with or without fancywork
socks and half hose, with or without fanoywork ......
ankle socks, soles and toe pieces , with or without fancywork
Stockings , socks , ankle sooks and the like, knitted , of wool or fine hair, pure or mixed :
stockings , under-stockings , socks and half-hose, with or without fancywork ....
ankle socks , soles and toe pieces .............
Stockings , socks , ankle socks and the like, knitted, of cotton, pure or mixed:
stockings , under-stockings , socks , half-hose , with or without fancywork ....
ankle socks , soles and toe pieces
Stockings , socks , ankle socks and the like , knitted, of rayon and other continuous artificial fibres , pure or mixed :
stockings , under-stookings , socks and half-hose, with or without fancywork ....
ankle socks , soles and toe pieces ......

Rate of Duty ad valorem
22% 30% 22% 22%
35% 35% 35%
22% 22%
257 25%
35% 35%

A810

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1110A 1110B 1114 1115
1120A 1120B 1126
1132
1133 1134

Stockings, socks , ankle socks and the like, knitted, of cellulose-wool ( "fibranne" ) or other short artificial fibres , pure or mixed :
stockings , under-stookings , sooks and half-hose, with or without fandywork ..................
ankle socks , soles and toe pieces ......
Knitted underwear of wool or fine hair, pure or mixed ......
Knitted underwear of flax, ramie, ootton, hemp or genista, pure or mixed
Knitted clothing of wool or fine hair, pure or mixed:
knitted clothing, out or sewn ......
knitted clothing , full-fashioned
Knitted layette articles of wool or fine hair, pure or mixed ;
loom-made .....
hand-made .....
Knitted gloves of wool or fine hair, pure or mixed:
machine-made
hand - made
Knitted gloves of flax, ramie, ootton, hemp or genista, pure or mixed, machine-made or handmade
Knitted gloves of rayon or other continuous artificial fibres, pure or mixed:
machine-made
hand-made



**

** * *

Rate of Duty ad valorem
25%
32% 32% 30% 39% 30% 35% 30% 30% 35%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A811

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1137
1139
1140A

Description of Products
Clothing accessories , knitted (shawls, scarves , neckties , neckerchiefs , kneepieces , leggings , cuffs , etc. ) Knitted elastic fabrics , in the piece ....
Knitted elastic articles , not elsewhere specified or included :
corsets , belts , sheath corsets , bust bodices and the like

1140B 11400

stockings , Books , knee-pieces and the like ..........
other articles ..

(

Rate of Duty ad valorem
30% 25%
Duty of corresponding articles made of fabrics (No.1078A, B and
25% 25%

Chapter 64 OLD CLOTHES , RAGS AND SCRAPS. 1142 Rags and scraps of textile materials

1143A 1143B

Chapter 65
FOOTWEAR AND SIMILAR ARTICLES.
Footwear with natural or artificial leather or rubber soles , with uppers of leather or assimilated materials , not elsewhere specified or included :
footwear not extending above the ankle
footwear extending above the ankle:
laced-boots and ankle-boots
half-boots and boots ..................... ..

Free
20% 20% 25%

A812

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
11444 11448 1144C 1145A
1146A
1146B 11488

Description of Products
Footwear with natural or artificial leather or rubber soles , with the uppers of natural or artificial rubber , not elsewhere specified or included :
footwear not extending above the ankle .......
footwear extending above the ankle ......
overshoes ......
Footwear with natural or artificial leather or rubber soles , with the uppers of fabrios made of silk or floss silk (sohappe) , pure or mixed, or of any fabrics or felts broche, worked with metal or embroidered : footwear not extending above the ankle .....
Footwear with natural or artificial leather or rubber soles , with the uppers of other materials , not elsewhere specified or included :
footwear not extending above the ankle :
slippers
other :
with leather soles
with rubber soles
footwear extending above the ankle ......
Footwear with soles of other materials (rope , cardboard, fabric , felt, wickerwork , etc. ): with uppers of fabrics made of silk or floss silk (schappe ) , pure or mixed, or of any fabrics or felts , broche , worked with metal or embroidered

Rate of Duty ad valorem
25% 25% 25%
20%
20% 20% 22% 20%
20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -- OCT. 30 , 1947

A813

SCHEDULE I - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No. Ex 11508
1150C

Description of Products
Parts of footwear:
soles (outsoles , slip-soles , insoles ) , half -soles , heels, heel-pieces , toecaps , counters and similar pieces :
of natural or artificial rubber (soles , half-soles , heels , "bonbouts" and other)
of wood: heels ....
uppers and goloshes , legs and quarters , linings and parts of linings , legstiffenings or lining-stiffenings , and other parts of made-up footwear .....................

Rate of Duty ad valorem
14%7 20% 20%

1152A
1156 1158A 1158B
1159A

Chapter 66
HATS .
Plaits for the hat-making industry , of straw, bark, reed, esparto , raffia, ribbons ar shavings of wood and similar vegetable materials , natural horse hair and textile materials , not spun ..
Bands for hat trimming , of leather or other materials ......
Felt shapes for hats:
of hair or wool and hair felts .....
of felt wool
Hat shapes , plaited or obtained by the collating of strips plaited , woven or otherwise prepared :
of shavings , straw, bark , esparto , flax, hemp , aloe, abaca, sisal and other vegetable fibres , not spun, pure or mixed together :

Free 10%
18% 16%

95347 0- 49- pt. 5- 52

A814

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
11598 11590
1159D
1160A 1160B
1161A

Description of Products
plaited in a single piece ......
re-meshed , meshed or tied ................
of paper flat thread ( "lames " ), coated or not , pure or mixed in any proportion with shavings, straw, etc. ........................
of wool , silk, ootton , ramie and other vegetable fibres , spun, of natural horse hair, in strips of fabrics or felt or other products not specified, pure or mixed in any proportion, together or with other materials, except flat thread ("lames" ) of rayon or assimilated products ...
of rayon flat thread ( "lames " ) (artificial straw) , artificial horse hair, plastic materials, including thread covered with rayon or plastic materials, pure or mixed in any proportion , together or with other materials .......
Felt hats:
untrimmed .......
trimmed:
for men
for women and children:
with hatters ' trimmings .......
with milliners ' trimmings
Hats, plaited or obtained by the collecting of strips , plaited, woven or otherwise prepared:
untrimmed .....

Rate of Duty ad valorem
20% 1596
25%
25% 14% 24% 14% 25% Duties of corresponding shapes (No.1159 A, B, C, D)

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A815

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
11618
1162D 1162E
1166B

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

trimmed :

for men

25%

for women and children :

with hatters ' trimmings

25%

with milliners ' trimmings

28%

Hats and other head-dresses , knitted, or made up of fabrics , lace-tissues ( " laizer" ) or felt in pieces, including waxed, oiled, rubberized or otherwise coated fabrics :

caps, kepis, and the like, trimmed or not :

kepis and uniform caps ....

15%

other

256

berets, bonnets, skull-caps and similar headdresses, untrimmed or with inside trimming only :

of the basque berets or alpino berets type ,

and the like, of knitted fabric, strongly

fulled or felted , or of wool or horse-

hair felt

25%

fezzes , chechias and the like ..

25%

of hosiery or knitted fabric, neither

fulled nor felted ......

30%

other

30%

Hats and other head-dresses of any other
materials, not elsewhere specified or included, trimmed :

for men

25%

for women and children :

6&&

with hattors ' trimmings

25%

with milliners ' trimmings ........

286

A816

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

Chapter 68
FR PARD ORNAMENTAL FEATHERS AND ARTICL S MADE OF FEATHERS; ARTIFICIAL FLOWERS ; ARTICLES MADE OF
HUMAN HAIR; FANS

1175 Artificial flowers, foliage and fruits

18%

Chapter 69

WARES OF STONE AND OTHER MIN RAL MATERIALS

1180 Paving blocks, kerbstone and paving slabs of

natural stone

3.

Slate, worked :

1181 A

slabs and sheets

5%

1181B

roofing slates

106

Wares of carving or building stone, not elsewhere specified or included :

1183A

simply cut or sawn, with smooth or plain surface :

of limestone and alabaster

12%

of granite, porphyry, syonite , lava, sand-

stone and similar hard stones .....

15%

of other stones

106

ex 1183B

shaped or turned , but not polished or carved or otherwise worked :

of limestone and alabaster : of " ecaussincs" 136

of granite , porphyry, syenite , lava, sand-

stone and similar hard stones

15%

of other stones

1%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT . 30 , 1947

A817

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART (Continued)

Franch
Tariff Item No

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

ex 1183C ex 1183D

polished , decorated , or otherwise worked but

not carved : of granite, porphyry, syenite,

lava, sandstone and similar hard stones .....

15%

carved: of granite, porphyry, syenite, lava,

sandstone and similar hard stones ......................

15%

Manufactures of plaster or compounds of plaster, not elsewhere specified or included :

11844

tiles, boards, slabs, panels and the like,

not ornamented or decorated .....

Free

11848

other (staff, mouldings, etc. ) .....
Manufactures of concrete or of artificial stone, reinforced or not, not elsewhere specified or included :

Fres

1185A

tiles of 20 am. side

10%

1185B

other ......

10.

Kamufactures of asbestos-coment, cellulose-cement and the like:

1187A

roofing materials, tiles, slabs, sheets,

panels, plates

15.

1187B

pipes, sheaths and accessories of pipe and

tube works .....

15.

Manufactures of asbestos, not elsewhere specified or included:

1188A

filterable masses of asbestos, pure or mixed

in any proportion with cellulose, in fibres

or plates

256

11888

cardboard, felt, and paper of asbestos

25%

1188C

yarns and cords, single or twisted

25%

1188D

plaits, whether or not impregnated or

graphited, with or without a core of other

materials

25%

A818

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1188E

gaskets .........

1188F

Asbestos fabrics, mixed or not with textile materials or glass wool .....

1188G

articles of asbestos or of asbestos fabrics

1189 Friction linings for brakes, couplings and all friction gear with a base of asbestos,
cellulose, textiles or other materials, with or without an admixture of base metals , in the form of rings, discs , washers , bands, boards, plates and rollers

ex 1190

Manufactures for insulating purposes , not
elsewhere specified or included , with a base of kieselguhr and other fossil silica or light earths ......

1191A 1191B 1191C
1191D

Manufactures of mica, not elsewhere specified or included :
sheets or thin plates of mica cut in any forms or machine finished .......
fabrics or paper treated with mica ....
sheets made of compressed mica chips (micanite in sheets , micafolium, etc. ) not cut or cut in a square or rectangular form.
other articles, moulded or machine finished of micanite, micafolium and the like

Rate of duty ad valorem 25,0 25% 25%
30%
156
5% 10% 10/ 10%

Chapter 70

CERAMIC PRODUCTS

1194 Building bricks of common clay, whether or

not glazed, or enamelled, or coloured

16/

1196 Roofing tiles of common clay, whether or

not glazed , or enamelled, or coloured

12%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A819

SCHEDULE XI- FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1197 1198 1199 1201
1202A
1202B 1202C 1202D
12034
1203B 12030

Description of Products
Building pottery and accessories of roofing, of common clay, whether or not glazed, or enamelled or coloured ......
Drainpipes and the like ...
Paving and facing tiles of common clay, whether er not glazed, or enamelled, or coloured .......
Other wares of common olay, not elsewhere specified or included, whether or not glazed, enamelled or coloured .....
Fireproof bricks and fireproof parts for building:
aluminous and silico-aluminous :
of argillaceous earth containing less than 32% of alumina ( 10³) other .............
siliceous, gontaining more than 85 p.100 of silica (S10 ) ......... magnesian, containing magnesia (MgO) or dolomite ... other ......
Other fireproof products (retorts, saggers, crucibles, muffles , nozzles, plugs , supports, oupels, tubes , sheaths , rods, etc. ) :
aluminous and silico-aluminous :
of argillaceous earth containing less than 32% 100 of alumina ( Lo³) other ............. .
siliceous, containing more than 85 p.100 of silica (Si0 ) magnesian, containing magnesia (MgO) or dolomite .....

25

X 2X 2

Rate of duty ad valorem
12% 10% 17%
17%
10% 20% 20% 20% 20%
19% 20% 20% 20%

A820

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No
1203D 1204 1205 1206 1207
1208 1209 1210 1211 1212 1213 1214 1215
1216A 1216B 1217 1218

Description of Products

other

Tiles , bricks , roofing tiles , paving blooks and paving slates of stoneware...

Pipes and joints of stoneware .......

Utensils and apparatus for chemical or technical uses of stoneware ...

Crookery, household utensils , receptacles

for preserves and articles for rural

economy of stoneware ..............

.........

Sanitary stoneware appliances (sinks , washbasins , bidets, baths , etc. )

Other manufactures of stoneware , not elsewhere specified or included ......

Facing tiles and the like of earthenware

or fine pottery ........

.....

Crookery, household or toilet articles and utensils , of faience or fine pottery ....

Sanitary earthenware

Faience or fine pottery articles for furnishing or decorating purposes ................

Other articles of faience or fine pottery not elsewhere specified or included ...

Articles imitating porcelain (porelite , parcelite , porcelainite , etc. ) ............................
Crockery , household or toilet articles and utensils of porcelain :
tea or coffee services

other articles ....

Porcelain articles for furnishing or decorating purposes ....

Laboratory utensils of porcelain

Rate of Duty ad valorem 20% 20%
12%
15% 18% 15% 20% 18% 25% 20% 20% 18%
25% 25% 20% 20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A821

SCHEDULE X · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
12234 1224 1225 1226
1227A
12278 1228
1229A 1229B 1230 1231 1233

Description of Products
Chapter 71
GLASS AND GLASSWARE.
Tubes of ordinary glass , not elsewhere specified or included ..............
Plate glass and slabs , urworked .....
Plate glass and slabs smoothed or polished on one or both surfaces
Window-glass ....
Cast glass (hammered, impressed, corrugated) ;
hammered glass (cathedral and the like) and impressed (rhombic ( "diamantes") , fluted, channelled and the like) .......
corrugated glass , coloured or not ......
Glass and plate glass , chilled , in sheets or slabs , not cut or cut in a square or rectangular form, without any other working ......
Glass and plate glass , foliated , in sheets or slabs , not out or out in a square or rectangular form , without any other working :
athermanous glass , with inset foils of glass fibres ......
other .... .........
Glass and plate glass mirrors
Other mirror articles of glass or plate glass ...
Carboys , bottles and flasks of all shapes and for all uses ( except isothermic receptacles ) , with or without stoppers or other stopping devices :

Rate of Duty ad valorem
20% 80% 20% 20%
20% 20%
20
20% 20% 20% 20%

A822

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1234
1236A 1236B

Description of Products
not out , dulled, engraved, or decorated :
not sheathed , or covered , with a capacity of :
more than 2¹.60
22.60 and less ......
sheathed or covered , entirely or partly ....
out, dulled , engraved or decorated otherwise than by simple moulding ...
Jars , pots and other containers for packing, of glass , with edges or bolsters , with ar without covers or other stopping devices:
not cut, dulled , engraved , or decorated ......
out, dulled, engraved or decorated, otherwise than by simple moulding .....
Table or kitchen glassware :
goblets , drinking glasses , cups , carafes and pitchers:
not cut, dulled , engraved or decorated ......
cut, dulled , engraved or decorated otherwise than by simple moulding ....
other articles (plates , salad-bowls, radish-dishes , knife- ests , eto. ) :
not cut , dulled , engraved, ar decorated .....
out, dulled, engraved or decorated otherwise than by simple moulding ....

Rate of Duty ad valorem
25% 20% 20% 20%
20% 22%
17% 20%
17% 20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT . 30, 1947

A823

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1237
1238A 1238B 12380 1238D 1239
1240A 1240B 12400 1241

Dosoription of Products
Glassware for flat furnishing and decorating purposes (vases , cups , statuettes , ash-trays , office articles , aquariums , stands , protecting globes, etc. ) whether or not out, dulled, engraved , or decorated
Glassware for lighting , signalling and common optical purposes :
lamp glasses , glass-screens ("verrines " ), ohimneya for lighting purposes ...................
reflectors , diffusers , cups , cupels, lamp-shades, globes , tulips and the like
facetted glass , plaquettes , balls , almonds and similar fittings for luster and other purposes .......
glass for signalling and common optical purposes (fitted or not)
Convex glass for watches or cammon spectacles ......
Articles of glass , not elsewhere specified or included , for building , industry and agriculture :
articles for building (paving blooks, bricks, roofing tiles , etc. ) ........
articles for industry
articles for agriculture ( bells , etc. )
Glassware for the laboratory , hygiene and pharmacy, blow-lamp or otherwise produced :
neither graduated nor gauged
graduated or gauged

Rate of Duty ad valorem
20%
20% 20% 20% 20% 256
20% 20% 20
20 22%

A824

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI -FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1242A 124 28 1243
1245A 1245B 1245C
1245D
1245E 1246
1249A 1249B 1249E
1251A

Description of Products
Bulbs and tubular receptacles : bulbs .....
tubular receptacles .....
Glass articles not elsewhere specified or included ......
Articles of crystal :
bottles , flasks , jars , pots and other packing containers , stoppers and covers ..
table and kitchen glassware ..
glassware for flat furnishing and decorating purposes (vases , cups , statuettes , ash-trays , office articles , stands , etc. ) ......
glassware for lighting purposes (reflectors , diffusers , cups , lamp-shades , globes , tulips , facetted glass , plaquettes, balls , almonds , etc. )
other articles , excluding optical glasses, bulbs and tubes for electric uses ......
Glass for medical spectacles , urworked , simply cut or moulded
Small glassware :
beads , drops and the like .....
imitations of precious pearls, including imitative ......
other
Articles of small glassware ; not elsewhere specified or included :
purls, torsades , stringings

Rate of Duty ad valorem
20% 20% 25%
24 24%
24
24 24% 20% 20% 15% 20%
22

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A825

SCHEDULE XI- FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1251B
1251C

Description of Products
flowers, leaves , ornaments and wreaths of beads other

Rate of Duty ad valorem
22% 22%

Chapter 72

REAL PEARLS : GEMS ; PRECIOUS METALS.

Ex 1257B

Fine stones , cut or otherwise worked for

industrial purposes : articles of piezo-

electric quarts

15%

Chapter 73

WARES OF PRECIOUS METALS (JEWELLED ORNAMENTS JEWELRY GOLDSMITHS AND SILVERSMITHS WARES; FANCY JEWELLED ORNAMENTS

12700

Wares of silver and silver gilt: silver-

amiths' wares ......................

15%

1271B

Silver-cased , silver plated or silver

inlaid wares: silversmiths ' wares .......

15%

1275

Fancy jewelled ornaments, of base metals ,

whether or not gilded or silvored , with or

without parts of other materials or

without metallic parts .......

30%

12788

Chapter 75
CAST-IRON IRON STEEL.
Cast-iron, unworked , in ingots or pigs :
phosphorus or semi-phosphorus castiron .....

A826

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
12780 12780
1279A 12798 12790 1279D 12798 1279F
12790
Ex 1281D
Ex 1283D
12844 1284B

Description of Products
hematite and semi-hematite castiron ......
spiegel cast-iron
Ferro-alloys ;
ferro-manganese .......
ferro-aluminium , ferro-silico-aluminium, ferro-silico-mangano-aluminium .....
ferro-silicon ....
silico-spiegel and ferro-silicomanganese ................
ferro-ohromium and ferro-silicochromium ...
ferro-titanium and ferro-silicotitanium; ferro-tungsten and ferrosilico-tungsten ...
ferro-boron, ferro-molybdenum , ferrotantalum, ferro-uranium , ferrovanadium and other ferro alloys and ferro-silico-alloys , not elsewhere specified or included ......
Special alloy steel , in ingots , with a total content of all elements , other than iron, carbon, sulphur and phosphorus, of less than 10p.100
Special alloy steel , in blooms , slabs , billets , flat bars and rough forgings, with a total content of all elements , other than iron, carbon, sulphur and phosphorus , of less than 10 ......
Machine wire :
of iron and non-alloy steel , standard,
of special non-alloy steel ......

Rate of Duty ad valorem 5%% 6% 12% 12% 12% 12% 12% 12
12%
7%
8%% 12%7 12%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A827

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1284C 1284D
1285A 1285B 1285C 1285D 1286
1287A 1287B 1287C 1287D Ex 1288D
1289D
Ex 1295A

Description of Products
of alloy steel , standard of special alloy steel
Bars (round, square , flat , hexagonal , etc. ) , hot-rolled or forged:
of iron and non-alloy steel , standard .. of special non-alloy steel ..... of alloy steel , standard .....
of special alloy steel .... Pilings , hot-rolled or forged .....
Profiles , not elsewhere specified or included , hot-rolled or forged:
of iron and non-alloy steel , standard ..
of special non-alloy steel ..... of alloy steel , standard of special alloy steel
Flat billets of special-alloy steel , with a total content of all elements , other than iron, carbon , sulphur and phosphorus , of less than 107.
Hot-rolled hoops of special-alloy steel ... Sheets unfigured (smooth or corrugated, flat or in rolls) :
of iron or non-alloy steel , standard , having a resistance per square meter of :
less than 56 kg. (soft iron and steel):
uncovered sheets ; glazed sheets for automobiles covered sheets , metallised : tinned

Rate of Duty ad valorem 12%7 127
107 107, 10% 10% 11%
11% 11% 11%4 117
11%7 137
167 187.

A828

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No,

Description of Products

56 kg. and more (hard steel):

uncovered sheets : pickled , burnished or glazed ......

covered sheets : metallised ........

Ex 1295B

of special non-alloy steel , with a content of carbon of less than 0.45 p.100 or of 0.45 p.100 and more:

uncovered sheets : pickled, burnished or glazed

covered sheets : metallised

1295D

of special-alloy steel

Extruded wire :

1297A - of iron and non-alloy steel , standard ..........

1297B Ex 1297D

of special non-alloy steel ........
- of special alloy steel , with a total content of all elements , other than iron, carbon, sulphur and phosphorus , of:
- less than 10 p.100
-- 15 p.100 and more

Ex 12980 Drawn bars :

drawn bars of special alloy steel of round, square, rectangular , hexagonal or octagonal section , with a total content of
all elements , other than iron , carbon , sulphur and phosphorus , of less than 10 p.100 ......

Gauged bars:

Ex 1299A

bars , crusted , turned , compressed, or

hammered out , of special alloy steel , with

a total content of all elements , other

than iron, carbon, sulphur and phosphorus

of less than 10% ......

....

Rate of Duty ad valorem
16% 18%7
16% 18% 187 19% 197
18% 18%
19%
197



61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A829

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No. Ex 1299B Ex 1300A
Ex 1300B
Ex 1301D
1304A 1304B

Description of Products
rectified bars of special alloy steel , with a total content of all elements , other than iron, carbon, sulphur and phosphorus, of less than 10 p.100 .......
Cold-rolled profiles (sections) :
solid profiles :
of iron and non-alloy steel , standard , of special non-alloy steel , of standard alloy steel
of special alloy steel , with a total content of all elements , other than iron, carbon , sulphur and phosphorus, of less than 10%
bent profiles :
of iron and non-alloy steel , standard , of special non-alloy steel , of standard alloy steel ......
of special alloy steel , with a total content of all elements , other than iron, carbon , sulphur and phosphorus , of less than 10 p.100
Cold-rolled hoops , standard , of special alloy steel , with a total content of all elements , other than iron , carbon , sulphur and phosphorus , of:
less than 10 p.100
15 p.100 and more ..
Tubes and pipes of iron u. steel , straight and of uniform thickness , unworkca :
tubes and pipes of iron and non-alloy steel
tubes and pipes of alloy steel

Rate of Duty ad valorem 19%
19 19%
19% 19
197 18%
197 25%

95347 0-49 -pt. 5- 53

A830

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X -FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1305
13068

Description of Products
Tubes and pipes of iron or steel , straight and of uniform thickness , polished or covered .....
Tubes and pipes , of iron or steel , worked or shaped, other (coils , curved, tubes , threaded, hammered out , conical , expanded , extruded, etc. ) .......

Rate of Duty ad valorem
Duties of pipes and tubes, unworked (Nos. 2304A and B)
Duties of tubes and pipes, straight and of uniform thickness , according to the kind (No.1304A and B 1305)

1 * 1 11

1308 1310A 13108 13100
1310D Ex 1311

Chapter 76
COPPER AND COPPER ALLOYS.
Products of the first smelting of copper (matte) .....
Copper, urworked :
copper for refining , with a copper content of 997 and less (blisters , black copper , cement copper)
copper, refined , thermio , containing more than 99 and less than 99.97 (rough lumps, ingots , plates , anodes , pellets )
electrolytic or thermic refined copper containing 99.9 copper and more, including silver (cathodes , wire-bars , ingots , blocks , plates , pellets , powders, eto. )
waste and scraps of manufacture ......
Copper wire, solid bars and profiles (sections ) of copper , simply rolled , hotforged (spun) , drawn or extruded , whether soaled or not ........

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A831

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1312 1313 1314 1315
1316A Ex 1316B
1317A 13178 Ex 1318
Ex 1319
1320

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorem

Copper sheets , slabs , leaves and bands
Copper plates for furnaces
Thin copper leaves and bands , plain or goffered , cut or not , perforated or not , with or without inset
Impalpable copper powder Copper tubes , pipes , hollow bars , rolled , hotforged, drawn , welded, butt-joined , riveted or fastened, or otherwise obtained:
cross-bars
other , straight and of uniform thickness , with a rough surface
Copper alloy with 10% and more of zinc , urworked :
ingots and rough lumps
waste and scraps of manufacture ...
Wire , solid bars and profiles ( sections ) of copper alloy with 10% and more of zinc :
simply rolled , hot-forged ( spun) , drawn or extruded , whether scaled or not
gilt or silvered ......
Sheets , slabs , leaves and bands of copper alloy with 10% and more of zinc :
with an unworked surface
gilt or silvered ....
Plates for furnaces , of copper alloy with 107 and more of zinc

14% 12%7
15% 209
127 137
Free Free
157 157
157 15% Duty of copper plates for furnaces (No.1313)

A832

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued )

French Tariff Item No. Ex 1321
1323A Ex 1323B Ex 1325 Ex 1326
1327 1328
1330A Ex 1330B

Description of Products
Thin leaves and bands of copper alloy with 10 and more of zinc , plain , or goffered , whether or not cut or perforated , with or without inset:
not stuck on paper , cardboard , plastic materials and similar supports : simply rolled or hammered .....
stuck on paper , cardboard , plastic materials and similar supports .................
Tubes , pipes and hollow bars of copper alloy with 10% and more of zinc , rolled , hot-forged (spun) , drawn , welded , butt-joined , riveted or fastened , or otherwise obtained:
cross bars
other, straight and of uniform thickness , with an unworked surface ...
Wire , solid bars and profiles ( sections ) of other copper alloys , simply rolled , hotforged (spun), drawn or extruded , whether or not scaled ....
Sheets , slabs , leaves and bands of other copper alloys , with an unworked surface ....
Furnace plates of other copper alloys .....
Thin leaves and bands of other copper alloys , plain or goffered , whether or not cut or perforated , with or without inset
Tubes , pipes and hollow bars of other copper alloys , rolled , hot-forged (spun) , drawn, welded , butt-joined , riveted or fastened, or otherwise obtained :
cross-bars
other, straight and of uniform thickness , with an unworked surface

Rate of Duty ad valorem
16%7 167
D% 167 127 14% 12% 16%
12% 167

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A833

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1331 1332A 13328 13320 1333
Bx 1334

Description of Products
Chapter 77 NICKEL AND NICKEL ALLOYS. Nickel , cast , matte and speiss ....... Nickel pure or alloyed with manganese, unworked :
ingots, cathodes , discs , cubes , balls, pellets cast anodes
waste and scraps of manufacture .... Wire, solid bars and profiles ( sections ) of nickel pure or alloyed with manganese:
neither gilt nor silvered : hot-forged (spun) , or rolled drawn extruded
gilt or silvered ....
Sheets , slabs and bands of nickel pure or alloyed with manganese :
with an unworked surface :
not out or cut in a square or rectangular form , not channelled , grooved or corrugated , curved, or perforated , with a thickness of :
more than 0.15 m.m. .................. 0.05 m.m. exclusive to 0.15 m.m. inclusive other ... gilt or silvered

Rate of Duty ad valorem
Free
87
107 13% 227 224
187 87. 187 18%

A834

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1337A 13378 1338
Ex 1339
1342A 13428 1343

Description of Products
Nickel alloys containing more than 5 and less than 50% of nickel , unworked :
ingots , discs , cubes , balls , pellets
waste and scraps of manufacture
Wire , solid bars and profiles (sections ) of nickel alloys containing more than 57 and less than 50% of nickel :
not gilt or silvered :
hot-forged (spun) , rolled , drawn .............. extruded .....
gilt or silvered Sheets , slabs, leaves and bands of nickel alloys containing more than 5% and less than 50% of nickel :
with an unworked surface ..... gilt or silvered
Nickel alloys containing 50% and more of nickel , unworked :
ingots , discs , tubes , balls , pellets .....
waste and scraps of manufacture ......
Wire, solid bars and profiles ( sections ) of nickel alloys containing 50% and more of nickel :
of nickel chrome without iron , or containing less than 10% of iron:
hot-forged (spun) , rolled , drawn ...... extruded

gg

Rate of Duty ad valorem
87 87
15% 18% 18%
187 18%
8% 8%
10% 187

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A835

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
Ex 1344

Description of Products
other : not gilt or silvered: hot-forged ( spun) , rolled, drawn .. extruded gilt or silvered ................
Sheets, slabs , leaves and bands of nickel alloys, containing 50% and more of nickel :
of nickel chrome without iron or containing less than 10% of iron other, with an unworked surface ......

Rate of Duty ad valorem
10% 20% 22%
18% 8%

Chapter 78 LIGHT METALS AND ALLOYS OF LIGHT METALS.

Aluminium, urworked:

1347A

ingots, urworked lumps , plates or

billets ......

21%

13478

grains , pellets or granules

21%

13470

waste and scraps of manufacture ....

21%

Ex 1348

Aluminium wire , solid bars and profiles

(sections ) , simply rolled , hot-forged ( spun),

drawn or extruded , whether or not scaled ...

20%

Ex 1349

Aluminium sheets , slabs , leaves and bands

with an unworked surface .....

20%

Ex 1350

Aluminium thin leaves and bands , plain or goffered, whether or not cut or perforated , with or without inset:

A836

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1352 Ex 1354 Ex 1355 Ex 1356
1358 1359A

Description of Products
not stuck on paper , cardboard , plastio materials and similar supports: other (lacked , gummed , coloured , printed , gilt or silvered , etc. , except those simply rolled or hammered or oxided) ....
stuck on paper, cardboard, plastic materials and similar supports .....
Aluminium tubes , pipes and hollow bars, rolled, hot-forged (spun) , drawn , welded, butt-joined , riveted or fastened, or otherwise obtained , straight and of uniform thickness , with an unworked surface or other , or shaped
Wire , solid bars and profiles ( sections) of aluminium alloys , simply rolled , hotforged (spun) , drawn or extruded , scaled or not
Sheets , slabs , leaves and bands of aluminium alloys , with an unworked surface
Thin leaves and bands of aluminium alloys, plain or goffered, whether or not cut or perforated , with or without inset :
not stuck on paper , cardboard , plastic materials and similar supports : other (lacked, gummed , coloured , printed , gilt or silvered , etc. , except those simply rolled or hammered or oxided .....
stuck on paper , cardboard, plastic materials and similar supports
Tubes , pipes and hollow bars of aluminium alloys , rolled , hot-forged ( spun) , draw , welded , butt-joined , riveted, fastened, or otherwise obtained , straight and of uniform thickness , with an unworked surface or other, or shaped
Magnesium or magnesium alloys unworked : ingots, oakes , billets

Rate of Duty ad valorem
20% 20%
20 20% 20%
207 20%
20% 25%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A837

SCHEDULE · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1366A 1366B 13660 Ex 1367 Ex 1368 1369 1370
1371B

Chapter 79
ZINC AND ZINC ALLOYS.
Zino , urworked :
rough lumps (ingots , blocks , cathodes , eto. , pellets , powder) .
dust of zino ......
waste and scraps of manufacture ...
Wire , solid bars and profiles ( sections ) of zino, simply rolled , hot-forged (spun) or dram ....
Zinc leaves , slabs , sheets and bands , with an urworked surface
Zinc thin leaves and bands, plain or goffered, whether or not cut or perforated, with or without inset ..........
Tubes, pipes , hollow bars of zino , rolled , hot-forged (spun) , drawn , welded , buttjoined , riveted or fastened , or otherwise obtained, straight and of uniform thickness , or shaped
Alloys of zinc , urworked : waste and scraps of manufacture

Rate of Duty ad valorem
15% 15% Free 16% 16% 167
167 Free

1376A

Chapter 80 LEAD AND LEAD ALLOYS. Lead or lead alloys , unworked : ingots, rough lumps , blocks , pigs , plates and rods:

A838

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1376B Ex 1377 Ex 1378
1380

of non-alloy lead :
argentiferous
not argentiferous
of alloy lead .......
waste and scraps of manufacture ...
Wire, solid bars and profiles ( sections) of non-alloy lead .......
Slabs , sheets and bands of lead or lead alloys, not cut or out in a square or rectangular form, not channelled ar grooved, or curved or perforated . Leadshot ....

Rate of Duty ad valorem
Free 10% 10% Free 20%
18% 18%

Chapter 81

TIN AND TIN ALLOYS.

Tin or tin alloys , urworked :

1382A

ingots, rough lumps , blocks , pigs, plates,

rods .....

Free

13828

waste and scraps of manufacture .....

Free

1383

Wire , solid bars and profiles (sections) of

tin or tin alloys:

of non-alloy tin .......

10%

of alloy tin .................

12%

1384

Plates , slabs , sheets and bands of tin ar

tin alloys:

of non-alloy tin .....

10%

of alloy tin

12%7

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A839

SCHEDULE XI- FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1385
1387

Description of Products
Thin leaves and bands of tin or tin alloys , plain or goffered , whether or not out or perforated , with or without inset
Tubes , pipes and hollow bars of tin or tin alloys , rolled, hot-forged (spun) , drawn, welded , butt-joined , riveted or fastened, or otherwise obtained , straight and of uniform thickness or shaped

1388A
1388B 1388C 1388D 1388E
13898 1389D 1390A

Chapter 82 OTHER BASE METALS AND THEIR
ALLOYS . Tungsten or tungsten alloys :
urworked : powder rough lumps , waste and scraps of manufacture .......
bars, rods , wire and filaments .... small plates leaves and bands ..... capsules and contacts Molybdenum and molybdenum alloys : bars, rods , wire , filaments leaves and bands ..... Tantalum and tantalum alloys : urworked :

Rate of Duty ad valorem
12%
10%
35% 20% 24% 247 247 24% 197 19%

A840

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1390B 13900 Ex 1391A
1393A 1393B 13930 1394B 1396A

Description of Products

powder

rough lumps , waste and scraps of manufacture

bars and wire ....

small plates , leaves and bands ......

Cadmium, unworked : ingots , rods and oathodes ....

Cobalt and cobalt alloys :

products of the first smelting ( cast ,

matte, speiss ) .....

........

refined in rough lumps , waste and scraps of manufacture

worked (rolled , hot-forged ( spun) , Drawn , etc. )

Chromium and chromium alloys , worked (rolled , hot-forged (spun) , drawn, etc. ) ............

Bismuth and bismuth alloys , crude , waste and scraps of manufacture ·

Rate of Duty ad valorem 35% 15% 357 35,* Free
Free Free 15%
157 Free

Chapter 83
METALLIC STRUCTURES ; VATS AND TANKS ; METALLIC WRAPPINGS ; CABLES , WIRE NETTING , LATTICE-WORK AND TRELLIS ; CHAINS ; SPRINGS ; TACK AND NAILMAKERS ' WARES , BOLT AND SCREW-
MAKERS WARES.
Metallic structures of iron or steel (bridges , girders , blinds , standards , stays, roofs, balconies , railways , bearings , bars, tomb fencings , flower-bed or lawn fencings , barriers , latticed panels , hot-houses , frames , kiosks , marquees , verandahs , henhouses , rabbit-warrens , bird cages , etc. ) and their processed parts :

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A841

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1399A 1399B Ex 1401 Ex 1403
Ex 1405A Ex 1405B
Ex 1406 Ex 1408
1409

Description of Products
weighing more than 5 kg. per linear meter or more than 25 kg. per square meter
other .....
Pipe accessories (couplings , elbows , joints , sockets , flanges , etc. ) of light metals or their alloys ....
Tanks, cisterns , tuns , vats and other similar receptacles , without any insulating or heating device , with a capacity of more than 50 litres , of iron or of steel other than stainless , without internal linings or with inner linings other than of ebonite
Casks , drums ( " tongues" ) , kegs , cans and tins , of sheet iron , for packing goods , with or without stopper or cover :
milk cans with a capacity of more than 18 litres , of iron or steel other than stainless
other, of iron or steel , with a thickness of:
more than 1,5 m.m.
0,5 m.m. and less
Rigid cases 11 spun " (for pharmacy , perfumery, eto. ) with or without cover , of light metals or their alloys ......
Flexible tubes for packing purposes , without stopper or with metallic stopper , of light metals or their alloys ...
Metallic stoppers , with or without neck, with or without parts of other materials:
of iron or steel:

Rate of Duty ad valorem 18% 18% 20%
18%
20% 20% 20% 20% 20%

A842

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1411 1413
1415

Description of Products
mechanical stoppers ......
screw stoppers or other
of light metals or their alloys : tearable capsules ... screw stoppers and other
of other base metals ......
Overcap capsules (of any base metals )
Cables, plaits , slings , strops and loading nets (with or without core of other materials ):
of iron or steel wire ......
of copper or copper alloy wire :
entirely of copper or copper alloy wire
of copper or copper alloy wire and of steel wire
of light metals or light metal alloy wire or of other base metal wire ........
Wire netting and wire fabrics (plain, twilled , chain-stitched ( "chainettes" ) ) , in rolls or panels , cut or not:
of iron or steel wire of copper or copper alloy wire of nickel or nickel alloy wire ....... of light metals or light metal alloy wire, of other base metal wire ...

Rate of Duty ad valorem 187 18%
207, 20% 20% 20%
22%
19% 22% 22%
22% 20% 22% 20% 22%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT . 30, 1947

A843

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued )

French Tariff Item No. Ex 1419A
Ex 14198
14190 Ex 1420A
1420B

Description of Products
Transmission chains :
link chains of a single piece (forged, welded or moulded , of sheet or wire), with or without adjunction of bolts or other pieces , entirely of cast-iron, iron or steel other than stainless , unworked, polished , oxided, varnished , or coated with zino , tin, lead or copper ......
link-chains with joint axles , tubes ar rivets (roller link-chains , tubular, noiseless , Gall system and the like ) , entirely of cast-iron, iron or steel other than stainless , unworked , polished , oxided , varnished , covered with zinc, tin, lead, copper ...
parts and components thereof
Chains and small chains other than transmission:
chains not assembled , of cast iron , of iron or steel other than stainless
ohains, assembled

Ex 1423A 1425
Ex 1428 Ex 1432
Ex 14+34

Leaf springs (including detached leaves ) , of steel : suspension springs for vehicles .....

Tacks and nailmakers ' wares (of any base metal) .......

Protectors and plates for boots, of cast iron,

iron or steel

....

Bolt and screwmakers ' wares not threaded (rivets , axles , washers , pins , keys , etc. ) , of iron or steel other than stainless .......
Bolt and screwmakers' wares with metal threading (metal screws , rods , bolts , nuts , hooks , etc. ), or iron or steel other than stainless.

$

Rate of Duty ad valorem
15%
15% 15%
20% Duty of chains not assembled according to the kind (No.1420A)
20% 20% 22% 17% 17%

A844

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued )

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorem

Chapter 8

TOOLS AND HAND-TOOLS ; KNIVES : ARTICLES FOR DOMESTIC USES ; IRONMONGERY AND LOCK-
SMITHING.

Agricultural and horticultural tools :

1435A

forks and prongs , with handles or not ......

1435B

shovels , with or without handles

14350

mattocks and picks with or without handles ...

1435D 14353

cutting edge tools ( axes and hatchets , machetes, pruning-hooks , bill-hooks , wedges , etc. ) with or without handles
scythes and sickles , with or without handles..

1435F

hedge-clippers , tree-pruners , fruit-pickers and the like , with or without handles ......

1435G 1435H

curry combs ......
gardening tools and other agricultural tools not elsewhere specified or included ........

Craft tools :

1436B

hand-saws :
wood saws , saws for metal or other materials , fitted and metallic fittings without blades

saw blades ....

 .360 1436D 1436E

anvils of all kinds smiths' wares .... pliers, pincers and the like

1436F

wrenches , including accessories and components ....

18% 18% 18%
187 18% 18% 18% 18%
15% Bee No.16540
18% 18%7 187 157

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A845

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
1436G 1436H 14361 Ex 1436J
Ex 1437
1438A 1438D
1438G 1439C Ex 1443B

Description of Products
files and rasps , with or without handles , including rough shapes
woodborers , augers and gimlets .....
cutting tools not elsewhere specified or included ......
other tools , not elsewhere specified or included (trowels , shovels , glazier's diamonds , screw-drivers , clamps , centrepunches, points , awls , soldering irons , butcher's steels , etc. ) , with or without handles , of cast iron , iron or steel other than stainless .........
Domestic tools (flat-irons , curling-tongs , waffle-irons , stove -hooks , fire- tongs , tinopeners , corkscrews , crown-cork openers , nut-crackers , etc. ) , entirely of metal or with handles (or handholds ) , of common wood , earthenware or glass : of cast iron, of iron or steel other than stainless .......
Hand mechanical tools for crafts :
vies and cramps and parts thereof ........
breast-drills , bit-holders , drillbraces , hand -drills , sawscts , accessories and parts thereof , except tool holders
other articles ( trimmers , stand-knives , etc. ) .....
Hand mechanical tools for domestic use: meat juice presses , fruit presses , vegetable presses , chip-cutters and parts thereof ..
Safety razor blades , other (finished , excluding rough shapes and thin plates for blades )

Rate of Duty ad valorem 18% 18% 18
187
18%7 15% 15% 18% 18% 20%,

95347 0- 49- pt. 5- -54

A846

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No. Ex 1450
Ex 1452
Ex 1453A 1453B
1454A 1454B 14540 1454D Ex 1455

Description of Products
Spoons, forks and similar articles (ladles , leg of mutton holders , tart slicers , fish slices , asparagus-tongs , sugar-tongs , table steels , etc. ) with handle of base metal , gilt or silvered
Spoons, forks and similar articles (ladles , leg of mutton holders , tart slicers , fish slices , asparagus tongs , sugar tongs , etc. ) of a single piece , gilt or silvered ........
Household articles , articles of hygiene and for domestic and professional use , and parts thereof , of cast iron :
sanitary articles (baths and other) enamelled
other articles (stew pans , saucepans , cauldrons, troughs , etc. ) , enamelled or not ..... ··
Houschold articles , articles of hygiene and for domestic and professional use , and parts thereof, of iron or steel :
articles made of sheet iron or steel ....
articles made of wire , lattice -work , wire netting or trellis ......
articles made of iron or steel bands ar hoops
other articles ..
Household articles , articles of hygiene and for domestic and professional use , and parts thereof , of copper or copper alloys , gilt or silvered
Household articles , articles of hygiene and for domestic and professional use , and parts thereof , of light metals or alloys of light metals :

Rate of Duty ad valorem
22% 25
22% 187
20 187 18 18% 20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A847

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1456A 1456B 1458
1473A 1473B
1474A 1474B

Description of Products
cast articles other
Household articles , articles of hygiene and for domestic and professional use, and parts thereof , of other base metals and their alloys ....
Locks , with or without keys : locks without tumbler or with one or two tumblers ............
safety locks and bolts
Padlocks , with or without keys : padlocks without tumbler or with one or two tumblers
safety padlocks

Rate of Duty ad valorem 23% 23%
20%
22 20%
22 20%

Chapter 85
METALLIC FURNITURE ; LIGHTING AND HEATING ARTICLES ; METAL ARTICLES FOR ORNAMENT; BUCKLES ; METAL ARTICLES OF HABERDASHERY; FASTENERS ; MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES OF METAL

Strong boxes and other security furniture , whether or not with parts of concrete :

1476A

safes , strong-chests of sheet iron or

steel , of more than 3 mm thickness ..............

20%

1476B

reinforced doors and compartments for

strong rooms ; safety shutters ; fire-

proof doors

20%

14760

safety boxes , chests and collecting boxes ,

drawers with automatic closing , entered

separately ....

20%

A848

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
14774 1477B 1478 1479
Ex 1480B 1480C 1480D 14818 1482
Ex 1484
1485A 1485B 14850 1485D

Description of Products
Office equipment , metal :
index files , card-indexes , filing and sorting boxes ......
other (baskets , planning , sheet-holders , eto.)
Shelves with fixed or mobile slides; removable partitions
Metal ladders and step- ladders
Metal furniture :
seats , not padded
kitchen and pantry dressers .......
other (cupboards , writing tables , counters , tables , vestiaries , stands , etc. ) ......
Safety lamps for miners ....... Lamps , chandeliers , bracket lamps , standard lamps and other lighting apparatus , not electrically fitted , parts of lighting apparatus other than burnera (bases , reservoirs, lantern frames , reflectors , shades , holders , etc. ) of any base metal whether or not gilt or silvered , with ar without parts of other materials .........
Burners for gas , acetylene and the like, simple burners
Kitchen ranges , stoves , heaters , cookers and other domestic and kitchen heating apparatus , not electric , parts and components :
solid fuel apparatus
liquid fuel apparatus
gas fuel apparatus
parts and components thereof

X

2 * 2

Rate of Duty ad valorem
20%
18%
20% 22% 20% 20% 20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 39, 1947

A849

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No. Ex 14860
1489 1491 1492 1493 Ex 1494
1506 Ex 1511
Ex 1515A 1515B 15150 1517A

Description of Products
Ornamental articles of cast iron , iron or steel , not gilt or silvered , other , of iron or steel other than stainless
Ornamental articles of any base metals , gilt or silvered ........
Small bucklesmith's articles ( for clothing, equipment , Morocco leather trade , travelling requisites ) .....
Eyelets and hooks , tubular or divided rivets , tags
Clasps and holders
Hand sewing needles , hand embroidering crochet hooks , hand knitting needles and pins , bodkins , netting needles , pins for badges and the like , rough-cut or finished , of base metals or plastic materials reinforced with metal , having a length of more than 5 cm. ....
Magnets ......
Spectacle cases and the like , not covered , without interior lining , of iron or steel other than stainless , urworked , polished , varnished, painted , coated with zinc (galvanised) , tin or copper .....
Articles of iron or steel not elsewhere specified or included :
articles of sheet metal , bands and hoops , of iron and steel other than stainless .....
articles of wire , lattice work , wire netting or trellis ....
other articles
Articles of aluminium and alloys of aluminium, not elsewhere specified or included

Rate of Duty ad valorem
22% 22% 18% 20% 20%
12% 20%
22%
25% 25% 25% 20%

A850

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1520
1524A 1524B
1527A 1527B 1528
1529A Ex 1529B
1530

Description of Products
Chapter 86
BOILERS : MOTORS ; THERMICn HYDRAULIC AND PNEUMATIC MACHINES.
Auxiliary apparatus and accessories of boilers not elsewhere specified or included .....
Reciprocating steam engines , with or without speed reducing gear :
combined engines with their generators ....
engines without generators
Explosion or injection motors with pistons , for cars and motor cycles :
explosion motors with spark ignition ...... other motors .....
Aircraft motors with pistons , with a nominative power on the ground of :
lesa than 200 HP ......
200 HP and over but under 2,200 HP
2,200 HP and more ..
Other explosion and injection motors with pistons (stationary motors and marine engines ):
explosion motors with spark ignition ......
other motors , with a unit weight of 100,000 kg. and less ......
Reaction propulsion units (turbo-reactors, turbo-propellers , stato-reactors , generators with free pistons , rockets with chemical reaction, etc. )

........

Rate of Duty ad valorem
18%
20% 20%
30% 30%
35% 10% 5%
15% 18%
15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A851

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
15320
1534A 1534B
1535A 1535B 15350
1536A 1536B 15360
2537A

Description of Products
Other power engines not elsewhere specified or included, other ..... Hand pumps :
pumps for liquids ......
air pumps and vacuum pumps Pumps for liquids , without motor , with mechanical control:
centrifugal pumps ......
piston and diaphragm pumps ......
volumetrical rotary pumps (with pistons, vanes, gears , screws , etc. ) .......
Motor pumps for liquids: electro-pumps ...... piston pumps , not electrical , with direct action
other
Air and gas compressors (including compressors for refrigerating apparatus , entered separately) , vaouum pumps , without motor, with mechanical control :
reciprocating compressors and vacuum pumps, with pistons or diaphragm , weighing per unit:
more than 25,000 kg.....
1,000 kg. exclusive to 25,000 kg. inclusive ...
250 k. exclusive to 1,000 kg. inclusive
250 kg. and less

Rate of Duty ad valorem 20% 15% 15%
157 15% 157 15% 15% Duties relating to each element
8 10% 12% 15%

A852

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No,
1537B
1537C
1538A

Description of Products
volumetrical rotary compressors and vacuum pumps (with paired pistons , vanes, liquid rings , revolving pistons , etc. ) weighing per unit :
more than 1,000 k. 250 kg. exclusive to 1,000 kg. inclusive ......
250 kg. and less ....
vacuum compressors and pumps , centrifugal and other
Motor-compressor and motor vacuum pump sets :
reciprocating compressors and vacuum pumps :
stationary (on stand or tray ) , with or without accessories ( tanks , etc. ) , with electric motor or other , weighing per unit :
more than 25,000 k . 2,000 kg . exclusive to 25,000 kg. inclusive .....
500 kg. exclusive to 2,000 k. inclusive ....
500 kr. and less
movable ( on carriage ) , with or without accessories ( tanks , etc. ) , with electric motor or other , weighing per unit :

Rate of Duty ad valorem
10% 12% 157 Duties of volumetrical , rotary compressors , according to the category , (No.1537B)
8 10% 12 157

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A853

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1538B
1538C
1539A 1539B 15390 Ex 1539D

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorem

more than 2,000 kg. 2,000 kg . and less
volumetrical rotary compressors and vacuum pumps :
stationary (on stand or tray) , with or without accessories (tanks , etc. ) , with electric motor or other , weighing per unit :
more than 2,000 kg. 2,000 kg. and less movable (on carriage) , with or without accessories ( tanks , etc. ) , with electric motor or other , weighing per unit :
more than 2,000 kg. 2,000 k. and less .... compressors and vacuum pumps , centrifugal and other .....
Parts of steam engines , turbines , motors , propulsion units , pumps and compressors :
blades , bladings and rotors spindles and buckets of hydraulic turbines .................
cylinders .... cylinder-blocks , crank cases , cylinderheads , pump and compressor barrels :

10% 157
12% 15%
12% 15% Duties of volumetrical rotary compressors , according to the kind and category (No.1538B)
15% 15% 15%

A854

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
15393 1539F 1539G
1539H 15391

Description of Products
for car and motor cycle engines ..... other :
of cast iron ....... of steel other than stainless of stainless steel ..... of copper or copper alloys .... of light metal or light metal alloys ...... pistons : for car and motor cycle engines other cylinder sleeves : for car and motor cycle engines other rods : for car and motor cycle engines ...... other : of steel ...... of light metals or their alloys and other orank-shafts , pump axles , camshafts: for car and motor cycle engines ... other piston rings

Rate of Duty ad valorem 30%
15% 10% 15% 15% 15%
30% 15%
30% 15%
30%
10% 15%
30% 10% 15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A855

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1539J 1539K 1539L
1539M 1539N 15390
1539P 15390

Description of Products
valves , clacks, and similar articles of metal .....
carburettors and similar organs , their parts and components .....
oil pumps , water pumps and turbines , feeding pumps , suction pipes , petrol elevators , economizers , oil-purifiers , oil-filters , and parts :
for car and motor cycle engines ...
other
injectors , injector-holders , injection pumps , and their parts ....................
pressure regulators
non-electrical starters (hand starters, hydraulic starters , compressed-air starters, etc. ) ......
sets of various joints put up in pouches or similar packing ..
special accessories and detached parts for reaction propulsion units ........

1539R

other parts , not elsewhere specified or included

1540A 1540B

Ventilators without motor , with or without block motion:
centrifugal volute ventilators ...... helicoidal ventilators

Rate of Duty ad valorem
10%
20%
25% 15%
15 157
15%
20% Dutiable as reaction propulsion units (No. 1530) Dutiable as parts of general mechanics , actording to the kind (Chapter 91 )
20% 20%

A856

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1541A 15418 Ex 1544
1547A 1547B 1547C 1547D Ex 1549
1550
1552A 15528 1554B

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorem

Ventilators with motor (electrical or other):

centrifugal volute ventilators ......

20%

industrial helicoidal ventilators ......

20%

Air or gas filters and parts , weighing per

unit 5 kg. and loss ........

30%

Industrial ovens , bricked or not :

furnace ovens , automatic or not ......

18%

burner ovens ....

187

electric ovens , with resistance , aro,

plunging electrodes and other ........

20%

parts of ovens ..

20%

Apparatus and appliances not elsewhere

specified or included , for heating, coolding,

torrefying , distilling , rectifying ,

refining , sterilising , evaporating , vaporising , condensing , cooling and other

similar operations necessitating a change

of temperature , and their detached parts,

containing less than 50% of copper or

light metals , or their alloys , or

stainless steel ....

79

Refrigerating furniture , ready for use

(chests , preserving boxes , refrigerated

counters , refrigerating shop-windows,

refrigerated fountains , etc. ) ....

15%

Refrigerating equipment with its constituent parts fixed on a common base:

compression equipment ..

57

other (absorbing machines , reabsorbing

machines , evaporating machines , etc. ) ..

55

Other thermic , hydraulic and pneumatic

machines and apparatus , not elsewhere

specified or included , other

22%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A857

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorem

Chapter 87
MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR HOISTING AND HANDLING ; MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR EXTRACTING AND DIGGING : MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR BRUISING , SCREENING AND AGGLOMERATING MINERAL MATERIALS : MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR THE CERAMIC INDUSTRY GLASS -MAKING , IRON SMELTING
AND CASTING.

Hoists , lifts , lowering apparatus , skips and their components :

1555A

hydraulic apparatus ....

9%

1555B

electrical apparatus , weighing per unit:

more than 10,000 kg. .....

15%

5,000 kg. exclusive to 10,000 kg.

inclusive

167

2,000 kg. exclusive to 5,000 kg.

inclusive ...

18

2,000 kg. and less ...

207

1555C

other apparatus ......

1555D

parts and components ( safety stops ,

"ruelles" , etc. )

18%

Winches and capstans , and their parts :

1556A

hand -winches .....

9%

1556B

electric winches

18%

15560

other

9%

1556D

parts and components .....

18%

1557 Travelling cranes , swing-bridges for locomotives,

transporter-bridges for trucks , coke fillers ,

cokc pushers , strippers , monorails and bi-rails

for servicing

9%

A858

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1558A 1558B 1559 1560
1562A 1562B 1562C 1563
1564A
1564B 15640

Description of Products
Cranes :
stationary cranes mobile cranes
Gantry cranes and barrows
Grab-buckets , grabs , grab-hooks , and similar gear, entered separately or with their hoisting apparatus :
with electric engines
other
Lifting jacks and screw jacks:
mechanical apparatus
hydraulic apparatus .....
other apparatus (pneumatic , electric , etc. ) ..... Pulley-blocks and tackle-blocks , entered separately or with their hoisting apparatus :
eleotric
other .... Mechanical conveyors with incessant action , other than by cables :
conveyors with endless device (apronfeed , with flexible bands , scrapers, buckets , mechanical staircases , etc. ) or with a jigging device , or vibrators
mobile shovellers
other apparatus

Rate of Duty ad valorem
97
187 97 97 970 18%
15%
9% 9%

**

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A859

SCHEDULE - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1565
1567A 1567B
1568A 1568B 15680
13680 15683 1568H
1569A 1569B

Description of Products

Rate af Duty ad valorem

Overhead conveyors on cables ;

telefers .....

9%

Hoisting and handling apparatus not elsewhere specified or included :

balanced fire-escapes

other (wagon-pushers , tipping apparatus

for wagons , etc. )

9 %

Extracting , exoavating apparatus and appliances for preparing the soil :

mechanical shovels , excavators ,

chargera ....................

16%

hewing machines , "railleteuses"

16%

scourers ( "decapeurs" ) , pioneers,

rollers ("rouleaux pieds de mouton") ,

tempers , levellers , flattening

machines .. ...............

26%

drilling and boring apparatus ....

16%

walking bells ( " sormettes de battage" )...

167

other machines and apparatus ....

16%

Simple machinery and apparatus for arushing , bruising, pulverising , not elsewhere
specified or included, components and parts :

machines and apparatus with jaws , balls

or hammers .....

167

other machines and apparatus ; parts

and components ....

167

Machinery and apparatus for sieving , sorting, classifying , washing , freeing from dust, not elsewhere specified or included , their parts and components :

A860

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued)

Prench Tariff Item No
1570A 1570B 1570C 1570D 1570E 1571 1572
1573
1574A 1574B 1575

Description of Products
mechanical and hydraulic apparatus .....
pneumatic apparatus ............ electrostatic apparatus magnetic aorters
other apparatus ; parts and components .
Mixers and malaxators , not elsewhere specified or included , parts and components ... Centrifugal machinery and apparatus (separators , purifiers , etc. ) , not elsewhere specified or included , their parts and components :
complete apparatus , weighing per unit: more than 250 kg. .... 250 kg. and less
parts and components
Filter presses , with or without pumps , not elsewhere specified or included ...... Presses, not elsewhere specified or included :
hydraulic presses other .... Machinery and apparatus for shaping , moulding, agglomerating , casting, for moulding solid fuels , ceramic pastes , plaster, concrete , for making foundry sand moulds

Rate of Duty ad valorem 16% 16% 167 167 16%
187
187 Duty of ore an separators (No.1596B) Duty of parts and components of oream separators (No.1596B)
187
167 16%
15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A861

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1576A
15768 · 15760
1578A 1578B 15780
1579A 15798 15790 1580 1581

Description of Products
Rolling-mills and calenders :
hot or cold rolling-mills and trains of hot or cold rolling-mills other than tube rolling-mills , including manipulation and handling implements (manipulators , sliders , rolling tables , cooling tables , etc. ) entered with the rolling -mills
calenders for any purposes (for fabrics , paper, rubber , artificial leather , plastic materials , etc. ) ....
accessories and components
Machinery and apparatus for the preparation of concrete , their parts and components :
concrete mixers
concrete-vibrators
other machines and apparatus ; parts and components .....
Machinery and apparatus for the preparation of asphalt , bitumen , tarmacadams , tars and auxiliary apparatus , their parts and components:
boilers , melting apparatus , " joints a temps" ......
coating apparatu
other machines and apparatus ; parts and components .....
Machinery and apparatus for coking plants and gas-works , their parts and components...
Machinery and apparatus not elsewhere specified or included , for the ceramic industry

Rate of Duty ad valorem
15% 157 15%
18% 18% 18%
187 18% 18% 18% 187

95347 0 --49 - pt. 5- -55

A862

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1582A 15828 15820 1582D
15823
1584A 1584B 15840 1584D 1584E 1584F

Description of Products

Machinery not elsewhere specified or included for glass -making :
machines for the manufacture of flat glass (window glass , plate glass , etc. ) ..
machines for the finishing of plate glass .....

machines for the manufacture of glass fibres ......

machines for the manufacture of hollow glass from pasty or liquid glass :
machines for the manufacture of bulbs for electric lamps

other

machines for the shaping by heat of hollow

glass or glass tubes , and other glass-

making apparatus ......

..........

Machinery and apparatus not elsewhere specified or included for iron smelting , foundries , steel-works , metallurgy, their parts and components:

smelting cupola, ladles for cast-iron, stationary or típ mixers ..........................

pressure casting apparatus ...

traction winding benches ...... machines for the manufacture of tubes ...

blast-pipes and tymps
other machines and apparatus (machines for stopping-up tapping holes , apparatus for iron pigs or other vat-trucks for slags, casting ladles rolling over mechanically, devices for breaking pigs, tumbling-drums with or without exhausting appliances , etc. ) .....

Rate of Duty ad valorem
16% 16% 18%
187 16% 16%
15% 15%7 15% 15% 15%
15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A863

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1588A 1588B 1588C 1588D
15881 1588F 1589
1590A 1590B 1590C 1590D 15903 1590F

Chapter 88
MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOR THE FOOD INDUSTRIES.
Machinery and appliances for preparing and draining the soil :
grubbers , planters and similar apparatus, and their components ........
disc apparatus and their components .....
ploughs other than disc-ploughs and similar apparatus , and their components..
cultivators and similar apparatus , including " Canadian-harrows " , and their components .....
harrows (except "Canadian-harrows" ) and similar apparatus , and their components..
rollers and similar apparatus , and their components Seed-drills and fertilizer distributors ....
Harvesting and hay-making machinery:
mowing and swath-laying machines .......
reaping and binding machines ....
reaping and threshing machines .....
hay-malding apparatus and similar apparatus .....
trussing machines .....
other machines (swath apparatus , auxiliary reaping apparatus , swathturners , sheaf-bearer wheels ) and detached parts of the above apparatus , except parts of threshing machines ..............

Rate of Duty ad valorem
1976 15% 157 15% 15% 15% 15% 15% 15% 12% 15% 15%
15%

A864

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorem

Material for threshing and pressing:

1591A 1591B 1591C
1592A

grain threshers (cereals and seeds ) .......
straw and fodder presses .....
accessories for threshers , entered separately (elevators , sheaf-hoisters , mill-hoppers, husk biowers , straw collectors , etc.) .....
Apparatus and implements for vegetable treatment and protection, and similar apparatus (sprayers, powder-sprinklers , etc. ) , their parts and components :
hand apparatus and implements : (blowers , syringes , water-hose nozzles , etc. )

1592B 1592C

apparatus carried on the back , packsaddle or hand-cart (sulphurators , powder-sprinklers , sprayers , etc. ) ........
other apparatus with engines (selfpropellers , etc. ) ......

1592D 1593A

parts and components
Apparatus for aviculture and agriculture , not elsewhere specified or cluded , their parts and components :
poultry incubators of any system , including electric apparatus , and their components...

1593B 1594A 1594B

other
Farming implements , not elsewhere specified or included , their parts and components :
apparatus for preparing animal foodstuffs and similar apparatus (grain-crushers , machines for chopping straw, root-cutters , mixers , etc. ) and parts
fodder unloaders , of any system, ensilaging apparatus , manure carriers and components.

15% 15% 15%
15% 15% 15% 15%
15% 15%
157 15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT . 30, 1947

A865

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (CONTINUED)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorem

1594C

other (automatic watering-troughs , seed-beds ,

etc)...

15%

Other appliances for agriculture , not elsewhere specified or included :

1595A

egg , - fruit , - tuber - sorting apparatus...

15%

1595B

other (winnowing machines , etc ) ............

15%

Machines and apparatus for dairy-farming and dairy produce :

1596A

milking machines (milking pots ) and compon-

ents......

15%

1596B

cream separators and components.....

157

15960

pasteurisers continuous operation ) and

components ...

15%

1596D

churns , churn-mixers , with or without

carriage, and parts.....

15%

Apparatus for wine and cider-making :

1597A

grape , cider, fruit juice presses ,

accessories , parts and components..

10%

1597C

apparatus for wine and cider making

(wine-presses , wine-presses with pump .

stalk removing machines , drainers ,

crumbling apparatus , grape drying apparatus)

parts and components.....

10%

15973

other apparatus , parts and components....

10%

1600 Machines and apparatus for bakers , and pastry-

cooks, biscuit-making, the manufacture of

alimentary pastes , tapioca - (and the like) ,

parts and components

18

1601 Machines and apparatus for making confection-

ery, chocolate , and for the preparation of

cocoa, and their components ......

18%

A866

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE

PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorem

1602 Machines and apparatus for butchers, pork-

butchers , drysalting , meat working , the prepar-

ation of preserves , and their components .....

16

1603

Machines and apparatus for the preparation of

edible oils and fats , including margarine , and

components

18-

1604

Machines and apparatus for sugar-making, refining,

distilling , and components ......

77

1605

Machines and apparatus for malting , brewing , and

components ............. .

15%

1606

Other machines and apparatus for food industries ,

and components .....

18%

Ex 1610 1614A
Ex 1614B 1615B

Chapter 89
MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES , PAPER-MAKING AND PRINTING , TEXTILE INDUSTRY FOR LEATHER , HIDES AND SKINS ; MACHINES AND APPARATUS
FOR MAKING -UP

Other machines and apparatus for chemical industries .
and components , containing less than 50 p.100 of copper or light metals , or their alloys , or stainless steel...

Machines for the working of paper and cardboard;

machines and apparatus for stitching and book-

binding ( including wire-stitching machines ) and

components ..

167

other (machines for shaping , trimming , cutting,

setting eyelet-holes , clipping , etc) not

elsewhere specified or included , other (except

"platinc presses " ) and components ...

16%

Printing machines :

typographic machines for printing in blank , called "two revolutions " ( double revolving cylinder) , with or without feeders , gummers

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A867

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE

PART I (Continued )

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorem

cutters , folders , stitchers....

10%

Ex 1615C

other presses and printing machines of any

system and for any kind of printing , with or

without feeders , gumers , cutters , folders , stitchers: for printing on paper , card ,

cardboard, wood , metal , plastic material ,

glass .....

187

1615D

components of printing machines..

18%

Accessory machines and apparatus for the printing trade :

1616A

feeders , folders , ream-transporters and lifters ,

and their components....

18%

1616B

other ( stickers , cutters , stitchers , etc. )

and components ....

18%

Material and apparatus for making cliches for

stereotyping , galvanoplastic works and for any

photomechanical process (except photographic

apparatus):

1617A

type casting and setting machines ( linotype , monotype , intertype , eto ) , parts and components

complete apparatus....

5

parts and components :

type moulds and discs ................

15%

other .....

55

Ex 1617C

printing types and other movable types for

printing , of metal .......

209

Machines and apparatus for the preparation of textile materials , parts and components :

1619A

oards, undressed and auxiliary apparatus

for cards , except sheets and fillets of

cards.......

187

16198

hackling machines and gill machines :

wool hackling machines..

187

other

157

A868

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
1619C 1619D
1620A 16208 16200
1621A
16218 16210
16224 1622B Ex 1624B 1625A
1626B Ex 1626E

Description of Products
other machines and apparatus (for cleaning , opening , drying, etc. ) .......
accessories and components ( card dressings , combs , bars , etc. )
Spinning and twisting looms :
die spinning looms for artificial or synthetic fibres
mule machines
throstles and other ....
Machines and apparatus for supplementary operations of spinning and to prepare for weaving, parts and components :
machines for assembling, throwing , unwinding , winding , reeling yarn or thread, including cop winders ...
machines and apparatus for weaving (warp-beams, gummers , etc. ) ......
accessories and components (beams , "tavelles " , etc. ) .......
Weaving looms , including ribbon-making looms , even tubular:
non-automatic looms .
automatic looms
Circular looms for plaits and trimmings .... Jacquard machines , dobbies and other machines for weaves ( appareils d'armures)...
Accessories and components of weaving loams, hosiery looms , tulle , lace , etc. , looms and accessory apparatus:
paddles , ways, harness
other, for hosiery , tulle , lace , embroidery looms , plait, trimming , net loams ...

Rate of Duty ad valorem 18% 18%
18% 18% 18%
18% 20% 20%
18% 18% 15% 18%
18% 22%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A869

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1628A
1629
1630A 1630B 1631C Ex 1633A 1633B 1640

Description of Products
Machinery and apparatus for the dressing and finishing of textile materials and wares made of textile materials , not elsewhere specified or included : machinery and apparatus for washing , bleaching, dyeing and cleaning , parts and components :
complete machines and apparatus
accessories and components:
dyeing bobbins of light metals or alloys of light metals
other ....
Material for laundering , dyeing , scouring, dry-cleaning appliances , including cloth presses ...................
Heads of sewing machines :
domestic sewing machines , with or without electric motor .....
industrial machines
Needles for sewing machines ..
Machines and apparatus for making footwear, parts and components :
awls and needles for sewing footwear or leather ......
other machines and apparatus , parts and components ............
Machines and apparatus , not elsewhere specified or included , for packing and making-up goods , parts and components .....

Rate of Duty ad valorem
18%
22% 18% 13%
16% 12% 12%
12% 15 10%

A870

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Chapter 90 .

MACHINE TOOLS AND THEIR FITTINGS ; WEIGHING APPARATUS AND INSTRUMENTS ; OFFICE MACHINES AND APPARATUS : MACHINES AND APPARATUS NOT ELSEWHERE
SPECIFIED OR INCLUDED .

Machine tools working by the removal of metal :

1641A

sliding lathes , weighing per unit:

more than 5,000 kg.

1641B

5,000 kg. and less .. semi-automatic turret lathes ...

16410

automatic lathes

1641D 1641E

vertical lathes other lathes ......

1641F 1641G

screw-cutting and tapping machines ................. boring machines , weighing per unit:

more than 10,000 kg. 10,000 kg. and less

1641H

planing machines , weighing per unit:

16411

more than 10,000 kg. 10,000 kg. and less shaping machines , weighing per unit,

more than 3,000 kg. 3,000 kg. and less

1641J

slotting machines

4999

Rate of Duty ad valorem
14% 18% 12.5% 12.5% 6%
6% 6%
6% 14%
6% 14%
6% 14% 6%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30 , 1947

A871

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I (Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
1641K
16411
164.1M
1641N 16410 1641P 16410 1641R
1642A

Description of Products
milling-cutting machines :
not specialised (horizontal , vertical , with swivelling head) , weighing per unit :
more than 5,000 kg.
5,000 kg. and less
specialised (reproducing machines , machines for milling dies , grooves , etc. ) .....
drilling machines :
radial
other
machines for rectifying , edge-setting (sharpening) , grinding , polishing , lapping, dressing and surface planing, working by means of grindstones , abrasions and polishing products :
without micrometrical setting system
with micrometrical setting system ..
embossing machines ...
Jig-boring machines
gear-cutting machines
sawing and slicing machines
other (filing machines , machines for making trunnions , for engraving, dividing, etc. ) ........
Machine tools , non-hydraulic, for shaping, or reshaping metal :
draw-benches , rolling-curving-bending ; planing machines and other machines not elsewhere specified or included for shaping or reshaping ...

Rate of Duty ad valorem
14% 18% 14% 18%
6
10% 13.5% 12.5%
6% 10% 6% 671
12%

A872

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
16428 16420 164 20 164 23
1642F
1643
1645A 1645B 16450 1645D 1645F 1645G
1646A

Description of Products
shearing, punching , notching , nibbling , chamfering machines mechanical presses
forging and stamping machines
wire-drawing , dressing , folding, cambering machines , machines for making springs, weaving lattice -work and wirenetting , machines for making wire-rope and other machines for working wire
other machines for working metals (hammering-out , fastening , riveting, orimping, multiple machines for making metallic wrappings , etc. )
Hydraulic machine - tools for shaping or reshaping metal .......
Machine tools for working wood , plastic matorials , ebonite and other hard materials :
sawing machines , (with ribbon-saw, alternating-saw, circular- saw , etc. ) .....
planing and surfacing machines ......
profiling, moulding , grooving , slotting machines ; spindle-moulding machines .....
mortising and boring machines
sand papering , polishing , grinding machines
veneer-peeling and cutting machines ..... :
Accessories , parts and components of machinetools :
accessory part-holders and toolholders (for any machines and hand-tools) .

Rate of Duty ad valorem 12% 12%7 12%
6%
653 675
12% 12% 10% 12% 12% 10%
14%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A873

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
1646B 164.60
16474 164.78 16470
1648A
16488
16480

Description of Products
special fittings for mounting on machines (apparatus for boring, milling - outting , mortising, rectifying, tapping , turning , etc. ) ..
other
Portable electric machine-tools (boring , grinding , rectifying , scraping , sandpapering , glazing , screwing , bolting , tapping machines , shears , lapping machines, hammers , tube-expanding machines , borers for mines and quarries, etc. ) , parts and components :
machines in which the motor and tool constitute an inseparable whole , weighing a maximum of 70 kg. ........
machines in which the motor and tool are connected by a flexible transmission , the whole weighing a maximum of 100 kg.
parts and components , not electric , except part-holders and tool-holders .
Portable pneumatic -tools and machinetools, parts and components :
rotary pneumatic machines and tools worked by hand or driven by piston, turbine or geared engines , weighing a maximum of 50 kg. (boring , drilling , milling , cutting, brushing machines , spray-guns other than hot-metallising spray-guns) ...
pneumatic-tools worked by pressure or percussion , whether or not rotary, weighing a maximum of 100 kg. (hammer , riveting tools , chipping-tools , prickers , perforators , concretobreakers , rammers , vibrators , etc. ) ...
parts and components , excluding toolholders

Rate of Duty ad valorem
14% 14%7
10% 10% 10%
15%
15% 15%

A874

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
1649
1650
1651
1652

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorem

Centering twist drills and other boring tools , the working part of which is :

of steel

15%

of metallic carbides or cast or compressed

rare metal alloys without iron

20%

screw-taps , borers , dies , other than drawingout dies, including die bearings , comb serowing tools , and other tapping , boring and threading tools , with or without rectified profile , the working part of which is:

of steel

15%

of metallic carbides or cast or

compressed rare metal alloys , without

iron

20

Milling-cutters made in one piece or with detachable parts , broaches for embossing , gear outting knives and other milling , broaching , and cutting tools , including the main parts or units entered separately , with or without rectified profile , the working part of which is:

of steel

15%

of metallic carbides or cast or compressed

rare metal alloys without iron ...

20%

Turning tools and the like , made in one piece or with detachable working part (including treated rectified bars with a longth of less than 50 cm. ) , the working part of which is :

of steel

15%

of metallic carbides or cost or compressed

rare metal alloys without iron

20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A875

SCHEDULE X - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1653
Ex 1654A Ex 1654B
1654C
1655A 1655B 1656
1658A 1658B 1658c
1659A

Description of Products

Drawing plates :
entirely of steel with core of metallic carbides or cast or compressed rare metal alloys without iron ..

Saar blades (including rough shapes ):
circular saws with inserted teeth or rings .......

ribbon-saws for wood working ..........

straight saws (including blades for hand

 ) ........

.....

Knives and blades for machines and handtools:

circular knives

other
Other tools for machines and hand-tools , not elsewhere specified or included , the working part of which is :

of steel ..........

of metallic carbides or cast or compressed rare metal alloys without iron ......

Weighing apparatus and instruments , not automatic , with weights or with slides :

weigh bridges and stationary weighing machines .................

mobile weighing machines ..... balances (other than precision balances)

Automatic and semi-automatic weighing apparatus and instruments:

weigh bridges and stationary weighing machines

Rate of Duty ad valorem
15% 20%
15% 15% 15%
10% 18%
18 20%
20% 20% 20%
20%

A876

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No,
16598 16590 1660A Ex 1661
1662A 16628
1663A 1663B
1654A 16648
1665A

Description of Products

mobile weighing machines and balances ......

other (balances ( "pesons " ) , letter balances , etc. )

Weighing machines and apparatus recording the number of articles

Accessories ( other than weights ) and
components of weighing apparatus and instruments, of cast-iron, iron or steel other than stainless ..............

Typewriters and the like :

typewriters, proper

other machines (for cryptography, for writing music , writing machines for the

blind, for stenography or stenotyping ,

for authenticating checks , for writing

with interchangeable shuttles ( navettes ),

etc.) ........

.....

Adding and calculating machines : adding and subtracting machines

calculating machines ...
Cash registers and similar apparatus with totalization system:

cash registers , proper .....

other machines (letter stamping machines , machines for canoelling and registering public transport tickets , for stamping railway tickets , machines for "pari mutuol" , machines for voting , etc. ) ....

Statistical machines with punched cards, of any system:
punching and checking machines ....

Rate of Duty ad valorem 20% 20% 20% 10% 15%
15%
9% 10%
10% 22%

**

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A877

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
1665B 16650 1665D 1665E
1666
1670A 1670B 16700
1670D 1670E 1670F 1670G 16701 1671

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorem

sorting machines .....

22%

interclassifying machines ....

22%

tabulating machines .....

22%

other machines (reproducing machines ,

translating machines , multiplying

machines, calculating machines , etc. ) ....

22%

Duplicators and similar apparatus : with

stencils , cliches , carbon, types and

other

20%

Parts and components for office machines and apparatus :

frames and stands

15%

small boxes ......

15%

carriages for typewriters , calculating

or accounting machines

15%

keys and keyboards

15%

types .....

15%

spools for inked or impregnated ribbons ..

15%

totalization devices

15%

other components

15%

Automatic selling apparatus (automatic

machines for stamps , tickets , chocolate,

confectionery, food and the like ) , parts

and components .......

20%

95347 0-49- pt. 5- 56

A878

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorem

Chapter 91 BRASS-SMITH'S ARTICLES : BEARINGS : TRANSMISSION
GEAR: SPARE PARTS FOR GENERAL MECHANICS 1673 Automatic regulating apparatus, and parts thereof .. 20% Ex 1674 Other brass-smith's apparatus, and parts, of metal :

of cast-iron , iron or steel other than stain-

less, unworked , painted or varnished but without

coating of metal or other materials , with or

without rings , seatings , washers or nuts of other

base metals ...

18%

other (than of stainless steel ) , other ( except

those covered with ebonite)

20%

1675 Mounted or completo bearings ( ball bearings and

other) .....

28%

Parts and components of bearings:

1676A balls , needles , rollers , cylinders , and drums ,

calibrated

32%

1676B other (ball-races , rings , thrusts , etc. ) ...

28%

1677 Transmission shafts:

straight : unworked
machine-finished :

Dutiable as
bars , hotrolled or
forged, according to the kind (No.1285)

solid .....

Dutiable as calibrated bars
according to the kind (No. 1299)

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A879

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE

PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1678 Ex 1690
1692
1694
Ex 1696
1698

Description of Products

Hate of Duty ad valorom

bored.......

18%

crankshafts or beatshafts ..

18%

Gear parts (cylindrical, conical, endless screws

and wheels of endless screws ) , cogged or threaded

of metal or of other materials.... rm2 402914..

15%

Components of machines not elsewhere specified or

included, not worked or simply shaped; of cast-

iron, of iron, or steel other than stainless.......

18%

Components of machines not elsewhere specified or

included of iron or steel other than stainless,

worked, with or without accessory parts of non-

metallic materials......

18%

Components of machines not elsewhere specified or

included of copper or copper alloys , worked , with

or without accessory parts of non-metallic

materials...

20%

Components of machines not elsewhere specified or

included of aluminium or aluminium alloys, worked

with or without accessory parts of non-metallio

materials ....

20%

Components of machines not elsewhere specified or

included of two or more metals, with or without

accessory parts of non-metallic materials.....

18%

Chapter 92
GENERATORS MOTORS, ELECTRIC TRANSFORMERS AND CONVERTERS; BATTERIES; ACCUMULATORS : ELECTRIC
APPLIANCES

Generators, motors and rotary convertors:

17004

special motors for electric locomotives and rail-cars......

X

1700B

other ...

20%

A880

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE

PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorom

1701
17024 1702B 17020 1702D

Parts and components of generators, motors and rotary converters.. Transformers:
measure transformers. transformers for electric medical apparatus.....
soldering transformers ..... other transformers and reaction coils, weighing per unit:
more than 500 g....... 500 8. and less.

17034 17038 1704
17054 17050 1705D Ex 1709
1710 1723

Static converters :
converters with metal tanks, with or without their vacuum pumps....
rectifiers................
Parts and components of transformers and statio converters...........
Electro- magnetic apparatus not elsewhere specified or included :
magnetic plates and mendrels..
electro-magnetic brakes
other (magnetic clutches ) eto....
Apparatus for cutting-off or disconnecting non automatic ( contact-breakers , disconnecting switches , switchers , etc ) , for cutting in air or in gaseous medium, weighing per unit 1 kg. and less
Automatic cutting-off and disconnecting apparatus.
Fixed resistances other than heating resistances..

19%
20% 18% 20%
20% Duty of ooils (No. 17204)
20% 19%
18% 18% 18%
20% 20% 18%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A881

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE

PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1715
1718
1719 17204 1720D Ex 1721

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorom

Relays (other than measure relays) for weak currents : for statistical machines with punched cards.. for automatic telephony and other.... other......
Boards for controlling, distributing, regulating, measuring and the like, with electrical work:
without instruments or apparatus: of plastic materials or having 10 p.100 and more of the total weight in plastic materials.
other.. including one or more instruments or apparatus..
Stationary electric condensers (other than variable or adjustable)....... Electric detached parts not elsewhere specified or included:
coils of insulated wire (coils)....... other...... Insulators: of ceramic materiale: of porcelain, earthenware stoneware, pottery, with or without metal parts. of rubber, hardened or not , with or without metal parts.....

19% 15% 19%
Duties of plastic mat erials, Btohecokridnidng to
- 708709) 20% Duty on thethe
ponent trument or apparatus bearing the highest rate of duty. 18%
19% 19%
18%
20%

A882

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorem

1722 1723
1724A 17248 1724C 1724D
17254

Insulating tubes and connections of base metals,

insulated on the inside..............................................................

224

Unassembled parts of insulating materials, for electric machinery, apparatus and installations:

of ceramic materials : porcelain, eartherware,

stoneware, pottery.......

20%

of rubber, hardened or not, other (except

boxes, covers and accessories for accumal-

atore and electric batteries ) ......

20%

Insulated wire and cables for electric purposes with metallic coverings or reinforced with metali

wire and cables, insulated by means of

plastic materials, even with other added

materials.............................

22%

wire and cables, insulated by means of natural or artificial rubber, balata or gutta perchs, even with other added materials, other than plastic materials...........
wire and cables, insulated by means of cellulose pulp, paper or textile materials other than silk, floss silk (schappe ) and synthetic fibres....

Duty of cables and wire, insulated with plastic mater ials(No.17244)

other (wire and cables insulated by means of magnesia, asbestos, silk, floss silk (schappe), synthetic fibres, glass fibre, eto. pure or mixed in any proportion with other materials)

Insulated wire and cables for electric purposes, without metal coverings and not reinforced with metals

wire and cables, insulated by means of plastic

materials, even with other added materials...

22%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A883

SCHEDULE X FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valorem

1725B
17250 1725D 17258 1725F 1726

Wire and cables insulated by means of natural or artificial rubber, balata or gutta percha, even with other added materials other than plastic materials ....
wire and cables insulated by means of varnish, lac , enamel or metallic salts or oxides (enamelled wires, wire anodically oxided, etc)
wire and cables insulated by means of cellulose pulp, paper or textile materials other than silk, floss silk (schappe ) and synthetic fibres......
wire and cables insulated by means of magnesia, asbestos , silk, floss silk, ( schappe ) synthetic fibres , glass fibre , pure or mixed in any proportion with other materials....
other .....
Wire and cables fitted with connecting plugs....

Duty of wire and cables insulated with plastic materials. (No. 1725A)
22%
22%
22% 22% 22%

Chapter 93
ELECTRIC APPLIANCES
Portable lamps having their own source of power (pocket lamps and the like) :

Ex 1730A

complete lamps : other (with batteries ,

accumulators , etc. except electro-magnetic

lamps )..

20%

1730B

cases.....

20

1732 Incandescent lamps and tubes.....

18%

1734 Electric discharging lamps and tubes and other

lamps and tubes for electric lighting (including

magnesium flash lamps with electric ignition) ...

18%

Ex 1735 Parts and components of lamps and tubes for

electric lighting , other : bulbs and tubes of

fluorescent glass or glass coated with fluores-

cent materials......

18%

A884

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1736 Telegraph apparatus

1737 Telephone apparatus

1739 Electric apparatus for aiding hearing

1740 Microphones for all uses .....

1741 Parts and components of telegraph and telephone apparatus

1742 Transmitters for wireless telegraphy, wireless telephony, broadcasting and television, including transmitter-receivers

Receiving apparatus:

1743A

receiving apparatus for wireless tele-
graphy, wireless telephony and broadcasting, combined or not with a phonograph ........

1743B

receiving apparatus for television, combined or not with a wireless receiving set and (or) a phonograph ............

1744A
1744B 17440 1744D

Radio electric apparatus, not elsewhere specified or included :
radio-guiding, radio-location , radiodirection finding and the like .......
Sounding apparatus and obstacle detectors..
cameras for direct transmission television.
other

1745A 1745B

Parts, components and accessories of radioelectric apparatus:
aerials, mounted
assembled detached parts constituting a part of radio-electric apparatus

Rate of duty ad valorem 18% 18% 15% 18% 18%
22%
24%
24%
20% 20% 20% 20%
20% 24%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -- OCT. 30, 1947

A885

SCHEDULE · FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No

Description of Products

1745C
1745D 17453 1745F

loud-speakers , loud-speaker diaphragms , with or without coils, for all purposes
variable and adjustable condensers radio-electric valve-holders with contacts.. furniture and cases:
of wood .....

of plastic materials and other materials.

1745G

other .....

1746 Electric current amplifiers of all kinds

1747 Special tubes for radio-electric transmissions .

1748 Other radio-electric tubes (tubes for receiving apparatus , amplifiers , vacum rectifiers for all uses, tuning indicators of all kinds , etc. ).
1749 Cathode tubes

1751 Vacum or gas photo-electric cells

Electric tubes, valves and lamps, other than
for lighting purposes , not elsewhere specified or included :

1752A

frame electronic analysers ........

1752B

secondary transmitting tubes and electron multipliers ......

1752C

electrometer tubes and photo-meters .....

1752D

vacuum or gas thermo-electric torques .....

1752E 1752F
17544

voltage and strength regulating tubes ...... other .........................
Apparatus for medical, dental , veterinary and industrial radiology and accessories :
radiology apparatus

Rate of duty ad valorem
19% 20% 20%
18% 22% 20% 19% 20%
20% 20% 20%
20% 20% 20% 20% 20% 20%
20%

A886

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE

PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1754B 17540 1754D
1755A 1755B 17550
1755D 1756
1757A

Iray tubes and valves.....
radiological screens. other......
Medical, dental and veterinary apparatus and accessories :
radium therapy apparatus and accessories....
actinology apparatus.....
electro-therapy apparatus (with galvanic , faradic , rhythmic currents , short wave diathermic , " electrocoupe " , electrocoagulation) other...
Unassembled parts for radiology apparatus and electric medical apparatus.··· · ·· Electric apparatus for soldering , heating and axtruding metals;
are apparatus:
rotary apparatus..

1757B 17570 1757D 17573
1758A

static apparatus, with transformer or rectifier; soldering heads and fittings , automatic or semi-automatic......................
resistance apparatus............. electric soldering irons...
other apparatus...... components (electrode points , soldering tongs, etc. )................
Electro-thermic cookery apparatus: kitchen ranges.....

Rate of Duty ad valorem
20% 20% 20%
207 20%
20% 20% 20
Duty of generators (No.1700B)
18% 18%7 16% 18% 18%
18%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A887

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE

PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valoran

1758B
17580
1763A ex 1763B
1764A 1764B 17640 1764D 1764E
1765
1766A 1766B 17660 1766D

domestic ovens , heaters , hot-tables , plate-

heaters , bread-toasters , grills and the

like .....

18%

driers , auto-cookers (Norwegian cookers)

drying apparatus......

18%

Electric razors and clippers :

electric razors , parts and components........

15%

electric clippers , parts and components other

than combs and counter-comba .....

15%

Revolving electric domestic apparatus , not elsewhere specified or included :

ventilators , called "ventilators for flats"..

18%

vacuum cleaners , beating and vacuum clean-

ing apparatus..

22%

floor waxing apparatus .....

16%

domestic washing machines or wringing machines ,

with or without heating devices .....................................

18%

other (dish-washing and cleaning machines,

kneading machines , shoe polishing apparatus ,

eto. ).........

18%

Electric starters , dynamos for vehicles , parts ,

components and accessories

20%

Electric ignition apparatus for engines :

ignition distributors ....

25%

ignition coils .....

25%

magnetic flywheels ......

25%

magnetos of all kinds , including dynamo-

magnetos .......

25

A888

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

French Tariff Item No.

SCHEDULE II - FRANCE PART I (Continued) Description of Products

Rate of Duty ad valoien

17665 1767A 1767B 17670 1768A 1768B
17680
1768D 17698

other .......
Accessories, parts and components of ignition apparatus:
ignition and heating sparking plugs and other, parts and components...... ............. contact breakers and parts .... other .....
Electrical equipment for motor vehicles , cycles , motor-boats, aircraft, etos
lighting apparatus (searchlights , headlights , side-lights , riding-lights , etc ) ...
signalling apparatus : hooters and parts .....
other (direction, stop or overtaking indicators, intermittent indicators, signal repeaters , eto. ) components and parts ....... switchboards
other apparatus (windscreen-wipers, antimoisture windscreen devices, rime preventers , petrol pumps , eto. ) parts and components ..
Electrical apparatus not elsewhere specified or included, other

25%
25% 20% 20%
20%
20%
15% Duty of control or distributing boards , etc. (No. 1718)
15% 197

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A889

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No..

Description of Products

1771B 1771C 1772C
1778A 1778B
1781A 1781B 1781C 1781D 1782
1783
1785A 1785B 17850

Chapter 94
RAILWAY AND TRAMWAY ROLLING-STOCK AND MATERIAL
Loco-tractors for track of more than 060 gauge:
with explosion or internal combustion engines ....
electric ......

Electric rail- cars for track of more than 060 gauge ......

Material for tramways for track of more than 060 gauge :

cars or rail- cars...

slip-coaches .............

Locomotives , loco-tractors and railcars for track of 060 and less gauge :
with steam engines , including tender-locomotives ....

with explosion or internal combustion engines ....

electric .....

locomotives propelled by compressedair and other ......

Trolleys ( " draisines" ) with or without angine, for track of o 60 and less
gauge ....

Tenders for locomotives for track of

060 and less gauge ....

.......

Wagons , tip-wagons and berlin coaches for track of 0"60 and less gauge:

platform... tipping wagons .. other .

Rate of duty ad valorem
15% 20% 20%
20% 15%
18% 18% 20% 18% 18% 18%
18% 18% 18%

A890

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French TIatreimfNfo.

Description of Products

1788 1789 1795A
1795B

Axles for railway material , machinefinished , assembled or not ......
Wheels for railway material .
Track material :
for track of more than 060 gauge: switches , frog-points , track crossings and points , assembled tracks , turntables ...
others (buffers , bumping-pads , loading-gauges , cog- rails , etc. ) for track of 060 and less gauge ...

Rate of duty ad valorem 18% 18%
15% 16% 16%

***

Chapter 95
AUTOMOBILES , CYCLES AND OTHER VEHICLES

1797

Automobiles for carrying passengers...

35%

Automobiles for carrying goods :

1798A

lorries....

35%

1798B

tractors :

with explosion or internal combustion engine :

caterpillar tractors .............

15%

wheel tractors ( tractor fore-
carriages and other ) , weighing per unit :

1,200 kg. and less ....

15%

more than 1,200 kg .....

35%

winch-tractors ....

35%

with electric motor and with

other engine................

35%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A891

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I (Contimed)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1799
1801A 18018 18024 1802B 1802C 1803
18044 1804B 1804C 1804D
1804

Other automobiles ( for special purposes) : road-sweepers , spreading- cars , motorpumps , ladder-cars, amw-ploughs , etc : ..
Complete automobile coachwork, fitted or not, for automobiles:
for passenger transport.....
for goods transport ................
Parts of coachwork for automobiles :
cabs .....
coachwork equipment .
other .....
Complete chassis (with engine) for automobiles , with or without tyres , with or without vaporisation devices , with or without electrical equipment , with or without bonnet , wings, footboards , switchboards , steering wheels ..
Chassis parts and components :
frames on wheels , with or without brake devices....
frames without wheels .
transmission gear...
suspension gear : axles , not mounted , axles mounted on wheels, wheels fitted or not and their parts , caterpillars.... shock absorbers...
steering gear................

***

** ****

Rate of duty ad valorom 35%
25% 30%

A892

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1804F 1804G 1804H 18041 1807
1808 1814

brakes .....
silencers and gas heating devices ...
radiators and parts , including radiator water heating devices ......
chassis equipment ......
Motor- cycles , with or without tyres , with or without crank- gear , with or without sidecars .....
Parts and components of cycles and motor-cycles ....
Trailers for automobiles , motor - cycles and cycles , for the transport of goods , weighing per unit :
less than 100 kg ...
100 kg . inclusive to 1,000 kg . exclusive ....

1,000 kg . and more .....

Rate of duty ad valorem 30% 30% 30% 30%
25% 25%
20% 25% 35%

1817A 1817B

Chapter 96
MARITIME AND INLAND NAVIGATION
Sea- going vessels , with a gross tonnage of :
more than 250 tons ...
250 tons and less ....

Free
Duty of vessels for inland navigation, according to the kind, subject to the provision of the General note to
Chapter 96, § II.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A893

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

1819A
1819B 18190 1820A 1821

Vessels for inland navigation ( lakes , canals , rivers ) used for passenger transport :

mechanically propelled :

boats for pleasure and sport ,

including motor- boats with

electric or explosion engines....

5

other :

hulls ...

10%

propelling machinery , boilers , replacements , auxiliary apparatus , furniture , miscellaneous appliances .

Dutiable at their appropriate rates .

sailing vessels .....

12%

other :

boats for pleasure and sport ,

including house- boats ....

22%

other .....

10%

Vessels for inland navigation ( lakes , canals , rivers) used for goods transport , mechanically propelled :

hulls .....

15%

propelling machinery , boilers , replacements , auxiliary apparatus , furniture , miscellaneous appliances
Vessels for inland navigation ( lakes , canals , rivers) for special uses (ferry- boats , dredgers , floating fire engines , suction dredgers , mast - cranes , lighters , floating- cranes , caissons of floating docks , etc. ) , propelled or not :

Dutiable at their appropriate rates .

hulls....

15%

272

95347 0--49- pt. 5- 57

A894

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

propelling machinery , boilers , auxiliary apparatus , working machines and apparatus , replacements , furniture , miscellaneous appliances ..

1824A 1824B 1825

Propelling gear for vessels : mechanical gear ( screws , paddlewheels , etc . ) ......
other ( oars , paddles , etc. ) .............. Steering apparatus ...

Rate of duty ad lorem
Dutiable at their appropriate rates .
22% 22% 22%

1828 1829A

Chapter 97
AIR NAVIGATION
Aircraft ( aeroplanes , seaplanes , holicopters , gliders , etc. ) with or without engines , weighing empty :
more than 1,500 kg .....
1,500 kg . and less .
Aircraft fittings and components :
wings and empennages :
complete wings .....
parts of wings , empennages and parts of enpennages (wings , wing rudders , ailerons and flaps , guys, horizontal and vertical ailerons , etc . ) .......

25% 35%
dutiable as aircraft (No. 1828)
20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A895

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No. 1829B
1829C
1829D 1829E 1829F
1829G 1829H 18291 1829J

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

fuselages and booms :
complete fuselages ..........
parts of fuselages and booms (hulls , "capotages " , driving booms , etc. ) ....

Dutiable as aircraft ( No. 1828)
20%

landing gear , with or without driving

and shock-absorbing gear , tail-skids

and tail-wheels , and components .....

20%

wheels , with or without tyres ......

20%

floats and ballonets ....

20%

equipped motor sets , with or without engine or propeller ...

Duty of aircraft engines ( No. 1528)

propellers , parts and components ....

20%

tanks and auxiliary tanks , with or

without protection ....

20%

liquid or oil radiators , with or

without control gear ....

20%

other ..

20%

Chapter 98

METERS , MEASURING , VERIFYING AND CONTROLLING APPLIANCES AND APPARATUS

ex 1837

Revolution meters and other meters (meters for measuring , opisometers ,

passometers , taximeters , distance covered production- counters , stroke-

counters,pedometers , etc. ) : apparatus

for totalizing purposes only .....

20%

A896

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHE

· FRANCE

PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

1838
ex 1843B 1843D 1843F 1843G 18431 1844A
1844B
18440

Speedometers , tachymeters , for industry

or vehicles .....

25%

Other non-electrical apparatus for
measuring , controlling , regulating or analysing for gaseous or liquid fluids or for temperature :

delivery meters , others (excluding

apparatus working with a " deprimo-

gene" ) for indicating purposes only ..

25%

draught regulators .....

15%

level indicators for indicating

purposes only, and others

15%

analysers for gas or smoke ........

153

other apparatus ....

20%

Electric apparatus for measuring :

apparatus measuring electric

magnitudes ( volt- meters , ampere-

meters , watt-neters , phase-maters ,

frequency meters , galvanometers , wave-

meters , ohm -meters , capacimeters ,

tested resistance boxes , etc) .....

20%

apparatus measuring non- electric magnitudes but with measuring mechanism based on electric phenomena varying with the magnitude to be measured ( pyrometers , luxmeters , anemoneters , level indicators , salinometers , gasanalysers , psychoneters , electric torques , etc. ).
measuring apparatus for control purposes only ( safety and telecontrol relays , etc. ) .

Duty of apparatus measuring electric nagnitudes ( No.1844A)
19%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A897

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1846A
1846B 1852

Parts and components not elsewhere specified or included , of all meters , apparatus for controlling , regulating or analysing for gaseous or liquid fluids or for temperature , electric measuring apparatus , and accessory devices :
indicator devices with single functions ( indicators , totalising apparatus or integrators) composed of mechanism designed to transform the movement of the measuring apparatus into appropriate units ...
other parts and components , assembled or not .....
Instruments for linear measurement (metres , decametros , divided rules , etc. , with or without case) , of any materials ......

Rate of duty ad valorem
20% 20% 22%

Chapter 99

OPTICS : SCIENTIFIC AND PRECISION. INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS ; SPECTACLES : PHOTOGRAPHY AND CINEMATOGRAPHY: MEDICO-SURGICAL MATERIAL

Mounted optical glasses for instruments and apparatus , entered separately :

1856A

objectives , lenses , prisms , mirrors ,

sound reproducing units for

apparatus or instruments of photo-

graphy, cinematography , silent or

sound projection , or their

application...

20%

1856B

other :

objectives and eyepieces ...

25%

A898

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

1858A 1858B
1858C 1860A 1860B 1862 ex 1864A

mounted optical mirrors,

including rear-view mirrors ......

20%

other .....

25%

Instruments of geodesy , topography , surveying and levelling :

instruments with lenses , whether

complete with optical fittings or

not, parts and components other

than lenses ...

25%

instruments without lenses ( optical
squares , water- levels , ordinary compasses , " sitomètres " , " declinatoires ,

simple alidades , etc. ) , and parts

and components

25%

surveying and topography accessories

25%

Instruments for sea , river , or air navigation :

compasses , with or without binnacles ,

or cases , parts and components .....

25%

instruments for taking bearings ,

with or without optical fittings ,

parts and components other than

optical fittings ....

25%

Precision graduating machines , with or

without optical fittings, parts and

components other than optical fittings.

15%

Machines for testing metals , concrete ,

wood and similar hard materials :

machines for testing hardness with

diamond point ( Rockwell's or Vickers '

tests) , with or without diamond , or

with the ball (Brinell's tests ) .....

15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A899

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1865A 1865B

Apparatus and instruments for physical or chemical research and analysis :
apparatus and instruments based on optical process (polarimeters , saccharimeters , photodastometers , interferential apparatus , photometers , spectrophotometers , spectrometers and spectrographs , refractometers , optical meters , etc. ) with or without optical fittings , and parts and components other than optical fittings ......
other apparatus and instruments (viscosimeters , instruments for measuring superficial tension, etc.) . and components......

1866 ex 1874

Instruments and apparatus for meteorology , hydrology , (pluviometers , anemometers , hygrometers , etc. ) and components
Photographic apparatus , other (excluding cameras with automatic development and printing and reproducing cameras) , entered with or without optical fittings
Accessories , parts and components, not elsewhere specified or included , of photographic apparatus :

ex 1875A

parts and components of apparatus , other ( excluding shutters , shutterreleases and bellows) ..

1875B

accessories :

plate-frames , film-packs , roll films; changing-boxes .....
reels for films....

Rate of duty ad valorem
22% 22% 15% 25%
25% 18% 15%

A900

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

printing- frames ; time-exposure indicators , exposure- meters ;

photographic laboratory instruments ( printers , dryers ,

glazers , developing boxes , etc. ) ;

other ....

18%

1878

Motion picture cameras with or without

sound-recording , entered with or

without optical fittings ......

18%

1879

Cinematographic projection apparatus

with or without sound- reproducer

entered with or without optical fittings

25%

Accessories , parts and components , not elsewhere specified or included , of cinematographic apparatus :

1880A

apparatus parts and components .....

25%

1880B

accessories of apparatus ( reels for

w'nding films and other) .......

18%

1886A

Instruments for dental surgery ( forceps ,

elevators , curettes , fraises ) .......

20%

Surgical furniture :

1887B

dental chairs .....

20%

1887C

dental equipment on stands

( spittoons , sprayers , cauteries ,

reflectors , arm lathes , etc. ) with

or without engine ; pedal-lathes ...

20%

ex 1887F

accessories , parts and components :

arms for dental lathes ....

20%

ex 1895A

Articles for dental prothesis : artificial teeth and dentures of

porcelain or other materials , with

or without mounting of precious

metals......

10%%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -- OCT. 30, 1947

A901

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
1913A 1913C
1914A Ex 1914B
19140 1914D 1918A

Description of Products
Chapter 101 MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS , MUSICAL APPARATUS
AND ACCESSORIES
Musical wind instruments , mechanically blown :
pipe instruments ( organs and the like ) accordions and similar instruments :
accordions with piano keyboard ; " concertinas" and " bandoneons " other :
80 basses and less ..... more than 80 basses ....
Wind instruments , blown by human agency :
mouth organs of more than 7 notes
wooden musical instruments ( or of plastic materials ) :
clarinets , oboes , bassoons , double- bassoons , English horns metal musical instruments , mouthpiece instruments , nozzle or key instruments
instruments for calling and signalling Sound recording and reproducing apparatus : sound recording apparatus .....

Rate of duty ad valorem
35%
15% 15% 25%
Duty of toy mouth organs (No.1978A)
20% 20% 15%
25%

A902

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

1918B 1918C

saund reproducing apparatus (phonographs ) ......
combined apparatus ( dictaphones and the like )

1924A

Components for sound - recording and reproducing apparatus :
sound reproducing units : for records ....

for sound films :

engraved .... exposed .....

for magnetic wire and plates and other ...

1924B

components ( diaphragms , etc. ) ....
turn-tables with electric or mechanical motor , with or without sound-reproducing unit

Ex 1924C

Unwinding apparatus : for films ....

1924D

for magnetic wire
film turners , with or without soundreproducing unit ....

1924E
1924F 1924G 1924H
19241

magnetic wire and plate turners , with or without sound- reproducing unit .... Mechanical motors with accessories . neodles and points .....
mounted sapphires for sound recording and reproducing ...... ...
other (arms , horns , oranks , turntables , needle- boxes , etc. ) .

Rate of duty ad valorem
24% 20%
26%
26% See 1856
20% 26%
26%
See 1880A 20% 20%
20% 20% 20% 20% 26%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A903

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Sound-bearings articles :

1925A

not recorded .....

Ex 1925B

recorded ( sound-records) :

recorded waxes ; galvanic moulds

and dies for engraved records and

films

...

1925C 1925D

records ; films recorded by engraving; magnetic wire and plates and other ( except films recorded by photo- electric process) ....
perforated cardboard and paper ..
other ( cylinders and records for automatic apparatus , musical boxes , etc. )

Rate of duty ad valorem 25%
20%
25% 25% 25%

Chapter 103

ARMS AND AMMUNITIONS OTHER THAN FOR WAR PURPOSES.

1938 Sporting guns , automatic or not .....

18%

Ex 1939 Carbines , not automatic ...

18%

Revolvers and pistols :

1941A

cylinder revolvers .....

18%

1942B

annular or central firing pistols ,

automatic or not , with a bore of

7.65 short and under ...

18%

1942 Arms using any propulsive power other

than powder combustion .....

18%

1944 Parts and components of arms

18%

A904

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Ammunition other than for war purposes :

1946B 1946C

unloaded cartridges , primed or not .... bullets ....

Rate of duty ad valorem
18% 18%

Chapter 106

TOYS: GAMES : ARTICLES FOR AMUSEMENT: SPORTS APPLIANCES

1972

Toy bicycles , scooters , mechanical

horses , pedal cars , sporting toys , doll

carts and carriages

35%

Ex 1974

Toy building and transforming sets , of

metal , with motor ....

35%

1975

Electrical toys , including accessories and

components and motor toys , not elsewhere

specified or included ....

......

35%

1976

Toy projection apparatus ( cinematographic

projection apparatus , magic lanterns ,

etc . ) ......

35%

Toy musical instruments :

1978A

toy mouth-organs ...

35%

1978B

toy phonographs .

35%

Toys , not elsewhere specified or included :

Ex 1979A

without movement mechanism:

pf metal .....

35%

of wood ....

35%

of rubber :

"bibis" and similar articles

of extensible sheets .......

30%

other , with or without dressing

or trimmings ....

35%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A905

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Continued )

French Tariff Item No.
1979B 1982B
1984A 1984B Ex 1993
Ex 1994
1996 2000
2001A 2001B 2001C 2001D

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

with movement mechanism ..........

35%

Toys with engines or movement mechanism

for outdoor uses , other ( except appara-

tus called " penny in the slot" distribu-

ting money or counters exchangeable

for drinks)

30%

Playing cards :

toy cards

25%

other ....

30%

Sports balls ; balls of any material

with bladders , medicine balls and

punching balls , sewn or in cut panels ;

ball bladders ; tennis balls ........

22%

Articles for lawn- tennis , table- tennis , tennis and similar games ; racket

frames and tennis rackets , badminton

or squash rackets and the like ......

22%

Ice skates and roller skates and

components ...

20%

Sports appliances with movement

mechanism ( training and rowing

machines , home-trainers , etc. ) ......

22%

Fishing tackle , not elsewhere specified or included :

fishing rods and parts ......

20%

hooks , unmounted

15%

fishing reels ...

20%

other (mounted bow-nets and nets ,

mounted fishing lines , floats ,

winders , artificial gentles , etc. )

20%

A906

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE II - FRANCE PART I (Continued)

French Tariff Item No.
2004 2005
Ex 2007

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

Chapter 107Z MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES MADE OF VARIOUS
MATERIALS
Press studs for sewing and parts ..... Dome fasteners (including riveting pressbuttons and "mechanical" buttons ) and parts .... Other buttons :
not covered with textile materials : of base metals :
for trousers ... other of wood ...
of doom palm , bone , moulded or turned horn
of plastic materials ..... of ceramic materials
of glass : not decorated .... decorated .....
of rubber or ebonite , of compressed cardboard , natural or artificial leather, of mother of pearl or shell, of ivory, tortoise shell , amber, amberoid of fine stones :
of jet ... other .....

20%
20%
20% 15% 18% 20% 25% 20%
15% 20%
20%
20% Duties of fine stones, worked other than for industrial purposes (No.1257B)

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A907

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE PART I ( Continued)

French Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of duty ad valorem

2008 Ex 2009A
2009B 2009D
2010A

of other materials ( except

corozo) ......

20%

covered with textile materials .....

20%

Slide fasteners and parts ( slides , etc. )

20%

Pen nibs :

nibs of precious metals : gold nibs..

8%

nibs of base metal ....

25%

nib tips ......... .

7%

Pen-holders , stylographs , pencilholders , própelling pencils , and components :

fountain pens and stylographs of
any material , with or without nib....

23% but not less than 12 francs per article .

2010B 2010D

pen-holders , other than fountain pens , and pencil-holders of any material ....
components , including clips :
of precious metals and plated with precious metals ...
of base metals .....
of other materials :
rubber ink tubes ....

other ..

27%
23% 23%
Duty of bulbs for dropping tubes (No. 721A)
23%

A908

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART I ( Concluded )

French Tariff Item No. Ex 2014B
Ex 2014C

Description of Products

Pipes , cigar and cigarette -holders :

pipe and pipe - bowls :

pipes of earthenware , of a single piece

other , of wood , or root , mounted

or not ... ..

....

cigar and cigarette - holders , ends and stems for pipes , cigar and cigarette-holders , other :
partly or entirely of horn or plastic materials

of other materials ( except paper or cardboard , ebonite , amber , amberoid , copal , ivory , mother-of-pearl and tortoiseshell ) .....

Rate of duty ad valorem
15% 20%
208
20%

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE PART II
Preferential Tariff.
N11 .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A909

NOTES TO SCHEDULE XI A ·· FRANCE

GENERAL OBSERVATIONS
I. The notes and footnotes to the French Tariff , the text of which was handed to delegations at the opening of the Geneva negotiations , are regarded as forming an integral part of Schedule XI A.
II . The receipts issued by the French Customs Administration are subject to a stamp duty .

NOTES RELATING TO PARTICULAR PRODUCTS
Ad. No.1 A, 3 , 4 and 6. Thoroughbred breeding animals classified under these numbers will be admitted free , subject to the conditions determined by the Minister of Agriculture , when they are intended for the Horse - breeding Administration or stock-breeding associations .

Ad No. 81 et seq . , 176 et seq . Apart from Customs duties coffee , tea , spices , cocoa and chocolate are subject to internal consumption taxes , the rate of which may be modified by ministerial decree and , on occasion , special taxes which are levied on both foreign products and products of the French Union alike .
Ad No. 93. In accordance with the provisions of Article II,
paragraph 4 , of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade , the resale price , for each calendar quarter year, of wheat imported by the " Office National Interprofessionel des Céréales" , exclusive of internal taxes , transportation , distribution and other expenses incident to the purchase and sale , and for a reasonable margin of profit shall not exceed by more than 15% the average landed cost , duty paid , of wheat imported during the previous quarter .
Further in the event of wide fluctuations or variations in world prices , the amount of maximum protection agreed to in this item may be adjusted in order to maintain the stability of the domestic price , subject to agreement between the countries party to the negotiation .

Ad No. 189 , 190 and 202. Sauces with a base of vegetables ,
and , in particular , those with a base of tomatoes ( ketchup and the like ) are classified as preserved vegetables or as sauces , according to whether the vegetables form the chief constituent element or not.

Ad No. 235 A. · I

The French Government undertakes that
the S.E.I.T.A. shall import annually 15,000 tons of leaf tobacco originating in other countries than the French Union.

95347 O -49--pt. 5 58

A910

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

II Further, in the event that the S.E.I.T.A. should process more than 60,000 tons of leaf tobacco in any year , this import figure of 15,000 tons would be increased for the following year by a quantity equal to one half of the excess .
III · A margin of 10% is authorised with the reservation that the difference may be carried forward from one year to the next , provided that total imports for any period of three years shall not be less than the quantities provided for in paragraphs I and II .
IV - The foregoing undertaking by the French Government is made subject to the application of the provisions of Articles XII and XIV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade .

Ad 236-

I - The French Government undertakes that the
S.E.I.T.A. shall import annually 1,400 tons of cigarettes originating in other countries than the French Union.

II The selling prices of foreign cigarettes shall not be higher than those resulting from the application to the selling prices of the " de luxe " cigarettes of the Monopoly ( " Balto" , "Week-End" , "Gitanes -Vizir " ) of the same ratio of increase which the selling prices represented before the war in relation to the selling prices of " de luxe" cigarettes of the Monopoly .
III · A margin of 10% is authorised with the reservation that the difference may be carried forward from one year to the next , provided that the total imports for any period of three years shall not be less than 4,200 tons .
IV · The foregoing undertaking by the French Government is made subject to the application of the provisions of Articles XII and XIV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade .
Ad Nos 311 312 313 The French Government , considering It uneconomic to impose duties on such an essential raw material as coal , has provided that it shall be imported free , on condition however that the provisions which are to appear in the final text of Chapter VI of the Draft Charter permit action to avert the effects of a possible crisis .
Ad No.319 et seq . - The importation of motor- fuels and petroleum products is subject to special formalities .

Ad Nos . 332 to 341 The consolidated duties in the present Schedule are intended only to protect refining . The French Government reserves the right to apply internal taxes applicable to all petroleum products delivered for consumption in the

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30 , 1947

A911

Metropolitan territory and to modify at any time the rates of such taxes, which shall include the supplementary tax assigned . to the "Bureau des Recherches Petrolifères . "
Ad No. 567 et seq. · The importation of the pharmaceutical products included under Chapter 30 is authorised only insofar as they comply with French internal legislation concerning these products ; in particular , the definitions of " medicaments sous cachet and pharmaceutical specialities are those provided for in the French internal legislation.
Ad No. 573 A to 573 J - The French Government reserves the right to impose on nitrogenous fertilisers , from July 1 , 1951 , an import duty not exceeding 10% ad valorem if, on that date , there has not been concluded , in respect of these products , an inter-governmental commodity agreement under the conditions provided for under Chapter VI of the Draft Charter .
Ad No. 670 and 671 · News reels are considered to be films ma de by news-real companies , less than 310 metres in length , relating to political , social , economic , sporting , military , scientific , literary events or to folk lore , tourism or society life . To qualify for the favourable treatment provided in the present Schedule, such films must be imported by or for the account of firms belonging to the "Chambre syndicale française de la presse filmée . " The Customs Administration reserves the freedom to accord the same treatment to films of greater length but of the same character .
Ad No. 1270 et seq . and miscellaneous · The importation of articles made of precious metals is subject to the formalities provided under the hallmark laws and regulations .
Ad No. 1798 B - The weight of tractors to be taken into consideration for determining the weight category is that of the vehicles as they are imported, with or without tyres , with or without the instruments and accessories normally provided , including a spare wheel and a tool box, with tools .
Ad No. 1799 Container conveyors, consisting of a tractor combined with a semi - trailer having handling apparatus are dutiable, as a unit , as motor vehicles other ( for special purposes) when the tractor engine works the handling apparatus , If on the other hand the containers are loaded and unloaded without the help of the tractor engine , each part ( tractor, trailer , hoisting apparatus ) is dutiable at its appropriate rate .

A912

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE Section B. French Equatorial Africa (Part of Gabon not comprised in the Treaty Basin of the Congo)
PART I Most-Favoured - Nation Tariff

Gabon Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

40 Wheat flour

73 Syrups , sweets , sweet biscuits , candied fruits , jams containing sugar or honey ..

Tobacco :

80

tobacco in leaves

82

cigarettes .....

83

other manufactured tobacco : smoking

Wines , ordinary or quality , exclusively the produce of the fermentation of fresh grapes , with an actual alcohol content of :

less than 12°:

129

in casks , demijohns

130

in cases ....

from 12° to 15° inclusive :

131

in caske , demijohns

132

in cases .....

135
ex 139 bis
143 144

Wines , with an actual alcohol content of over 15 , liqueur wines of any kind .....
Brandy , spirits and all alcoholic beverages not elsewhere specified , except rum .....
Cement: slow-setting
Cement : other

146 Petroleum , schist and other mineral oils ; refined oils and benzine (gasoline)...
148 Lubricating oils
151 Gas oils

152 Fuel oils

* ii * * * *

Rate of Duty
(surtax) 5%
10% 25% 50% 50%
20% 20%
20% 20% 20%
Free 10%

X

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A913

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Section B. French Equatorial Africa (Part of Gabon not comprised in the Treaty Basin of the Congo)
PART I ( Continued ) Most-Favoured - Nation Tariff

Gabon Tariff Item
Number ex 157
182 183 184 186
ex 216 245
264 265 266 267 ex 275
279 281 ex 288 ex 288 288

Description of Products

Rate of Duty
( surtax)

Coal
Perfumery :
soap , other than transparent
soap other , with alcohol .....
soap other , without alcohol
candles of any kind , other than candles of paraffin wax , pure or mixed ....
Tissues of fine cotton , unbleached , known as " Kaffi sheetings"
Blankets other than so - called " couvertures de traite , manufactured in one piece , of any textile including cotton Footwear :
measuring up to 18 cms . inside length ( for children ) .....
measuring from 18 to 23 cms . inclusive inside length ( for boys and girls ) ... for women
for men ....
Agricultural and horticultural machines , including agricultural tractors Household wares :

Free
10% 10% 10%
10% 15%
10%
10% 10% 10% 10%
5%

of iron , painted , polished , lead-

coated , zinc - coated or galvanized ....

10%

of iron , tinned , enamelled or

nickelled ..

10%

Anchors and grappling hooks

7%

Steel tires for railway cars

7%

Other metal manufactures not elsewhere

specified ...

10%

A 914

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Section B. French Equatorial Africa (Part of Gabon not comprised in the Treaty Basin of the Congo)
PART I (Continued) Most -Favoured - Nation Tariff

Gabon Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty
(surtax )

305 to
317
318 to
330
331
ex 342
ex 342

Automobiles specially fitted for carrying passengers , excluding motor coaches ...
Automobiles specially fitted for carrying goods , or for industrial purposes , including motor coaches ....
Detached parts and accessories for automobiles of any kind .... Fresh butter
Jams

30%
30% 25% Free
5%

PART II

Preferential Tariff

146 Petroleum , schist and other mineral oils , bis on removal from controlled factories in

the metropolitan territory ....

35

148 Lubricating oils , on removal from

bis controlled factories in the metropolitan

territory

25

151 Gas oils , on removal from controlled

bis factories in the metropolitan territory

2%

152 Fuel oils , on removal from controlled

bis factories in the metropolitan territory

25

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A915

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE Section C. French West Africa
PART I Most-Favoured - Nation Tariff

F.W.A. Tariff Item
Number 42 48 49 52 131
132 133 201 203
205 207 232 240
258 259 260

Description of Products
Milk , whole or skimmed , natural , condensed or sterilized and cream ..... Dried fish : cod , stockfish and herrings Dried fish , other : smoked or salted
Fish preserved in natural state , pickled or otherwise prepared Tobacco in leaves
Manufactured tobacco :
cigars .... cigarettes .... Refined and extra refined petroleum ... Benzine
Heavy oils and residues of petroleum and other mineral oils :
destined to be used for supplying engines of any system ......
other , including lubricating oils and paraffin
Soap, other than of perfumery Small glassware .... Tissues of cotton : I · Plain, twilled , serged , whether
or not dressed , goffered , glazed or mercerized 1) - unbleached .... 2) - bleached ..... 3) · dyed in any colour ...

**

Rate Duty
(Table B) 23
12% Free
25%
75% 75% 10% 10%
45 7% 20% 16%
20% 20% 20%

A916

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

F.W.A. Tariff Item Trember
261
262
277
287 295
313 314 317 bis to 319 bis
334 bis to 349

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE
Section C. French West Africa
PART I Continued)
Most-Favoured- Nation Tariff
Description of Products
4) - Printed ; tissues presenting two or more colours and manufactured wholly or partly of dyed threads , whether or not glazed or mercerized
II -O Figured tissues and loin cloths with designs or patterns; tissues with warp and weft of cellular type ; imitations of figured gauzes known as " sofit " ; glossed , damask , dimmity , reps , piqués and quilted covers ; tissues embossed by interplay of the warp and weft ; velvets and plushes
Fezzes and Turkish caps , chechias and berets of knitted stuff heavily fulled or felted or of woollen felt , of the Basque beret type . ...
Tissues of rayon or artificial horsehair , of any kind .....
Made-up articles , wholly or partly of tissues , excluding articles having a special duty in this state :
I · Clothing , parts of clothing , neckties and ties and collars combined
Imitation jewellery
Agricultural machines and apparatus ...
Agricultural and other tractors ( except gazogene tractors )
within a yearly quota of 1,000 tractors , inclusive
outside the quota ....
Automobiles , other than " gazogene " ( B )

Rate of Duty
(Tablo B)
20%
20%
5% 20%
15% 10% Free
15% 30% 30%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A917

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE

Section C. French West Africa

PART I ( Contd)

Most-Favoured - Nation Tariff

F.W.A. Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

350 Detached parts and accossories for to automobiles 370
374 Manufactures of rubber : tyre treads , air tubes and pneumatic tyres

376 Footwear of all kinds , with uppers of cloth, of rubber or of rubberised tissue and soles of rubber or other
material , stuck on or fixed in any other way

380 Chemical matches

ex 383 Wheat flour ex 383 Ship's biscuits

ex 383 Electric machines and apparatus

ex 383 Pocket lamps and cases for pocket lamps

ex 383 Bicycles and parts of bicycles PART II
Preferential Tariff

202 Refined and extra refined petroleum ; coming from controlled factories in the metropolitan territory
204 Benzino ( gasoline) coming from controlled factories in the metropolitan territory

Heavy oils and residues of petroleum and other mineral oils :

206

destined to be used for supplying

engines of any system, coming from controlled factories in the

metropolitan territory

208

other, including lubricating oils

and paraffin coming from controlled factories in the metropolitan

territory

* ** * *

Rate of duty (Table B)
25% 25% 10%
6% 5%
7% 7%
3% 5%

A918

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES 161 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE Section D- French Somali Coast and Dependencies
PART I Most-Favoured -Nation Tariff

French Somali Coast Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

ex 38 Fresh butter, other ....

ex 61 Wheat flour .....

ex 39 Other manufactured tobaccos cigars and cigarettes

ex 196 Petroleum, schist and other mineral oils for lighting : bensine (gasoline ) ......

Automobiles :

572

chassis, with or without engine , with or

without body ....

572 bis 573

Engines and detached parts Bodies and detached parts .....

574 Supporting frames for chassis and detached parts for automobiles

575 575 bis

Headlights and acetylene generators Accumulators and detached parts ....

**

Rate of Duty 2% 2% Free Free
10% 10% 10% 10% 10% 10%

PART II Preferential Tariff

Nil

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT . 30, 1947

A919

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Section E- French Establishments in Oceania
PART I Most Favoured-Nation Tariff

French Oceania Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

nil

Kilk, condensed and sterilized ......

Butter in casks , tins or flasks

Meat preserved, in tins Salmon , tinned

Pilchards, tinned

Potatoes

Rate of Duty
18 1% 1% Free Free Free

Onions ..... Beans, peas, lentils, etc. , dried ...... Grapes and other fruit dried or desiccated .... Fruit preserved in tins Wheat flour Refined sugar Sweet biscuits Cigars and cigarettes Common salt ..... Woods , common, in logs, squared or sawn . Heavy mineral oils (masout) Kerosene . ........ Petrol (gasoline) Lubricating Oils ..

*

Free Free Free 2% 10% 2% 10% 1% Free 10% 8% 8% 5%

Colours, ground in oil, other than lamp and petroleum blacks
Ropes of all kinds and sises ....
Tissues , in the piece, of any textile ...........

5% Free 10%

Clothing and underclothing ( lingerie ) and any other

made-up articles of tissues ......

....

15%

A920

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Section E- French Establishments in Qosanis
PART I (Continued) Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

French Oceania Tariff Item Number

Description of Products

nil Clothing of leather , whether or not lined....

Saddlery, harness-makers ' wares and various articles thereof .....

Travelling articles : valises , bags , travelling bags, rugs, etc. , Articles for sport , of leather Footwear of any kind ...... Paper and manufactures of paper Books .....

Manufactures of metal , except jewellery, watches ,
alarm clocks , machines , tools , cutlery and household wares

Agricultural machines , including tractors ... Sewing machines Typewriters ...... Tools with or without handle Electric and electro-technical machines and apparatus (except electric torches ) .... Electric batteries of any model ..... Incandescent electric lamps Automobilesfor carrying passengers Automobiles for carrying goods Accumulators for automobiles Accumulators other than for automobiles .....

All accessories, parts and detached parts for

automobiles of all kinds .....

......

PART II Preferential Tariff
Nil

Rate of Duty
10%
10%
10% 10% 15% 8% Free
12% Free 8% 8% 8%
8% 10% 10% 30% 30% 20% 10%
25%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A921

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Section F - Guadeloupe and Dependencies
PART I Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

Guadeloupe Tariff Item Number (special tariff)
4 and 6

Description of Products Oxen and bulls

5 and 7

Cows and heifers

7

Steers and bullocks

Calves ............

9 12 17 17: bis ax 17 ter 19A

Rams, ewes and wethers Pigs Meat, salted or pickled, raw, not prepared .. Prepared meats Sausages
Meat preserves: pork, cooked , in tins or other containers

0x 46

Fish , dried , salted or smoked : cod , including klippfish and halibut ..... fillets
otherwise

ex 68 ex 128 bis
198 bis ex 595

Wheat , spelt and merlin: Flour (at any rate of extraction) .........
Woods, common, squared or sawm , other (of any thickness) ........ .....
Heavy oils and residues of petroleum and other mineral oils (lubricating oils) , on importation
Casks , vats, tubs , pails and other coopers ' wares, serviceable, fitted together or not , hooped with wood or metali
casks containing less than 500 litres ........

Rate of Duty 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% Free 5% 10% 10%
10% 8% 5% Free
3%
15%

PART II Preferential Tariff

Nil

A922

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Section G - French Guiana
PART I Most Favoured-Nation Tariff

French Guianaj

Tariff It

Description of Products

Number special tarifa

1 Stallions, geldings and mares of 5 years and over ................

1 Colts ....

2 Mules

3 Asses

4 Oxen

5 Cowe

6 Bulls

7 Steers, bullocks and heifers .. Calves

9 ex 17

Rams , owes and wethers ...
Pork meat, salted or pickled , raw, not prepared, including hams

ex 17 Beef, salted

388

ex 198 ex 68

Meat, preserved, in tins: - Pork
B · Other than pork
Wheat flour ......

ex 109

Potatoes, fresh, imported during any period ... Tobasso in leaves ....

PART II Preferential Tariff

Nil

Rate of Duty
Free Free Free Free Free Free Free Free Free Free
Free Free
10% 5% Free Free 81

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A923

Indo-China Tariff Item
ex 17 ex 19
35 ter 35 quater 35 quinquies
ex 47
ex 68 ex 84 A & B ex 84 A & B
ex 85 95
ex 158C
198C 196 quater
5120 524 bis G.
527 bis ex 537 ex 568 A

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Section H · Indo-China
PART I Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Salted hams and bacon, raw ......
Hans and bacon, cooked , in tins or other containers .....................

Milk, condensed , without sugar Milk, condensed , with addition of sugar Milk food .......

Fish preserved in natural state , pickled or otherwise prepared , other than sardines ...... Wheat flour ....
Grapes, fresh
Fresh apples

Fresh apples imported into Indo-China during April, May and June are free of duty.
Plums and damsons, dried or desiccated .......

Fruit jams , jellies , marmalade , compote pastes ,

purées and similar products containing sugar or

honey ......

.......

Asparagus preserved in hermetically sealed tins or containers, or in casks ...
Heavy mineral oils .....

Road oils and soft pitch

Agricultural and other tractors

Wireless telegraphy and telephono apparatus , except valves imported separately

Refrigerating apparatus ......

Files and rasps , with or without handle .......
Household wares of iron, steel or black sheet iron, painted , polished , lead or sinc coated, or galvanized

10% 20% 10% 10% 10% 25% 125 158 15%
15%
20% 20% 30% Free 15% 15% 15% 15%
15%

A924

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Section H - Indo-China
PART I ( Continued) Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

Indo-China Tariff Item Kumber
ex 576 quater 614 ter A 614 ter A 614 ter B
614 ter C

Description of Products
Electric batteries , dry cells .... Automobiles for carrying passengers ..... Automobiles for carrying goods Accessories , parts and detached parts for all automobiles ...... Headlights , lamps , complete or not

Rate of Duty
15% 25% 25%
20% 20%

PART II
Preferential Tariff
France undertakes in the case of the products enumerated in Part I of the present Schedule , to waive its right to the preference provided under Articles 2 and 3 of the Law of 15 October 1940.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A925

SCHEDULE XI  FRANCE Section I. Madagascar and Dependencies
PART I Most -Favoured - Nation Tariff

Madagascar Tariff Item Number (special tariff)
35 ter 37 quater and 35 quinquies 37 ex 68 75 quinquies ex 84A
ex 84A
93 bis ex 94
ex 95
109

Description of Products
Milk , condensed , whole , without sugar Milk , condensed , with addition of sugar, and milk food , sweetened ......
Butter : fresh, melted or salted ..... Wheat flour
Biscuits , without crystallizable or non-crystallizable sugar and without honey .. Table pears :
imported in cases , not exceeding 20 kgs . gross weight per unit .... otherwise
Table apples :
imported in cases , not exceeding separately 20 kgs . gross weight per unit
otherwise
Sugar confectionery Sweet biscuits , containing up to 25% of crystallizable or non- crystallizable sugar
Fruit jams , jellies , marmalade, compote , purees and similar products containing sugar ( crystallizable or not) or honey : containing 40% or less moisture
Manufactured tobacco :
cigars and cigarettes
snuff and chewing tobacco

Pate of Duty Free 5%
15% 5% 15%
10% 10%
10% 10% 10% 10%
10% 50% 50%

95347 0-49--pt. 5- 59

A926

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE Section I. Madagascar and Dependencies
PART I Most-Favoured - Nation Tariff_

Madagascar TarifY Item Number
(special tarift)

Description of Products

171 bis
ex 197 bis ex 197 ter
B ex 198 ·
B&C 211 298
321 ex 404
418 451 481D

in plugs other ....
Wines (other than liqueur wines and sparkling wines ) exclusively the produce of the fermentation of fresh grapes or of fresh grape juice :
imported in casks
imported in bottles
Benzine ( gasoline )
Refined petroleum oils ( kerosene ) ... Heavy oils , other ( lubricating oils )
Sheet iron , tinned ( tinplate ) , coated with copper , lead or zinc
Varnishes and paints assimilated to varnishes
Candles of any kind ....
Tissues of pure cotton , plain , unbleached , known as "Kaffir sheetings" Cotton blankets
Woollen blankets
Footwear of leather , viz . with uppers wholly or partly of leather and with leather or other soles : for men ....

Rate of Duty 50% 50%
20% 20%
5% 5% %
15% 15% 15% 10% 10% 10%
15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A927

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Section I. Madagascar and Dependencies
PART II

Preferential Tariff

Madagascar Tariff Item Number
(special tariff)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

ex 197 bis Benzine (gasolene) , coming from

controlled factories in the metro-

politan territory

18

ex 197 ter Refined oils (kerosene ) coming from

B

controlled factories in the metro-

politan territory .....

1%

ex 198 B& C

Heavy oils , other ( lubricating oils ) , ooming from controlled factories

in the metropolitan territory .....

1%

A928

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Section J. Martinique
PART I Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

Martinique Tariff Item Number
(special tariff) 1
4 6 6 &7 9 12 13 17 17 bis
Ex 17 tor 19 A
Ex 68 Ex 109 Ex 128 bis
198

2 2 2 17

Description of Products
Stallions , geldings and mares of any age Mules Oxon Cows ... Bulls, bullooks and heifers Rams, owes and wethers Pigs ..... Sucking pigs , weighing 15 Kgs . or leas Meat , salted or piokled , raw, not prepared Prepared meats : pork, beef and other:
uncooked , smoked , dried , rolled or simply stewed cooked
Sausages Pork, oookod, preserved in tins or other containers Whent flour Tobaooo in leaves Woods squared or sawn , other (except timber for barrel-making ) Heavy oils: lubricating and other .....

PART II Preferential Tariff
11

Rate of Duty
Free Free Free Free Free Free Free Free Free
Free 10% 20%
20% 5%
25%
Free Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A929

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Section K. New Caledonia and Dependencies
PART I Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

New Caledonia Tariff Item
Humber

Description of Products

ex 17

Salted meat , pork bacon

hams and other

Milk:

35

whether or not sterilized or pept-

onized, not condensed

condensed, whole

Rate of Duty
Free
Free Free

35

condensed, with addition of sugar

ter

and milk food

36 Cheese

37 Butter

ex 68 Wheat flour

ex 79 Rice, whole

83 Potatoes

91 Sugar, the produce of foreign countries ,
in powder and agglomerated, of any estimated yield ........

Sweet biscuits



95 0164-0165
128-140

Jams Sea salt and rock salt Woods , common or exotic and boxwood

ex 158 Onions

171-171 Wines , exclusively the produce of bis fermentation of grapes

172 ter
ex 174

Beer Distilled beverages · spirits .....

Free 15 35
30%
Free Free
Free 50% 25% 135

A930

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - FRANCE Section I New Caledonia and Dependencies,
PART Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

New Caledonia Tariff Item
Number 190 210 211 212
ex 311 312 361
ex 419
438 bis to 441 ter
ex 443
451
459 P.30
459 P.

Description of Products
Coal, crude or coke and cinders of coal ..
Flat and broad sheets of iron or steel ...
Iron tinned (tin plate ) coated with copper, lead or zino .....
Wire of iron or steel .... Toilet soap , not containing sugar or alcohol
Soap , other than of perfumery ....... Incandescent electric lamps with carbon filaments
Hosiery of cotton, including so-called Persian thread , beraudine or lisle thread pure or mixed:
other articles of all kinds, including alothing or parts of clothing, made up or not ......
Drapery and other tissues for furniture or clothing
Wool hosiery:
other articles of all kinds , including clothing and parts of clothing ......
Woollen blankets and carpets
Hosiery of silk or floss silk pure or mixed together or with other textiles other than artificial silk or materials assimilated thereto , the silk or floss silk representing more than 15% of total weight :
other articles of all kinds , including clothing and parts of clothing , made up or not Hosiery of artificial silk or of materials assimilated thereto , pure or containing more than 15% in weight of these materials

Rate of Duty Free
5% 10% 20% 10% 20%
15% 10%
15% 10%
10% 15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A931

Section X

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE New Caledonia and Dependencies,
PART I Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

New Caledonia Tariff Item
Number ax 476 ter
ex 482
483 485 486 4.87 488-489 4.90

Description of Products
Hides and skins curried :
mall:
of sheep , prepared by vegetable or mineral taming, not scraped, dyed, matt or smooth for footwear linings .
big: of oow
other ...
Maxfactures of skin and leather, natural or artificial:
low shoes:
of skin, leather, tissue of silk pure or mixed .... shoes extending up to the ankle slippers lined or not lined ...... footwear for children , with sales of leather or skin less than 17 ans. length ..... artioles of fine saddlery (other than saddles) ..... saddles
harness makers ' wares Hose, transmission belts and cords and other articles of leather or hide for machines .
portmanteaux: of wood or cardboard covered with leather ..... wholly of leather

Rate of Duty
Free Free Free
10% 10% 10% 10% 40% 10% 10% Free
15% 15%

A932

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

New Caledonia Tariff Item
Number 491
492
522 523 524 ex 524 bis
525 ter ex 525 quinquies ex 525 quinquies ex 527 bis
ox 560-562 bis 567

SCHEDULE XI · FRANCE Section K. New Caledonia and Dependencies
PART I. Most-Favoured -Nation Tariff

Description of Products
Morocco leather ware : flexible hard
Clothing of all kinds , without fur parts , lined or not with tissues ... ....
valises , handbags , travelling bags , camera cases , sporting gun cases , musical instrument cases , etc. waistbelts of figured leather ..... other articles not elsewhere mentioned
Agricultural machines and spare parts thereof , except engines Sewing machines Dynamo-electric machines Electric and electro-technical apparatus :
for domestic use .... Typewriters .... Machines, complete , used for the refinement of all ores Machines , complete , not elsewhere mentioned :
machines for extraction of ores Refrigerating machines and apparatus :
weighing less than 500 kg, Cables of iron or steel of any thickness ..
Tubes and pipes of iron or steel

Rate of Duty
157 15% 10%
15% 15% 15% Free
10%
10% 6%
Free
5%
10% Free 10%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A933

New Caledonia Tariff Item
Humber ex 568
576 ter 576 quater
ex 620

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Section K. New Caledonia and Dependenoies
PART I Most Favoured-Nation Tariff
Description of Products
Household wares and all articles of iron, steel or black sheet iron not olsewhere mentioned :
painted, polished, lead-coated , sinocoated, galvanized or varnished ..... Electric accumulators and parts thereof, imported separately Dry cells Manufactures of rubber and gutta peroha : tyre treads , covers , air tubes or pnoumatic tyres

Rate of Duty
10% 20% 10%
10%

PART II Freferential Tariff
NIL.

A934

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI FRANCE Section L. Reunion
PART I Most-Favoured- Nation-Tariff

Reunion

Description of Products

68
197 bis A
197 bis B
197 ter B

Wheat flour
Benzine for touring, of foreign origin ...
Benzine other than for touring , of foreign origin
Petroleum, schist and other mineral oils, refined, for lighting purposes , of foreign origin .
PART II Proforential Tariff

Rate Duty
3% 18% 18%
18%

197 bis A
197 bis B
197 ter B

Benzine for touring , on removal from controlled factories in the metropolitan territory... ....
Benzine other than for touring , on removal from controlled factorios in the metropolitan territory ....
Petroleum, schist and other minoral oils , refined, for lighting purposes , on removal from controlled factories in the metropolitan territory

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A935

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Seation - Saint-Pierre and Miquelon
PART I Most-Favoured-Nation Tarifi

Saint-Pierre

Rate

and Miquelon ariff Item

Description of Products

of

Number

Duty

6

1 Ex 6
14
17 82 41 42 x 57 57 145 185 200
205 206
200 210 211 212 213

Animals , living: of any kind

Free

Meat preserved in tins

Free

Milk, whole, condensed or sweetened and

milk food

3%

Butter, fresh, melted or salted

1%

Wheat flour

Free

Fresh fruits

Free

Potatoes ·

Free

Cigars and cigarettes

10%

Smoking and chewing tobacco , snuff

20%

Compound med Loines

20%

Shoes, boots , slippers and footwear of any

kind of leather or hide , lined or not .....

Free

Machines and other apparatus , mohine tools,

balances, weighing machines and spare parts

of cast iron, iron, steel or other metal ;

machines other than steam machines, marine engines, marine motors , electric and electro

technical apparatus, and typewriters and

calculating mohines

0%

Wire gause and wire netting, perforated sheets 5%

Sewing needles, knitting needles , orochet hooks ,

pins, clasps, pens in metal other than gold

and silver

.....

5%

Manufactures of moulded cast-iron of any kind

5%

Manufactures of iron or steel, structual iron or steel wares of any kind

Looksadthe wares of any kind

Dory anchors , weighing less than 8 Kgs .
Anchors, cables and chains of iron or steel and barbed wire other

A936

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Section - Saint-Pierre and Miquelon
PART I Most Favoured-Nation Tariff

Saint-Pierre

Rate

and Miquelon

Description of Products

of

Tariff Item

Duty

Number

214 Nails and wire taaks of any kind and any size

5%

215 Screws , screwrings, hinge-pins, iron hooks,

rivets and all bolt or sorewmakers ' wares

not elsewhere montioned ....

8%

216 Stove pipes of metal , galvanized or not ....

8%

216 Tubes of iron or steel , welded or not and

joints of all kinds ....

5%

219 Deodorising apparatus

5%

Ex 220

Manufactures of copper pure or alloyed with zine and tin ( lampmakers and tinsmiths' wares; articles and other manufactures not elsewhere mentioned , burnished , polished or varnished ) manufactures of copper , except household wares

221 Pipes and other manufacturos of lead of all

kinds ....

5%

222 Electric accumulators

5%

Ex 223 Pewter ware and other manufactures of tin

pure or alloyed, except household wares ....

5%

Ex 224 Manufactures of zine of all kinds , varnished ,

polished, nickelled , printed , decorated, gilt,

except household wares

5%

Ex 225 Manufactures of nickel alloyed with copper

or zino or of niokelled metals , except house-

hold wares

0%

245

Manufactures of rubber , gutta-peroha and

asbestos , of all kinds , including clothing

rubberised or not

246

Topboots and footwoar of rubber or rubberised

tissues .....

PART II

Preferential Tariff

N11

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -- OCT. 30, 1947

A937

Tunisia Tarifr Itom
Number

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Seotion N · Tunisia
PART I Most Favoured-Nation Tariff
Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 133 177

Impregnated telegraph posts ........
Stones , wrought , soulptured , moulded or polished and soulptured sepulchral monuments:

porphyroid granite

othor.....

198 C Other heavy mineral oils , unpurified , including derivatives and rosidues not elsewhere oovored
(lubricating oils )

198 bis
198 ter
198 Quater
198 quinquies Ex 345

Gas oils Fuel oils
Road oils and soft pitch Hard pitch Faience , fine, not ornamented, covered with glaze of uniform colour

Ex 346 Pottory of fine paste , ornamented, glazed

347A Porcelain ware, decoratod

Ex 347 bis
Ex 350

Insulators of porcelain Hollow-glass ware of glass and orystal :
plain, moulded , white or of natural colour

tinted in the mass and of one colour.....

smoothed, cut or engraved otherwise than for the purpose of rubbing out marks of the bond known as " pointil" .....

decorated with gold , coloured or otherwise

5%
10% 10%
5% 5% Free Free Free 10% 10% 10% 10%
10% 10%
10% 10%

A938

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Tunisia Tariff Item
Yumbor

SCHEDULE XI - FRANOR Seotion N- Tunisia
PART I Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff
Description of Products

Ex 350
Ex 358 Ex 358
496 bis
Ex 512

Articles for lighting purposes :
glasses or chimneys for lighting purposee1:
of ordinary glass .....
of finer glass known as orystal or of crystal .....
reflectors , lamp shades , globes or glass screens (verrines ) :
multicoloured, decorated with gold or otherwise cut or engraved ..........
other ....
Bends of glass and other small glassware in grains out or pierced ....
Spum glass, balls and artificial soralof glass
Imitation jewelry:
aluminium , German silvor , niokel , oopper, steel , iron , zino , tin , lead, gilt, silvered coppered , oxidized , with or without ornaments ; of fine steel with points
copper, German silver, nickel , treated with aqua fortis , varnished , enamelled, polished, niokoled with or without ornaments
mourning jewelry of iron, ornamented with glass beads or hardened wood; sino, lead, iron, ordinary stool , nickeled; zinc, lead, iron , ordinary stoel, polished or varnishod with fittings
zine , lead, iron and ordinary steel , without fittings or ornaments,
Agricultural and other tractors

*

** **

Rate of Duty
108 10$
10%
10% 10% 10%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A939

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Section N · Tunisia
PART I Most Favoured-Nation Tariff

Tunisia Tarfff Itom
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

522 Agricultural machines , designated in special decrees on the subject (Decrees of 9 Sept.1883 and other subsequent decrees ) ...................

622 Other agricultural mohines (not including engines).......
624A Dynamo- electric machines and industrial electric transformers, dry or in oil¸ ····· .

624B Dynamo-electric machines for equipping motor vehicles of all kinds ( cars, ships , airships, aircraft etc. ) ........

Ex 524 bia N
527 bis

Domestic refrigerators 
Refrigerating apparatus for merchant- ships and other

633 Detached and componont parts of machines , of wrought iron, wrought or moulded stool , having been bored, turned, filed or finished ......
646G Balloons , animals, dolls and various articles of moulded rubber, decorated or not

Free $$ 10%
10% 10% 10%
10% 10%

Note: I · The French Govornment undertakes on
behalf of the Tunisian Government to import annually 1,700 metric tons of tobacco leaves and 10 metric tons , net weight , of oigarettes , from territories not part of the French Union .
II - A working margin of 10% is authorised provided there is the possibility of carrying amounts forward from oro yoar to the next, in such a way that the total imports for a period of 3 years shall be not less than 5,100 metric tons of tobacco leaves and 30 metrie
tons , net woight , of cigarettes
III The foregoing undertaking of the French Government is made subject to the application of provisions of Articles XII and XIV of the General Agrooment on Tariffs and Trado.

A940

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

Tunisia Tariff Item Number

SCHEDULE XI - FRANCE Section N - Tunisia
PART II Preferential Tariff
Description of Products
Nil

Rate of Duty

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A941

SCHEDULE XII - INDIA This Schedule is authentic only in the English language
PART I Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

2 Bx 4 Ex 4 Bx 4(1)
Bx 4(1)
Bx 4(1) Ex 7
Ex 8 Ex 8 8(1) Ix 9(3) 9(6) Ex 10 Ex 12 Ex 13 Ex 13(4) Bx 15 Bx 15 15(3) 15( 5)

Bacon and Ham , not canned or bottled. Butter .... Cheese.......

25 per cent ad val 25 per cent ad val 25 per cent ad val

Milk, condensed or preserved, including milk eream, but excluding dried skim milk, that is to say, dried milk powder containing not more than 4 per cent of fat and no added ingredients
Dried skim milk , that is to say , dried milk powder containing not more than 4 per cent of fat and no added ingredients.....
Sterilised aream...

25 per cent ad val
Free 25 per cent ad val

Dehydrated vegetables , all sorts, other than tomatoes , onions , potatoes and cauliflowers....
Apples and pears, fresh......
Prunes and grapes, fresh.......

30 per cent ad val 30 per cent ad val 30 per cent ad val

Currants...... Cassia lignea , ground or unground .............. Vanilla beans.... Rice...... Grass and clover seeds.... Cochineal.... Rosin.......

Re. 1 per cwt. 50 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val Pree 15 per sent ad val 20 per cent ad val 24 per cent ad val

Mineral grease, including petroleum jelly...... Stearine..... Tallow.....

27 per cent ad val 25 per cent ad val Free

Fish oil and whale oil, hardened or hydrogenated Rs.10 per art.

95347 0--49 pt. 5---- 60

A942

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES Li STAT .

SCHEDULE I - INDIA
PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Buty

Ex 15(6) Ex 15(8)
16

Tung oil....... Neatsfoot oil....... Canned or bottled bacon, ham and lard....

Ex 16(1) 16(1 )

Sardines and pilchards , canned.....
Fish, canned, other than canned sardines and pilchards....

30 per cent að vaå 15 per cent ad val 25 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val
20 per cent ad val

Ex 20( 1) Bx 20(2)

Juices , either individually or in mixture, of the following fruits, namely: Apricots, Berries, Grapes , Pineapple, Plums and Prunes ......
Note: The products provided for under the above item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation Customs duties which exceed the preferential rate in the case of such products of British Colonial origin, by more than 6 per cent ad val.
Canned fruits the following, namely: Apricots, Berries, Grapes , Plums and Prunes , and fruit salads composed not less than 80% in quantity and in value of the above-named fruits...... .....
Note: The products provided for under the above item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation Customs duties which exceed the preferential rate in the case of such products of British Colonial origin , by more than 6 per cent ad val.

Ix 20(2)

Pineapples , canned......
Note: The products provided for under the above item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation Customs duties which exceed the preferential rate in the case of such products of British Colonial origin, by more than 8 per cent ad val.

* 20(2) Ex 2012)

Asparagus , canned.......
Vegetables , canned , all sorts, otherthan tomatoes, potatoes , onions and cauliflowers

24 per cent ad qul 30 per cent na vnd

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A943

SCHEDULE XII INDIA
PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex. 21 Ex 21

Meat , canned...... Rennet essence.....

20 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val

Ex 21 Soups , canned or bottled......

25 per cent ad val

Ex 21 (1) Ex 21(1 ) Ex 21 ( 1 )
22(3)
Ex 22(5)

Blended flavouring concentrates for the preparation of non-alcoholic beverages... Meat , frozen...... Soups , all sorts, not otherwise specified....... Wines, not containing more than 42 per cent of proof spirit · (a) Champagne and other sparkling wines ................. .
(b) Other sorts... Spirits . (a) Bitters ·

30 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val 25 per cent ad val
Rs.16-8 per Imperial gallon Rs.9-8 per Imperial gallon

(1) entered in such a manner as to indicate that the strength is not to be tested..
(ii) not so entered .... (c) Perfumed Spirits....
(d) Rum...
Provided that -

Rs.73-2 per Imperial gallon. Rs.55-5 per Luperial gallon of the strength of London proof. Rs.60 per Imperial gailon or 25 per cent ad valorem ,whichever is higher plus one-fourth of the total duty.
Rs.55-5 per Imperial gallon of the strength of London proof.

A944

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XII INDIA
PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 22(5) (Contd. )

(a) on any article chargeable under this item with the lower rate of duty, the duty levied shall in no case be less than 30 per cent ad valorem, and on any article chargeable under this item with the higher rate of duty , the duty levied shall in no case be less than 45 per cent ad valorem;

(b) where the unit of assessment is the Imperial gallon of the Strength of London proof, the duty shall be increased or reduced in propor-
tion as the strength is greater or less than London proof.

24(3) Tobacco, unmanufactured,...........
Note: The products provided for under the above Item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation Customs duties which exceed -

(a) the preferential rate applicable to such products of British Colonial origin , and

(b) the preferential rate applicable to such products of Burmese origin, by more than the difference between Rupees seven and annas eight per pound and 10 per cent ad valorem.

27(1) Asphalt......

27 per sent ad val

Ex 27( 2) Crude and refined coal tar and coal pitch................ 27 per cent ad val

27(3) All sorts of mineral oils not otherwise specified 27 per cent ad val

Ex 28 Acetyl Salicylic acid in tablets or in powder ; Atropine Sulphate ; Cresylic acid; Hyoscine hydrobromide ; Phenobarbital ; Vitamins A and E excluding fish- liver oils...

30 per cent ad val

Ex 28 Cod-liver oil packed in containers not exceeding

14 lbs. in capacity......

30 per cent ad val

Ex 28 Iodine, in crude form..... Ex 28 Lactose ( sugar of milk) ...

30 per cent ad val 30 per cent ad val

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30 , 1947

A945

SCHEDULE XII - INDIA
PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 28 Menthol.....

24 per cent ad val

Ex 28 Penicillin and its products .......

30 per cent ad val

Ex 28 Antibiotics such as streptomycin, gramicidin, tyrocidine and tyrothricin...

30 per cent ad val

Ex 28 Sulpha drugs and vitamin preparations other than

fish-liver oils.....

30 per cent ad val

Ex 28 Chemicals , Drugs and Medicines , all sorts not otherwise specified excluding ·-

(a) Menthol (b) Penicillin and its products
Cod liver oil Crude Iodine
e) Lactose ( sugar of milk) (f) Sulpha drugs and vitamin preparations other
than fish- liver oils
(g) Antibiotics such as streptomycin , gramicidin , Tyrocidine and tyrothricin; and
(h) Acetyl Salicylic acid in tablets or in
powder , Atropine Sulphate, Cresylic acid, Hyoscine hydrobromide , Phenobarbital , Vitamins A and E .......

Note: The products provided for under the above Item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation Customs duties which exceed the preferential rate applicable to such products of the United Kingdom or British Colonial origin , by more than 10 per cent ad val.
28( 8) Acetic acid, Boric acid, Borax and Phenol...... 25 per cent ad val

Ex 28( 14) Tooth paste, Tooth powder , Talcum powder, Shaving soap and Shaving cream....

30 per cent ad val

Ex 30 Paints, solutions and compositions containing dangerous petroleum within the meaning of the Indian Petroleum Act , 1934......

24 per cent ad val

Ex 30 Lithopone......

30 per cent ad val

A946

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XII - INDIA
PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Ex 30(1) Dyes derived from coal tar , the following, namely:

Alizarine moist exceeding 20 per cent... Alizarine red........
Azo dyes..... Sulphur black.. Sulphur dyes of other colours... Ultrazols......
Vats , powder ....

Ex 30(1)

Dyes derived from coal tar , and coal tar
derivatives , used in any dyeing process , all sorts, other than Alizarine moist exceeding 20 per cent , Alizarine red, Azo dyes , Sulphur black, Sulphur dyes of other colours , Ultrazols and vats , powder ....

Ex 30( 2) ( a) Ultramarine blue:

( 1) in packing of 1 lb. or over....

(ii) in packing of lb. and over but less than 1 lb......
( iii) in packing of lb. and over but less than lb.... ............
(iv) in packing of less than 1 lb.......

31(4) Camphor..

Ex 35

Nitrate of Soda , when imported in a form indicative of its use for manurial purposes....

Ex 40 Douglas Fir ...

Ex 44 Cigarette paper in rolls and bobbins....

Rx 45 Fountain pens , complete......

Rate of Duty
12 per cent ad val 12 per cent ad val 12 per cent ad val 12 per cent ad val 12 per cent ad val 12 per cent ad val 12 per cent ad val
12 per cent ad val
30 per cent ad val or Rs.8-8 per cwt,, whichever is highe 30 per cent ad val or Rs. 11-4 per cwt., whichover is higher 30 per cent ad val or Rs. 17 per owt. , whichever is higher. 30 per cent ad val or Rs.24 per owt. , whichever is higher 50 per cent ad val
Free 20 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val 30 per cent ad val

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A947

SCHEDULE XII - INDIA
PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

46(2) Wool, raw, and wooltops.......

Free.

Ex 49(b) Textile manufactures , the following articles when made wholly or mainly of any of the cotton fabrios specified in Item No. 48( 3) , namely: -

Cross-stitch, drawn-thread or otherwise ombroidered bed sheets ; bed spreads ; bolster cases; counterpanes; cloths , table ; cloths ,
tray; covers, bed; covers , table; dusters; glass-cloths; handkerchiefs ; napkins; pillow cases; pillow slips ; scarves; shirts; shawls ; sacks ( cotton) ; towels and umbrella coverings

50 per cent ad val

49(2) Ribbons.......

50 per cent ad val

Ex 52 Lace and trimmings , made of cotton or linen .... 25 per cent ad val

Ex 53 Linen embroideries....

25 per cent ad val

Ex 55 Fezes...

20 per cent ad val

Ex 55 Straw hats......

20 per cent ad val

Ex 55 Hats , caps and bonnets , all sorts , excluding Fezes , Pith hats and Helmets and Straw hats.... 20 per cent ad val

Ex 60(2) Electric lighting bulbs for torches and automobiles....
Ex 60(3) Glass beads and false pearls.....
68( 1 ) Zino, unwrought , including cakes , ingots , tiles ( other than boiler tiles) , hard or soft slabs and plates, dust , dross and ashes...
Ex 70( 1) Copper , unwrought ....
Ex 70(1 ) Lead , pig.....

50 per cent ad val 50 per cent ad val
Free Free Free

Ex 71

Articles of imitation Jewellery ( including buttons and other fasteners) which consist of, or include , base metal plated with gold or silver or both and in which the proportion of gold or silver or both together to total metallic contents is less than 1.5 per cent ....

30 per cent ad val

A948

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT

SCHEDULE XII · INDIA
PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 71 Stoves for use with kerosene , gasolene or other

liquid fuels and burners therefor..

20 per cent så val

Ex 71 (2) Safety razors and parts therefor , including blades ..

30 per cent ad val

Ex 72 Boot and shoe manufacturing machinery.... Ex 72 Cinema-projecting apparatus.....

10 per cent ad val 10 per cent ad val

Ex 72 Metal-working machinery other than machine tools .....

10 per cent ad val

Ex 72 Mining machinery.... Ex 72 Oil-crushing and refining machinery ...... Ex 72 Petroleum and gas-well drilling equipment ......

10 per cent ad val 10 per cent ad val 10 per cent ad val

Ex 72 Refrigerating machinery other than domestic refrigerators ...

10 per cent ad val

Ex 72 Sound-recording apparatus for the production of

cinema films ....

10 per cent ad val

Ex 72 Sugar-manufacturing and refining machinery..... 10 per cent ad val

Ex 72( 1 ) Machines for the carding , spinning and washing

of wool.......

10 per cent ad val

Ex 72(3)

Component parts of boot and shoe manufacturing machinery , cinema projecting apparatus , metal working machinery other than machine tools , mining machinery , oil crushing and refining machinery, petroleum and gas -well drilling equipment , refrigerating machinery other than domestic refrigerators , sound -recording appara-
tue for the production of cinema films , sugar manufacturing and refining machinery and machines for the carding , spinning and washing of wool, namely, such parts only as are essential for the working of the machine or apparatus and have been given for that purpose some special shape or quality which would not be essential for their use for any other purpose, but excluding electric motors , belting and steel belt

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A949

SCHEDULE II - INDIA
PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 72(3) lacing, wire healds , bobbins and pickers.... contd.
72(4) Passenger lifts and component parts and accessories thereof...
72(5) Domestic refrigerators and parts therefor such as are specially designed for use with such refrigerators...........
Ex 72( 6) Typewriters......

Ex 72(6) Component parts of typewriters ......

Ex 72(6)

Office machines all sorts , not otherwise
specified , operated by manual labour or requiring for their operation less than one quarter of one brake-horse power and component parts thereof....

Ex 72( 8) Ploughs and parts thereof.. Ex 72( 8) Agricultural tractors and parts thereof....... Ex 72(8) Hay presses... Ex 72(9) Milking machines ...

Ex 73(2) Carbons , electric....... Ex 73(2) Electro-medical apparatus .....
Ex 73(4) Complete wireless receivers...
Ex 73(4) Electric valves specially designed for wireless reception instruments ......
Ex 73(4) Component parts of wireless reception instruments other than electric valves ....
Ex 73(4) Combination radio-phonographs ..

Ex 73(4) Tireless transmission apparatus.....

Note: The products provided for under the above item shall be exempt from the ordinary most-

10 per cent ad val 25 per cent ad val
30 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val
20 per cent ad val Free Free Free Free 20 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val 50 per cent ad val 50 per cent ad val 50 per cent ad val 54 per cent ad val 30 per cent ad val

A950

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIL - INDIA
PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

favoured-nation Oustoms duties which exceed the preferential rate in the case of goods of U.K. origin, by more than 10 per cent ad val.

Ex 74(2) Wooden railway sleepers....

75(1 )

Motor cars including taxicabs and articles (other than rubber tyres and tubes) adapted for use as parts and accessories thereof, provided that such articles as are ordinarily also used for other purposes than as parts and accessories of motor vehicles included in this item or in
items Nos. 75( 2) and 75( 3) shall be dutiable at the rate of duty specified for such articles...

15 per cent ad val .........

Note: Provided this Agreement does not cease to be in force in the meantime , the products provided for under the above item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation Oustoms duties which exceeds the preferential rate for
such products of United Kingdom origin

(a) by more than 6 per cent ad val for the first period of three years from the date on which this Agreement comes into force;

(b) by more than 3 per cent ad val from the beginning of the fourth year of coming into force of this Agreement ; and
(o) by any amount , from the beginning of the seventh year of coming into foroe of this Agreement.
76 Aeroplanes, aeroplane parts, aeroplane engines , aeroplane engine parts and rubber tyres and tubes used exclusively for aeroplanes.....
Ex 77(2) Optical instruments......
Ex 78 One-day alarm clocks......

3 per sent ad val 20 per cent ad val 50 per cent ad val

79 Musical instruments and parts thereof, all sorts and records for talking machines......
Ex 84 Fishing hooks.....

50 per cent ad val 30 per cent ad val

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A951

SCHEDULE XII INDIA
PART (Concluded)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Ex 87 Wallboards of wood fibre....

Rate of Duty 25 per cent ad val

GENERAL NOTES

(1)

The references in this Schedule to the

Indian Customs Tariff item numbers , Descrip-

tion of Produots , Rate of Duty, etc. shall be

construed with reference to the First Schedule

to the Indian Tariff Act , 1934, as reproduced in the Indian Customs Tariff ( Twenty-Seventh Issue) as compiled by the Department of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, India , and copies of which were furnished to all

Delegations attending the Second Session of

the Preparatory Committee of the United

Nations Conference on Trade and Employment , read with the notes and amendments thereto

oirculated under Conference Secretariat doou-

ment K/PC/T/TRF/14 , dated the 7th May, 1947 , and the subsequent amendments based on the

Indian Tariff ( Amendment ) Act , 1947, also circulated to Delegations by the Conference Secretariat.

(2) The expression "not otherwise specified" in the description of products in column 2 of this Schedule, unless the context indicates to the contrary, shall be construed as " not otherwise specified" in the Indian Customs
Tariff referred to in the previous note.

A952

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XII - INDIA PART II
Preferential Tariff

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 73(4) Complete wireless receivers ......

44 per cent ad val

Ex 73(4) Electric valves specially designed for wireless 44 per cent ad val reception instruments ....

Ex 73(4) Component parts of wireless reception instruments other than electric valves...

Ex 73(4) Wireless transmission apparatus.....

 Note:

This preferential rate of duty shall
be deemed to be bound against increase only for such time as the Trade Agreement of 1939 between the United Kingdom and India remains in force.

44 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val

GENERAL NOTE
The references in this Schedule to the Indian Customs Tariff item numbers , Description of Products , Rate of Duty , etc. shall be construed with reference to the First Schedule
to the Indian Tariff Act , 1934 , as reproduced in the Indian Customs Tariff ( Twenty- Seventh Issue) as compiled by the Department of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics , India , and copies of which were furnished to all Delegations attending the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment , read with the notes and amendments thereto oirculated under Conference Secretariat document E/PC/T/TRF/14 , dated the 7th May, 1947, and the subsequent amendments based on the Indian Tariff (Amendment ) Act , 1947 , also circulated to Delegations by the Conference Secretariat .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A953

SCHEDULE XIII · NEW ZEALAND. This schedule is authentic only in the English language
PART I. Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 1 Live animals, viz.:- Horses .....

Free

2 Animals , food for, of all kinds , n.e.i. , viz.:Oilcake ....
Note. Oilcake provided for under Tariff Item Ex 2 shall be exempt from most-favourednation customs duties which exceed the auties on such product under the British Preferential Tariff by more than 20 per centum ad valorem.

.....

rain and pulse, unground and unmanufactured, viz. : Ex (4) No.i. , viz.:- Soya beans......... Per cental 28. (1)

7 Onions ......

Per ton £2.10s. (1)

11 Vegetables, viz.:Ex (2 ) Fresh vegetables n.e.i....

35% (1)

15 Cocoa-beans, raw

Per lb. d (2)

16 Cocoa and chocolate , viz :-

(1) Cocoa; also cocoa-beans roasted or

crushed

...... Per lb. 6d. (1)

20

(2) Chocolate ; also cocoa or chocolate mixed with milk or with any other food substance..
17 Coffee, raw ...... Note. The product provided for under Tariff Item 17 shall be exempt from most-favourednation customs duties which excced the duties on such product under the British Preferential Tariff by more than 1d. per lb.
20 Fruit-juices unsweetened, in containers having a capacity of 1 gallon or over
21 Fruit-juices unsweetened, in containers having a capacity of less than 1 gallon ; fruit - juices sweetened; syrups ne.i.; raspberry-vinegar, sweetened ...................

45% (1) ....
Free (3) 35% (1)

222

22 Citrus-fruit pulps ( including fruit-juices containing such percentage of citrus -fruit pulp as may be determined by the Minister ) sweetened or unsweetened, in bulk or otherwise

25% (1)

2

A954

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XII · NEW ZEALAND. PART I (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

23 Tea, in bulk - viz. , in packages of 5 lb. or over net weight of tea ..... Note. The product provided for under Tariff Item 23 shall be exempt from most-favourednation customs duties which exceed the
duties on such product under the British Preferential Tariff by more than 1d. per lb.

24 Tea ne.i......
Note. The product provided for under Tariff Item 24 shall be exempt from most-favourednation customs duties which exceed the duties on such product under the British Preferential Tariff by more than 1d. per lb.

123

31 Cocon or cacao butter, coconut butter, and other vegetable butters or fats .........

Free (3)

32

32 (2 ) Confectionery ne.i. , including medicated confectionery, liquorice n.e.i. , and sugared or crystallized fruits ......

45% (1)

34 Stearine, on declaration that it will be used only in the manufacture of candles , matches , soaps ,

leather, or other articles approved by the

Minister

....... Per lb.

(1)

35

35 Fish, viz.: -

(3) Fish, potted, and preserved, ne.i. ,

including any liquor, oil, or

sauce .......

Per lb. 21d. (1)

Fruits, dried - viz.:Ex (1 ) Dates, prunes

Free (3)

336

(2 ) Raisins ............

Per lb. id. (2)

Ex (4) Ne.i. , viz.:- Apricots

Per lb. ld

37

37 Fruits, fresh · viz, :-
Ex (2) Grapes July 1 to November 30 inclusive ... Per lb. 1d. December 1 to June 30 inclusive ... Per lb. 2d. 83

(3) Lemons

Per lb. ld (1)

Ex (5 ) Oranges

...Per lb. d. (2)

8

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A955

SCHEDULE XIIPART I (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

39 Fruits preserved in juice or syrup, viz.:Pineapples

35% (1)

Prunes ......

25% (1)

Note. Prunes preserved in juice or syrup provided for under Tariff Item 39 shall be

exempt from most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the dutics on such

product under the British Preferential Tariff.

Bananas; cashews; goiavas; oranges Other kinds ......

45% (1) 471% (1)

40 Trees and plants, viz. : -
(1) Fruit trees and plants, viz. , apple, apricot , blackberry, cherry, currant , gooseberry, lemon, lime , logan-berry, nectarine , orange, peach, pear, plum, quince, and raspberry... 35% (2)

( 2 ) Flowering trees and plants, viz. , rose ..... 35% (2)

41 Glucose, grape sugar, and caramel

Free (3)

42 Honey ..............

.Per lb. 32. (1)

Ex 49 Meats, potted or preserved, viz. , Pates de foie gras. 30% (1)

52 Nuts, and preparations thereof, viz. ; Ex (1 ) Nuts, shelled or unshelled, n.e.i. , viz.: Brazil nuts, coconuts, palmmuts, peanuts ... Free (3)
(4) Walnuts, shelled or unshelled........ Per lb. 2d. (1)
61 Provisions , viz.:Ex (1) Soups; spaghetti and similar alimentary pastes, cooked, whether or not in combination with other food substances ..... 40% (1)

Ex ( 2 ) N. e.i. , viz.:Canned beans

40% (1)

Ê

62 Rice, dressed or undressed; rice-meal refuse and rice-meal .......

Free (3)

A956

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT .

SCHEDULE XIII · NEW ZEALAND. PART I (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

65 Spices, unground, viz. :-
(1) Cinnamon, cloves , ginger, mace , nutmeg, pepper, and vanilla

Ex 67

(2 ) N.e.i......

Arrowroot; sago ; tapioca Maizena; cornflour ...

.Per lb.

Note. Maizena and cornflour provided for under

Tariff Item Ex 67 shall be exempt from most-favoured-nation customs duties which

exceed the duties on such products under

the British Preferential Tariff by more than d. per lb.

71 (2) Free (3)
(2)

74 Cigarettes ne.i....
75 Cigarettes, exceeding in weight 2 lb. per 1,000 ... Note. The products provided for under Tariff Items 74 and 75 shall be exempt from most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the duties on such products under the British Proferential Tariff.

.....

81 (1 ) Tobacco, unmanufactured, entered to be manufactured in New Zealand in any bonded tobacco-factory licensed under the Tobacco ct ,
1908 , for manufacturing purposes only, into cigarettes .......

.....

(2) Tobacco, unmanufactured, entered to be manufactured in New Zealand in any bonded tobacco-factory licensed under the Tobacco Act , 1908, on declaration that it will be used only
in the manufacture of tobacco, cigars, or snuff
Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item 81 shall be exempt from most -favourednation customs duties which exceed the duties on such products under the British Preferential Tariff.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A957

SCHEDULE XIII - NEW ZEALAND. PART I (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

84 Spirits, viz. : (3) Spirits, and spirituous mixtures, the strength of which can be ascertained by Sikes's hydrometer or other similar
instrument , viz.:(a ) Rum .....

Ex (b) Other kinds , viz.:- Brandy, gin .......... Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item
84(3) (a) and Ex (b) shall be exempt from surtax.

Ex 86

Perfumed spirits including Cologne water packed in

bottles of a capacity not exceeding 4 fluid

ounces ....

..Per liquid gallon

or

90s. (1) 40% whichever rate returns the
higher duty.

90 Ex 95

Wine containing not more than 40 per cent. of proof spirit, viz. :Ex (1 ) Sparkling, viz.:- Champagne ; per gallon, or for six reputed quart bottles , or the reputed equivalent in bottles of a larger or smaller reputed capacity .....
Acids - viz.:- Oleic .....

15s. (1) Free (3)

995 8

97 Bacteriological products , including viruses, sera, serum extracts , vaccines, antigens , and preparations containing such substances, as may be approved by the Minister

Free ()

Ex 100 103

Chloroform; ethyl ether; other general or local anaesthetics, as may be approved by the Minister; creosote refined; camphor, creosol , guaiacol , iodoform, menthol , mercurochrome , naphthols , resorcin, thymol , thymol iodide , and such other substances (excluding penicillin ) specially suited for use as antiseptics as the Minister may approve ..............
Dextrine no.i...

20% (2) Free (3)

95347 0 49 - pt. 5 61

A958

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIII - NEW ZEALAND. PART I (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Ite
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 105
107 108

Drugs and chemicals , viz. :Acetone; anyl alcohol ; butyl alcohol ; bromine; calcium carbide ; carbon bisulphide ; carbon tetrachloride and other chlorides of carbon; chlorinated hydro-carbons n.e.i.; catechu; cochineal ; formic aldehyde, and solutions thereof; fusel-oil; gall-nuts; iodine; liquorice in blocks of 7 lb. net and over, or soft liquorice extract in bulk in vessels capable of containing 7 lb. net or over; phosphorus; pyridine; quinine , and salts of quinine ; saffron; strychnine, and salts of strychnine; turmeric, unground; wood-naphtha, commercial ; nicotine and its salts ......
Lrugs, chemicals, and other substances, as may be enumarated by the Minister, specially suited for use as culture media, stains for use in microscopic work, or as indicators for chemical
analysis or scientific investigation ...............
Drugs, orude, not powdered, and unsuited for use as foods, or in the manufacture thereof viz. , barks, woods, twigs, leaves, herbs, flowers (except hops), roots, corms , guns, resins, balsams, inspissated juices (including opium), seeds, fruits, fruit-rinds, pitch, cantharides, ergot .......

Free (3) Free (3) Frue (3)

G

T

113 Essences, culinary or flavouring , ne.i......
115 Essential oils ................
118 Guma and resins · viz. , arabic, benzoin, danmar, tragacanth and Indian gum; shellac .............
120 (1) Insulin; preparations made from animal glands or tissues as may be approved by the Minister
121 (1) Medicinal preparations (except wines) containing 50 per cent. of proof spirit or less; medicinal preparations, drugs, druggists ' sundries, and apothecaries ' wares, ne.i.; also aerated-water makers ' , cordial-makers ' , and brewers ' drugs , chemicals, and other sundries, ne.i ; ohemicals, and chemical preparations, n. e. i..................

40% (1) Free Free (3) Free ()
40% (1)

(2 ) Medicinal preparations n.c.i. , packed in hermetically sealed glass vessels of a capacity not exceeding 15 cubic centimetres ........

20% (2)

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A959

SCHEDULE XIII - NEW ZEALAND PART I (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Namber

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 124 134

Oxides of antimony and of zinc ......
Surgeons' , physicians ' , dentists ' , and opticians ' appliances, instruments and materials, viz.:(1) Appliances (including splints ) for wear, even if medicated, peculiarly adapted to correct a deformity of the human body, to afford support to an abnormal condition of the human body, or to reduce or alleviate such condition, or to substitute any part of such body; stump socks; crutches; ear
trumpeta; oar tubus, and audiphonos , før the partially deaf ......

Free (3) Froe

(2) Surgical and dental instruments , also operation chairs specially suited for
dentists ' use; dentists ' spittoons, selfflushing types; opticians ' trial cases, frames, spectacles, plain spectacle-cases, test cards and diagrams ; also such other instruments and appliances peculiar to surgeons' dentists ' or opticians ' use as may be enumerated in any order of the
Minister; medicated remedial plaster or plasters .........

25% (2)

Ex (3) Surgeons ' , physicians ' , and dontists' materials, viz. , antiseptic dressings, gauzes, lint, tow, poroplastic felt,

adhesive plaster not including medicated

remedial plaster or plasters, spongiopiline, bandages, catgut, and sterilized

and other sewings , artificial teeth, tooth

crowns, celluloid blanks, base plates, denture-strengtheners, guttapercha stick,

points, and pellets, amadou absorbent ,

porcelain powder, enamel , inlays, modelling
composition , investment compound, cement and absorbent paper; also such other

materials peculiar to surgeons ' physicians '

or dentists ' use as may be enumerated in

any order of the Minister .....

10% (2)

A960

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIII · NEW ZEALAND. PART I ( continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

135 Scientific and philosophical instruments and apparatus viz.: assay balances ; chemical balances, sensitive to 2 milligrammes or less; laboratory retorts, laboratory flasks , and other instruments, and apparatus, peculiarly suited for chemical analysis and assay work; assay furnaces;
retorts, dishes, and other apparatus, of fused silica or platinum, for use in chemical manufacture, or in a laboratory; mioroscopes , telescopes, and magnifying-glasses; also such instruments, and apparatus, specially suited for scientific and philosophical purposes, as may be approved by the Minister ....
136 Apparel , clothing, and hosiery, viz.:Ex (4)(a ) Gloves , and mittens , other than those composed wholly or principally of leather, rubber, or asbestos ....

(b) Gloves, and mittens , composed wholly or principally of leather

Ex (7) Ne.i. , viz.:-
Women's and girls ' outer garments of woven fabrics .........

Hosiery, viz. , socks or stockings of artificial silk or nylon ..
143 Braids, and bindings , all kinds, n.e.i.; cords, n.e.i. , of wool, cotton, silk, imitation silk, artificial silk, or of combinations of these materials with one another or with any other material ... ...............

146 Buttons, crochet, and similar .... 149 Cotton, raw

151 Drapery ne.i.....

Rate of Duty
20% (2) 40% 50% (1) 65% (1) 65% (1)
30% (1) 20% (2) Free (3) 40% (1)

8

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A961

SCHEDULE XIII - NEW ZEALAND. PART I (continued)

New Zealand) Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

152 Elastics, all kinds, including boot and brace

elastics ; elastic threads and cords; plain tape

of cotton, linen, or jute ; webbings , all kinds,

including elastic webbings ; dressmakers '

beltings, including cotton petershams, whether

plain or circular woven, or reinforced; woven

looping and labels, for boots; labels, and hangers ,

woven, for clothing and other textile articles,

including hanger material , plain or otherwise ,

n.e.i.; chain coat-hangers; woven bandings, bands,

tapes, and similar articles (not including arm-

bands and hat-bands ), with printed, woven, or

embroidered lettering, trade-name , or trade- mark, suited for use with boots or other apparel

10% (2)

Ex 153 Feathers, ornamental; artificial flowers leaves or sprays .....

45% (1)

159 Floor coverings, viz. :-

Ex (1 ) Carpets, floor coverings, floor-rugs, mats,

and matting (excluding mats , and matting,

of coir, raffia, rattan, straw, rush, reed

or grass), ne.i.....

40%

Mats, and matting , of coir, raffia, rattan,

straw, rush, reed or grass .....

30% (1)

Ex (2) Linoleum, cork carpets , and rubber flooring,

including mats (other than rubber mats) ,

matting, and floor-rugs, of similar

material

30% (1)

160 Furs and other similar skins, and articles made therefrom, viz.:(1) Fur skins, green or sun-dried

Free (5)

( 2 ) Furs , and other similar skins , dressed or prepared, but not made up in any way ...

15% (1)

(3 ) Furs or imitation furs wholly or partly made up into apparel, rugs , or other articles ; fur trimmings and imitation fur trimmings
161 Haberdashery ne.i.....

50% (1) 40% (1)

A962

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

d

SCHEDULE XIII - NEW ZEALAND, PART I (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 164

Hats, of sisal , straw, hemp, rush, or similar vegetable material, woven or plaited, with raw finished or bound edges but otherwise unsewn; berets

50% (1)

165 Hat-hoods, felt, of wool or fur, or containing fur, unblocked and unsewn ......

Free (3)

Ex 168 Lace, and laces, n.e.i..................

35% (2)

Ex 171

Pins ne.i.; knitting-pins; needles, viz., sewing, darning, and knitting; crochet hooks; hooks and eyes for apparel .....

Free (5)

Ex 174

Sewing cottons, silks, threads, and twists
(excluding linen threads, and twists ); arewel , flourishing, embroidery, darning, knitting, and crochet threads, of silk, artificial silk, imitation silk, or cotton, or mixtures of the same, plain or fancy; gold and silver embroidery threads

180 Ex (1) Textile piece-goods, woven, of pure silk,
whether plain, hemmed, whipped, or similarly worked .....................

71% (2) 15% (3)

Textile piece-goods , woven, of raffia fibre,
whether plain, hemmed, whipped, or similarly worked .....

10% (2)

Textile piece-goods , namely, moquettes composed wholly of cotton, whether plein, hemmed, whipped, or similarly worked
182 Textile piece-goods - viz. , dress nets, curtain nets, embroidery nets , and similar nets, lace ourtain material, and veilings, all kinds; also fabrics of a like kind as may be determined by the Minister .................
183 Textile piece -goods, including textiles of wool, or containing wool, viz.:(1) Moquette and tapestry, of wool, or containing wool .......

121% 35% (2) 35% (1)

( 2 ) Ne.i......

40% (1)

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT . 30, 1947

A963

SCHEDULE XIII - NEW ZEALAND. PART I (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Ex 191 Yarn - viz. , coir ......

193 Yarns n.e.i. , viz.:(1 ) Sisal and raffia

Rate of Duty Free (3) 10%

(2) Other ......

40% (1)

194 Belts , and belting , ne.i. , for driving machinery;

conveyor belts , and belting, of rubber, textile ,

fibre, or combinations of these materials ; cordage

or rope on declaration that it will be used only

for driving machinery

20%

195 Boots, shoes , shoettes, sandals, clogs, pattens,

slippers, and goloshes namcly, children's 0 to 9

inclusive .....

20% (2)

196 (2) Slippers n.e.i......................

50% (1)

(3 ) Boots , shoes , clogs , pattens , shoettes, sandals,

and other footwear, n. e. i..

..Per pair 6s. (1) or 50%

whichever rate

returns the

higher duty.

200 Leather, viz. : (1) Bookbinders ' leather of qualities approved by the Minister and under conditions prescribed by him

Free (3)

(2) Chamois leather

30% (1)

(3) Goat-skins, and kid-skins , however dressed; persians; reptile skins, dressed or undressed
(6) (b) Patent leathers

Free (3) Free (3)



(9) Parchment or vellum made from skins 203 Leather manufactures n.e. í..

10% (2) 40%

A964

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIII - NEW ZEALAND. PART I (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

214 Chinaware, earthenware, and porcelainware , viz. , breakfast , dinner, and tea sets ; cups , saucers, plates, dishes, and such similar articles suited for table use as may be approved by the Minister..
215 Chinaware, earthenware , porcelainware, and stoneware, ne.i...

40% (2) 45% (1)

Ex 219 Glass , sheet , common window or plate (excluding safety glass ), whether polished, coloured, bent or otherwise, cut to any size or shape , n.e.i..... 10%

220 Glass, plate or sheet , in sizes not exceeding

20 superficial feet , only on declaration that it

will be used in the manufacture of bevelled or

silvered glass .....

Free

222 Glass , bevelled, silvered, or with rounded or

polished edges; mirrors , and looking -glasses,

framed or unframed

35%

225 Ex 226

Glassware n.e.i.; globes, and chimneys , for lamps, ne.i.; lamps, lanterns, and lampwick, n.e.i ......
Lamps, miners ' safety, and glasses therefor

30% (1) Free (3)

229 Stone, viz. : -
(1) Marble, in the rough, or rough-sawn, not dressed or polished

Free (3)

233 Artists' materials -- viz. , academy boards, canvas

in the piece or on stretchers, oiled paper and

drawing-paper in blocks, colours , palettes, and

palette-knives

15%

237 Clocks, time-registers, and time- detectors

40% (1)

239 Fancy goods, and toys; sporting, gaming, and

athletic requisites , m.c.i. , including billiard

requisites n.e.i .; fishing -tackle n.e.i. ,

including artificial flies and other baited hooks;

walking-sticks ; combs , hair and toilet ........

45% (1)

240 Films for cinematographs and similar instruments ... Free

242 Jewellery; plate , gold or silver; platedware

50% (1)

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A965

SOREDULE XIII - NSW ZEALAND. PART I (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

244 Magic lanterns, cinematographs, and similar
instruments, including accessories peculiar thereto n.e.i......

45% (1)

246 Mouldings in the piece, and panels, suited for use in picture -frames or furniture-making , in building construction, or for similar purposes ..
247 Musical instruments, and parts, viz.:(4) Pianos , player pianos , organs n.e.i., harmoniums, and similar instruments ...

40% (1) 20% (2)

(5) Musical instruments ne. 1..................

20% (2)

(7) Strings of metal wire, catgut, or similar

material , spucially suited for musical

instruments

Free

(s)

X * * 

248 Ex (1) Phonographs , gramophones, graphophones , and similar instruments, including accessories peculiar thereto, n.e.i. , but excluding cabinets and parts of cabinets

40% (1)

254 Photographic cameras ....

40% (1)

  0 c 

255 Photographic goods ne.i.........
258 Sensitized surfaces, and albumenized paper, plain, not being postcards or other stationery .........
261 Tobacco pipes, pouches, and cases, cigar and cigarette holders and oases .........
262 Toilet preparations, and perfumery, ne.i., including perfumed oil ......
271 Celluloid, and similar materials , plain, in sheets or rolls, unprinted, ne.i.........................

40% (1) 20% 3.5% (1) 50% (1) Free ()

Ix 279 289

Stencilling and similar inks ......
Monotype-paper, in rolls, suitable for use with monotype machine

40% (1) 10% (2)

290 Paperhangings ............ ..

20%

A966

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIII · NEW ZEALAND. PART I (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

293
Ex 295 296

Printing-paper and writing-paper, in rolls not less than 10 inches wide, wholly or partly carbon-coated on one side , on declaration that it will be used only in the manufacture of counter-check books .............
Paper, unprinted -· viz.:- True vegetable parchment..
Paper (other than wrapping paper) waxed, unprinted; also such paper printed and then waxed ........... Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item 296 shall be exempt from most-favourednation customs duties which exceed the duties on such products under the British Preferential Tariff by more than 15 per centum ad valorem.

Free (3) Free

297 Paper, celluloid, or similar materials, and wrappers made from such materials, printed, lithographed, or ruled, n.e.i.................
300 Paper, viz. :(2) N.e.i. , including tin-foil paper, and gummed paper n.e.i. , (a) In sheets of size lessthan 20 inches by 15 inches or the equivalent

50% (1) 35% (1)

(b) In sheets of size not less than

20 inches by 15 inches or the

equivalent

10%

(c) In rolls less than 10 inches wide except such rolls specially suited for industrial or similar purposes in such widths not exceeding 2 inches as the Minister may determine ....

35% (1)

(d) In rolls ne.i.................. Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item 300( 2 ) ( d) shall be exempt from most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the
duties on such products under the British Preferential Tariff
by more than 10 per centum ad valorem.



61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A967

SCHEDULE XIII - NEW ZEALAND. PART I ( continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 301 Printed books papers music or advertising-matter,

n.e.i.(excluding paper transfers)

Free

321 Firearms and fittings therefor, viz. :-
(1) Rifles, .22 calibre ; rifles, .303 calibre (including service fittings therefor); rifles, n.e.i. , of such calibres as may be authorized by the Minister of Defence (including service fittings therefor) ..... 20%

(2) Sights for military rifles, of such patterns as may be approved by the Minister; cleaning rods specially suited for use with rifles of .22 calibre , or with rifles of such calibres as may be authorized by the Minister of Defence ..... 20% (2)

be

(3) Firearms ne.i........................

40%

522 Cartridges, cartridge cases, and materials for the manufacture thereof, viz. : (1) Cartridges (a) Shot, 10 to 24 bore ..............................Per 100 5s. on 50% whichever rate returns the
higher duty.

(b) Shot, n.e.i............

50%

(c) Ball, .22 calibre .....

25%

(a) N. e.i........ 326 Fishhooks, unmounted and without attachments ..

45% 171% (2)

Ex 332 352

Adding and computing machines and instruments; accounting and book-keeping machines; combined adding and typing machines; but excluding ribbons for the foregoing machines
Cash registering machines (excluding recording paper and ribbons) ; typewriters ( including covers but excluding ribbons ) ; duplicating machines and apparatus, ne.i.; addressing machines ..

Free ( ) 20% (2)

A968

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIII - NEW ZEALAND. PART I ( continued)

New Zealand) Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

333 Agricultural implements and machinery, viz : -

Ex (2 ) N. e.i. , viz. , reapers, binders, harvesters,

and mowers ........

....

Free ( )

335 Engines, viz. :(1 ) Specially suited for use on cycles ......
(2 ) Specially suited for use on motorvehicles .... Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item 335 ( 2 ) shall be exempt from most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the duties on Buch products under the British Preferential Tariff by more than 35 per centum ad valorem.

30% (1) .....

(3 ) Specially suited for use on tractors or traction engines , on declaration that they will be used only on such tractors or traction engines
338 Machinery or appliances, electrical , viz.:Ex (1)(a ) Machinery or appliances n.e.i.peculiar to the generation of electricity, to the transformation of pressures of electric currents , or to the conversion of one type of electric current to another (excluding transformers for wireless receiving sets, also one phase and timer phase transformers up to and including 500 K.V.A. operating at pressures not exceeding 15,000 volts ); electric motors (excluding electric motors up to and including 25 B. H. P. ); slide rails for electric generators or electric motors .......

10% (2) 20%

(3) Carbons or electrodes for arc lamps, for

electric furnaces, or for electric

welding

20%

Ex (4) Electric appliances n.e.i. peculiar to

electro-plating, electro-chemistry,

electro-metallurgy, surgery

15%

Ex (4) Electrical vacuum tubes not suitable for

purposes of illumination

20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A969

SCHEDULE XIII - NEW ZEALAND. PART I ( continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

338 Machinery or appliances, electrical continued.

(5) Electric locomotives; trolly-poles or collectors for electric tram-cars or

electric locomotives; frogs, crossings,

and line-ears , for overhead conductors

for electric railways or tramways; rail

bonds with terminals attached

20%

(6 ) Metal poles or towers , specially suited for use in electrical transmission-lines .. 20%

Ex (7) Mica ....................

10%

(8) Sparking-plugs for oil engines

20%

Ex(10) (b) N.e.i. , viz.:-

Brass bases for electric-lamp bulbs;

razors , electric ......

40%

Ex 340

Electric lamps n.e.i. , not being peculiar to surgical use ( excluding table-lamps , readinglamps, bedside-lamps, of stand or clamp type) ....

342 Measuring, counting , testing, indicating , and recording machines, instruments, and appliances, n.e.i.; drawing instruments; compasses, not being watch-chain pendants

Ex 343

Machinery and engines on declaration that they will be used only for mining ( including quarrying) purposes, viz. , air compressors (not including the motive power for driving the same ), fuel economizers, capstan engines , winding engines (including drums therefor), pumps .....

344 Power driven spray pumps including outfits therefor, as may be approved by the Minister, specially suited for agricultural uses .......

Ex 348 Traction engines and tractors

25% (1) 20% (2)
15% (2) Free (3) 10%

A970

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIII- NEW ZEALAND PART I (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

351 Machinery, machines, machine tools, and appliances, viz :-

(1) Anvils, forges, and hearths, viz :-

blacksmiths ', and similar ............ ....

20%

(2) Blacksmiths' , braziers' , assay, and

treadlepower bellows .........

20%

(3) Boring and well-drilling machinery; rook drills, and diamond drills; coal cutters.. 15%

Ex (4) Blowers, and fans, viz.:- exhaust , blast,

and ventilating .......

20%

(5) Card alothing suitable for use in woollen

mills and paper mills .......

15%

(6) Grinding machines, emery, and similar; emery and similar wheels ....
(8) Sewing machines

20% Free (3)



(9) Knitting and kilting machines .....

20%

Ex(10) Peculiar to metal -working, or woodworking, viz. :(a) As may be approved by the Minister ... 20% Note. The Minister may refuse to approve the entry of any article under this item if he is satisfied that the same could
have been made economically in New Zealand.

Note.

The above-mentioned rate applies only to such machinery, machines, machine tools, and appliances, as are for the time being approved for entry under Tariff Item 351 Ex (10)(a).

Ex( 10) Peculiar to stone-working, or glass-

working ....

20%

(13) Printing machines

15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A971

SCHEDULE XIII - NEW ZEALAND. PART I (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number 352
353
Ex 354

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Machinery, machines, machine tools , engines , and appliances , as may be approved by the Minister, peculiar to use in manufacturing, industrial and similar processes, viz.:(a) Bakers' , confectioners ' , bootmaking , brick and tilemaking, flour and grainmilling , gasmaking , refrigerating , stonecrushing,. woollen-mill and hosiery-mill ; also insulators and water turbines .....
(b) Other Note. The Minister may refuse to approve the entry of any article under this item if he is satisfied that the same could have been made economically in New Zealand.
Note. The above-mentioned rates apply only to such machinery, machines , machine tools , engines, and appliances , as are for the time being approved for entry under Tariff Item 352 .
Machinery, machines , engines, and other appliances, n.e.i. , viz: Ex (6) (b) Refrigerating units having a heat removing capacity of less than 6,000 B.T.U. per hour for use in domestic type cabinets of capacities not exceeding 25 cubic feet , but not including such units when imported in or with cabinets. Note. Refrigerating units as described above, provided for under Tariff Item 353 Ex ( 6) (b) shall be exempt from most-favoured- nation customs duties which exceed the duties on such products under the British Preferential Tariff.
Artificers ' tools , n.e.i. (not including brushes or brushware , vices , and joiners ' clamps) ; and the following tools - viz. , axes, hatchets , forks , picks , mattocks ,
hammers , scythes, sheep-shears , reapinghooks, scissors ( not less than 10 inches in length) , butchers' and other cleavers and choppers, hand-saws , saw-blades machine or hand, bill-hooks , bush-hooks, and hedgeknives

15% 20%,
20% (1)
17% (2)

A972

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIII · NEW ZEALAND. PART I ( continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

356 (1) (b) Hardware, hollowware , and ironmongery, n.e.i.; manufactured or partly manufactured articles of metal , and manufactured or partly manufactured articles of metal in combination with any other material, n.e.i....
357 Metal , viz. : (1) Copper, iron, lead, tin, and other metal , in billets, blooms, ingots , or pigs

50% (1) Free

( 2 ) Aluminium, brass , copper, lead, tin, and other metal , n.e.i. , in bars or rods

(except cast bars or rods of copper

alloy) .....

10%

(4) Iron, galvanized or plain black, viz. , angle, tee, bar, bolt, channel , rod, and

rolled girders; iron girders expanded, but

otherwise unworked ....

20%

(5) Iron, viz.:-

(a) Sheet , plate (including rolled

chequered plates) , or hoop (except

hoop 6 inches in width or over),

plain, whether black, polished,

galvanized, plated, tinned, or other-

wise coated with metal , n.e.i..........

20%

(b) Corrugated sheet iron

20%

(6 ) Metal n.e.i. , viz.:- foil , leaf; hoop, plate or sheet , plain, whether in the

rough, polished, enamelled , galvanized, plated, tinned, or otherwise coated with

metal ....

10%

(7) Shafting, plain rolled, or plain turned,

but otherwise unwrought

15%

(8 ) Sheet , perforated or cellular ...

15%

Ex (10) Wire , metal , plain, n.e.i.; wire cut to

lengths, looped, twisted, or plain, suited

for baling and similar purposes ......

10%

(11 ) Metal cordage , not being gold or silver .. 20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A973

SCHEDULE XIII NEW ZEALAND. PART I (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

360 Nails or tacks , exceeding 1 inch in length, made

from iron wire, whether plain, galvanized, or

cement-coated, n.e.i....

.Per ton LA

361 Nails, lead-headed, and galvanized cup-headed roofing nails ......
362 Pipes, piping, tubes, and tubing (except coil pipes ), viz. :(1) Wrought iron, steel , or wood, ne.i. , (including such pipes or tubes when protected with a cement or similar coating ) , not less than 4 inches but less than 9 inches in internal diameter .......

40% (1) 35% (1)

(2) (a) Cast iron n.e.i. , including rain-

water, soil, and similar pipes

20%

(b) (i ) Centrifugally-cast iron pipes

piping tubes and tubing, exceeding

6 inches but not exceeding 12

inches in nominal internal

diameter

20%

(ii) Centrifugally-cast iron pipes
piping tubes and tubing , not less than 4 inches but not exceeding
6 inches in nominal internal diameter ....

(4) Lead or composition ....

.Per cwt.

3.5% (1) 79.

(5) Knees, bends , elbows, junction or

inspection boxes including covers there-

for, and other fittings , n.e.i. , for

pipes , piping, tubes or tubing, viz.:-

(b) of cast iron for rain-water, soil, and

similar pipes .....

.....

365 Rails for railways or tramways, including lay-outs, points, and crossings , for the same ; railfastenings - viz. , fish-plates , creep-clips , tieirons, bearing-brackets, bed-plates , cast-iron chocks, and bored iron bars

35% (1) 20% (2)

95347 O 49 pt. 5--- 62

A974

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIII · NEW ZEALAND. PART I ( continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

376 (1 ) Wire netting, metal wove wire (not including wove wire for mattresses ) , metal gauze; expanded metal lathing and fencing ...

10% (2)

378 Bicycles, tricycles , and motor-cycles, fittings for · viz. , spokes, in the rough or finished; and
the following articles when not plated, Japanned, enamelled, or varnished · viz. , drop forgings,
stampings, wood or metal rims ( not bored) , forks, stays, handle-bars, and seat-pillars , unbuilt, bracket shells, fork- and stay-ends , fork-tips , bridges, crowns, and lugs

15% (2)

379 Bicycles , tricycles , and the like vehicles, including motor-cycles, also hubs, spindles, and other finished, partly finished, or machined parts of the same, n.e.i.; side -cars for motor-cycles .. Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item 379 shall be exempt from most-favourednation oustoms duties which exceed the
duties on such products under the British Preferential Tariff by more than 20 per centum ad valorem.

389 Motor-vehicles ne.i. , viz.:-

(a) Motor-vehicles unassembled or completely

knocked down (o.k.d. )

40%

9$89985

(c ) Other kinds

50%

Note. Where the Minister is of opinion that any

duty is being or is likely to be evaded or avoided by the importation of any motor-

vehicles without engines , electric

generators, electric motors , tires or

other component parts, which, in the

ordinary course of business , are usually

imported therewith, the Minister may, at

his discretion, require that duty shall be

paid as if such engines , electric generators, electric motors, tires or

other component parts had been imported with such vehicles.

Note.

The New Zealand Government shall have the
right to require that pneumatic rubber tires and inner tubes of rubber therefor, imported with and forming part of any motor vehicle entered under Tariff Item
389(a) or (c ), shall be liable for duty at the rates for the time being applicable to similar tires and tubes under Tariff
Item 205( 6) if imported not forming part of motor vehicles.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A975

SCHEDULE XIII - NEW ZEALAND. PART I ( continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

391 Graphite, and plumbago, in powder, or flake form .... Free (3)

Ex 395 394

Boot-polishes ......................
Oils in vessels capable of containing 1 gallon or more, vis. :(3) Vegetable oils me.i......................

40% (1) Free ()

(5) Turpentine; turpentine substitutes composed of volatile mineral oils, or of volatile mineral oils in combination with turpentine or other volatile vegetable oils ......................
395 Oils in vessels having a capacity of less than 1 gallon, viz. :Ex (5) Vegetable oils ne.i. , vis. , olive, pala, peanut .........
396 (1) Cad-liver oil.................
397 Paints, colours, varnishes, and similar materials, TAL:Ex (2) Paints mixed ready for use ...... Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item 397 Ex (2) shall be exempt from most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the duties on such products under the British Preferential Tariff by more than 20 per centum ad valorem.

Free
20% (1) Free (5)

(s)

Ex (3) Csotlelnocidlison.-...b...a...s...e......v...a...r...n...ish for correcting

40% (1)

Ex (7) Paints and colours, dry, n.c.i. , vis :Zino white, red lead ...
598 Waxes, vis. :Ex (1) Carnauba, ouricury or licury, and beeswax.

!

Free (3) Frea (3)

399 Timber, via:-

Logs, round, unworked, vis, :-

(0) Ne.i...

....... Fer 100 cubic feet

25s. (1)



A976

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIII · NEW ZEALAND. PART I (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

404 Timber rough sawn or rough hewn - viz. :-
Ex (2) Other kinds, in pieces having a length of not less than 25 feet , and having a minimum cross sectional area of not less
than 150 square inches, viz.:Redwood; Douglas fir

.....

Bx 405

Ex (3) Ne.i. , viz.:- Douglas fir
Timber sawn dressed, viz. : Douglas fir; hemlock Note. Preference on the above-mentioned classes of timber under Tariff Items 404 and 405 to be reduced proportionately to any reduction in the import excise tax payable on Canadian timber imported into the United States of America and to be eliminated when, and for as long as, such
import excise tax ceases to apply to timber imported into the United States of America from Canada.

.... .....

@ e eee

409 Handles, wooden, for tools , ne.i.... 414 Ex (1) Veneers ......

Free (3) 35% (1)

(2) Woodenware, and turnery, n.e.i.; saddletrees; wooden tackle-blocks ....

50% (1)

425 Cordage, rope, and twine, n.e.i........

40% (1)

431 Gelatine, glue, isinglass, and size...... .Per lb. 40. (1) or 40% whichever rate returns the
higher duty.

434 Manures, when crude and in bulk

Free

443 Sausage skins and casings, vis : -

(1 ) of animal origin, including brine or

salt ...................

........ Per 18.

34. (1)

@



447 Tanning-materials, crude ..

Free (3)

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A977

SCHEDULE XIII NEW ZEALAND. PART I ( concluded )

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

449 Ex (2) Articles ne.i. , viz. : -

Agricultural seeds ( other than grain and

pulse) for agricultural seed purposes

Free

Bauxite
Black diamonds, or borts , for diamond drills Brake or transmission linings, in the piece,
consisting of woven or pressed asbestos with or without metal wire incorporated therein
Bristles , natural , for use in the manufacture of brushes
Cattle hides , raw
Copra Corundum
Cotton seed Feathers, undressed Fibres, natural , vegetable , viz.:-
Coir Jute
Kapok Manila hemp Raffia Ramie Rosella
Sisal Gum copal Ivory Manioc, dry Nickel in matte form Rattans Raw rubber in sheets Rosin Sesame seed Shells Synthetic resins Tallow, unrefined Tin ore Yerba de Mate..

Free (3)

GENERAL NOTE .
The symbol % where shown in the "Rate of Duty" column indicates a rate of duty per centum ad valorem.
NOTES TO SPECIFIC ITEMS
(1) Surtax, where payable on these goods the produce of certain countries forming part of the British Commonwealth, to be removed.
(2) Primage , where payable on these goods the produce of countries forming part of the British Commonwealth, to be removed.
(3 ) Subject to primage duty of 3 per centum ad valorem.

A978

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIII NEW

PART II. Preferential Tariff

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

5 Grain and pulse , ground or manufactured, viz : (1) Barley flour, prepared............ Per cental 2s.6d.

(6) Oats, or oats in admixture with other

grain................

...... Per lb. ja

Note. Oatmeal and rolled oats, the produce

of Australia, shall be exempt from

customs duty in excess of 2s. 6d. per cental.

(10) N.e.i......

..... Per cental 2s. 6d.

12 Aerated waters, and beverages, me.i.....

15%

15 Cocoa-beans , raw ......

Free

16 Cocoa and chocolate , viz. :-

(1 ) Cocoa; also cocoa-beans roasted or

crushed ...............

................... Per lb. 3d (1)


222 35

Citrus-fruit pulps (including fruit-juices aontaining

such percentage of citrus-fruit pulp as may be

determined by the Minister) sweetened or

unsweetened, in bulk or otherwise .....

10%

35 Fish, viz. : (3) Fish, potted, and preserved, ne.i. , including any liquor, oil , or sauce.. Per lb. 1jd. Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item 35( 3) , the produce of Australia, shall be exempt from duty.

36 Fruits, dried · viz.:(2 ) Raisins ...... Note. Raisins , dried, the produce of the Union of South Africa, shall be exempt from duty.

(1) (4) (1)

35

(4) N.e.i..... Note. Fruits , dried, n.e.i. , the produce of the Union of South Africa, shall be exempt from duty.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A979

SCHIDULE XIX NEW ZEALAND. PART II (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Rober

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

57 Fruits, fresh · viz :(3) Apricots, nectarines ..

Ex (2) Grapes July to November 30 inclusive...Per lb. December 1 to June 30 inclusive...Per lb.
Hate. Fresh apricots, grapes and nectarines, the produce of the Union of South Africa, shall be exempt from duty.
Ex (5) Oranges Note. Fresh oranges, the produce of the Union of South Africa, shall be exempt from duty.

10 24. 3833
.....

39 Fruits preserved in juice or syrup, vis :Pineapples .........................

15% (1)(4)

48 Malt-extract, malt-extract with cod-liver oil , and

similar preparations containing maltextract....

Per lb. 24. or 20%

whichever rate

returns the

higher duty.

Starch n.e. í..............

.Per lb. 12

8

Wine containing not more than 40 per cent. of proof
spirit, viz :(1) Sparkling , all kinds; per gallon, or for six reputed quart bottles, or the reputed equivalent in bottles of a larger or
smaller reputed capacity................ Note. The products provided for under
Tariff Item 90(1 ), the produce of the Union of South Africa, shall be exempt from customs duty in excess
of 14a. 3d. per gallon.

.....

(2) Other kinds ; per gallon, or for six reputed quart bottles, or the reputed equivalent in
bottles of a larger or smaller reputed capacity Note. The products provided for under
Tariff Item 90( 2 ) , the produce of the Union of South Africa, shall be exempt from customs duty in excess of 88.3d. per gallon.

.....

A980

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIII NEW ZEALAND. PART II (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 105 113 115 134
136

Drugs and chemicals, viz. :Strychnine, and salts of strychnine
Essences, culinary or flavouring, ne.i..............
Essential oils .....
Surgeons ' , physicians ' , dentists ' , and opticians ' appliances, instruments and materials, viz :(1) Appliances (including splints ) for wear, even if medicated, peculiarly adapted to correct a deformity of the human body, to afford support to an abnormal condition of the human body, or to reduce or alleviate such condition, or to substitute any part of such body; stump socks; crutches; ear trumpets ; ear tubes, and audiphones , for the partially deaf
Apparel, clothing, and hosiery, viz.:(3) Braces, suspenders, garters , belts, and similar articles..

Free (3) 20% (1) Free (3)
Free 20%



(5) Neckties

20%

(6) Men's and boys ' overcoats ne.i. , suits,

coats, trousers, waistcoats , and similar

articles ....

25%

Ex ( 7) N.e.i. , viz.:Women's and girls' outer garments of woven fabrics
Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item 136 ( 3) , (5 ) , ( 6) and Ex ( 7) , the produce of Australia, shall be exempt from customs duty in excess of 40 per centum ad valorem. The products provided for under Tariff Item 136 ( 3 ) and (5 ) , the produce of Canada, shall be exempt from customs duty in excess of 40 per centum ad valorem. The products
provided for under Tariff Item 136 ( 6 ) and Ex (7), the produce of Canada, shall be exempt from customs duty in excess of 45 per centum ad valorem.

25% (1)

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A981

SCHEDULE XIII - NEW ZEALAND. PART II (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 140 Corn-sacks; bags or sacks of jute hemp or hessian; bags or sacks of New Zealand tow or flax

Free ( )

Ex 140 Wool-packs, and wool-pockets ....

Free

142 Boot and similar laces , of any material other than

leather

15%

145 Braids, and bindings , all kinds, n.e.i.; cords, ne.i. , of wool , cotton , silk, imitation silk, artificial silk, or of combinations of these materials with one another or with any other material ................ .
144 Brattice -cloth of jute or hessian....
151 Drapery n.e.i....................
152 Elastics, all kinds , including boot and brace elastics; elastic threads and cords; plain tape of cotton, linen, or jute ; webbings, all kinds, including elastic webbings; dressmakers ' beltings, including cotton petershams, whether plain or circular woven, or reinforced; woven looping and labels, for boots; labels, and hangers , woven, for clothing and other textile articles, including hanger material , plain or otherwise , ne.i.; ohain coat-hangers ; woven bandings , bands, tapes, and similar articles (not including armbands and hat-bands), with printed, woven, or embroidered lettering, trade-name, or trade -mark, suited for use with boots or other apparel ......

15% (1) Free (3) 20% (1)
Free

Ex 153 159

Feathers, ornamental , viz : Ostrich .......
Note. Ostrich feathers , ornamental , the produce of the Union of South Africa, shall be exempt from customs duty in excess of 15 per centum ad valorem.
Floor coverings, viz.:Ex ( 1 ) Carpets , floor coverings, floor-rugs, mats, and matting (excluding mats, and matting, of coir, raffia, rattan, straw, rush, reed or grass ) , n.e.i.............

..... 20%

Ex (2 ) Linoleum, cork carpets, and rubber

flooring, including mats (other than

rubber mats), matting, and floor-rugs, of

similar material ......

15%

2

A982

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIII - NEW ZEALAND. PART II (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty



161 Haberdashery n.e.i.......

20% (1)

163 Hairpins, hatpins, safety pins, and toilet pins ..... 15%

Ex 168 Lace, and laces, n.e.i....

15% (1)

180 Ex ( 1 ) Textile piece-goods, woven ,of jute , whether plain, hemmed, whipped, or similarly worked .. Free (3)
182 Textile piece-goods - viz., dress nets, curtain nets, embroidery nets, and similar nets, lace curtain material, and veilings, all kinds; also fabrics of a like kind as may be determined by the Minister .. 15% (1)

187 Ex 191

Union textiles me.i. , in the piece, the current domestic value of which does not exceed that specified by the Minister, when cut up and made into shirts, pyjamas, or underclothing, under such conditions and regulations as the Minister may prescribe ..........................
Yarn - viz. , Jute

Free (3) Free (3)



Ex 193 Yarns n.e.i. , viz.:Sisal and raffia ......

Free (4)

196 ( 2 ) Slippers n.e.i.........

25% (1)

Note. Slippers n.e.i. , the produce of Australia,

shall be exempt from customs duty in excess

of 35 per centum ad valorem.

Note. Slippers ne.i. , the produce of Canada,
shall be exempt from customs duty in excess of 30 per centum ad valorem.

(3) Boots , shoes, clogs , pattens, shoettes, sandals, and other footwear, ne.i... Per pair 58. (1)

Note. The products provided for under

or 25%

Tariff Item 196( 3) , the produce of

whichever rate

Australia, shall be exempt from customs returns the

duty in excess of 35 per centum ad

higher duty

valorem or 4s. per pair, whichever rate

returns the higher duty.

Note .

The products provided for under Tariff Item 196(3 ), the produce of Canada, shall be exempt from customs duty in excess of 30 per centum ad valorem or 3s. 8d. per pair, whichever rate returns the higher
duty.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A983

SCHEDULE XIII · NEW ZEALAND PART II (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

225 Glassware ne.i.; globes, and chimneys, for lamps, n.e.i.; lamps, lanterns, and lampwick, n.e.i.....

12 % (1 )

Ex 259

Sporting, gaming, and athletic requisites, n.e.i. , including billiard requisites ne.i......... Note. The products provided for under Tariff
Item Ex 239, the produce of Australia, shall be exempt from customs duty in excess of 25 per centum ad valorem.

20% (1)

247 Musical instruments, and parts, viz, : -

(5) Musical instruments ne. i..............

Free

262 Toilet preparations, and perfumery, n.e.i. , including perfumed oil ... Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item 262, the produce of Australia, shall be exempt from customs duty in excess of 35 per centum ad valorem.

25% (1)

268 Cardboard boxes, and paper boxes, complete ; paper,

and cardboard, cut or shaped for wrappers boxes

or other receptacles ..................

....

20%

Note. The products provided for under Tariff

Item 268, the produce of Australia or

Canada, shall be exempt from customs duty

in excess of 30 per centum ad valorem.

271 Celluloid, and similar materials, plain , in sheets or rolls, unprinted, n.e.1.........
274 Envelopes and bags, paper, n.e.i..... Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item 274, the produce of Australia, shall be exempt from customs duty in excess of 30 per centum ad valorem.

Free (3) 25%

T

304 Stationery, and paper, manufactured - viz. , account books, scribbling-books , letter-books , copying letter-books , counter books, guard books , copybooks with headlines on each page, drawing-books, sketch-books, diaries, birthday-books , scribbling, and letter blocks; book-covers; book-markers; billhead, invoice, and statement forms; cheque, and draft forms; tags; labels, all kinds; printed window-tickets ; blotting-pads ; Christmas , New Year, birthday, Easter, and other booklets and
cards, n.e.i.; printed, lithographed, ruled, or embossed stationery, n.e.i.; albums all kinds ... 20% Note. The products provided for under Tariff
Item 304, the produce of Australia or Canada, shall be exempt from customs duty in excess of 30 per centum ad valorem.

A984

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIII - NEW ZEALAND. PART II ( continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

305 Stationery ne.i.; cards, printers ' menu, programme, calendar, Christmas, and similar, of cardboard, celluloid, or similar material, edged, or having embossed or printed thereon such words as "Menu, " "Calendar, " "Christmas Greetings, " but otherwise uNnepwriZenatlead,nda...n...d......s.uited to be completed in 20%
Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item 305, the produce of Australia or Canada, shall be exempt from customs duty in excess of 30 per centum ad valorem.

327 Galvanized-iron manufactures, ne.i. , made up from

galvanized iron, or from plain sheet iron and

then galvanized; Japanned or lacquered metalware;

furniture , cebinetware , and shelving , specially

suited for office shop or warehouse use, made up

from sheet metal not exceeding 0.080 inch in

thickness ......

20%

Note. Galvanized-iron manufactures, n.e.i. , made

up from galvanized iron, or from plain

sheet iron, and then galvanized, and

Japanned or lacquered metalware, the

produce of Australia, shall be exempt from customs duty in excess of 30 per centum ad valorem.

551 Ex ( 1) Lawn-mowers, other than hand roller type,

having cutting-blades exceeding 18 inches

in length ......

15%

(2) Lawn-mowers, of the hand roller type ........ 20%
Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item 331( 2), the produce of Australia or Canada, shall be exempt from oustoms duty in excess of 30 per centum ad valorem.

335 Agricultural implements and machinery, viz.:-

(1) Cultivators ; harrows; ploughs ; drills seed and fertilizer sowers or distributors

combined or separate; lime sowers; seed or

grain cleaners, and cellular seed or grain

separators ......

10%

Note. The products provided for under

Tariff Item 335(1), the produce of

Canada, shall be exempt from customs

duty in excess of 35 per centum ad

valorem plus surtax of 1/20th of the auty.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A985

SCHEDULE XIII NEW ZEALAND. PART II ( continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

338 Machinery or appliances, electrical , viz.:-

Ex (4) Electric appliances n.e.i. peculiar to

electro-plating, electro-chemistry,

electro-metallurgy, surgery ......

Free

(10)(a ) Electric irons

20%

Note. The products provided for under

Tariff Item 338( 10 ) ( a ) , the

produce of Australia or Canada,

shall be exempt from customs duty

in excess of 30 per centum

ad valorem.

351 Machinery, machines , machine tools, and appliances, ViL. :-
(3) Boring and well -drilling machinery; rock drills, and diamond drills; coal cutters .. Free

353 Machinery, machines, engines, and other appliances,

n..i., viz. :-

(1) Gas heating and gas cooking appliances;

valves, cooks , and similar articles, of

brass or other copper-alloy ..........

25%

Note. Gas heating and gas cooking

appliances provided for under Tariff

Item 353( 1 ) , the produce of Australia

shall be exempt from customs duty

in excess of 35 per centum ad valorem. Valves, taps, tobies,

hydrants, and similar articles , of

brass or other copper alloy provided

for under Tariff Item 355(1 ), the

produce of Australia, shall be

exempt from customs duty in excess

of 40 per centum ad valorem

(3) Electric cooking and electric heating

appliances .·······

20%

Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item 353( 3), the produce of

Australia, shall be exempt from

customs duty in excess of 30 per centum ad valorem. The products

provided for under Tariff Item

353(3), the produce of Canada,

shall be exempt from customs duty

in excess of 30 per centum ad

valorem plus surtax of 9/40ths of the duty.

A986

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIII NEW ZEALAND. PART II (continued)

New Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

353 Machinery, machines, engines, and other appliances, n.e.i. continued.

Ex (6) (b) Other kinds , viz. : -

Winches, cranes, capstans , windlasses,

and hoists ........

20%

Note. Winches , cranes, capstans, wind-

lasses , and hoists provided for under Tariff Item 353 Ex ( 6 ) (b), the produce of Australia or Canada, shall be exempt from customs duty in excess of 30 per centum ad valorem.

Ex (6) (b) Refrigerating units having a heat removing capacity of less than 6,000 B. T. U. per hour for use in domestic type cabinets of capacities not exceeding 25 cubic feet , but not including such units when imported in or with cabinets
356 (2) Porcelain enamelled cast iron baths Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item 356(2) , the produce of Australia, shall be exempt from duty in excess of 45 per centum ad valorem.
357 Metal, viz. :(4) Iron, galvanized or plain black, viz. , angle, tee, bar, bolt, channel , rod, and rolled girders; iron girders expanded, but otherwise unworked

20% (1) 25%
Free

(5) Iron, viz.:-

(a ) Sheet, plate (including rolled

chequered plates ) , or hoop, plain,

whether black, polished, galvanized,

plated, tinned, or otherwise coated

with metal , ne.i................

Free

(b) Corrugated sheet iron

Free

373 Tinware, and tin manufactures, n.e.i .......

20%

Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item

373, the produce of Australia, shall be

exempt from customs duty in excess of

35 per centum ad valorem.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A987

SCHEDULE XIII NEW ZEALAND. PART II (conoluded)

How Zealand Tariff Item
Number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

414 ( 2) Woodenware, and turnery, me.i.; saddle-trees; wooden tackle-blocks ....................
Note. The products provided for under Tariff Item 414 ( 2) , the produce of Australia or Canada, shall be exempt from customs duty in excess of 30 per centum ad valorem.

20% (1)

416 Apparatus, appliances, articles, and materials, for

educational purposes, as may be approved by the

Minister, and under conditions prescribed by

him ........

Free

419 Brushes, brushware, and brooms , viz. : -

(2) N.e.i. , including knots or tufts for

brushmaking

2.5%

Note. The products provided for under

Tariff Item 419( 2 ) , the produce of

Australia, shall be exempt from

customs duty in excess of 30 per

centum ad valorem.

451
447 Ex 448
449

Gelatine, glue , isinglass , and size ........ Per lb. or
Tanning-materials , crude
Articles and materials, specified by the Minister, and on such conditions as he may prescribe, suited for, and to be used solely in, the fabrication or repair of goods within New Zealand, viz : Mimosa extract or wattle extract
Ex (2) Artioles n.e.i. , viz. : Bristles, natural, for use in the manufacture of brushes
Raw rubber in sheets

2d. (1) 20% whichever rate returns the higher duty. Free
Free (3)
Free (3) Free (5)

SE T

(s)

GENERAL NOTE
The symbol % where shown in the "Rate of Duty" column indicates a rate of duty per centum ad valorem.
NOTES TO SPECIFIC ITEMS.
(1) Surtax, where payable on these goods the produce of certain countries forming part of the British Commonwealth, to be removed.
(3) Subject to primage duty of 3 per centum ad valorem.
(4) The preferential rate on these goods is not bound but is shown only for the purpose of establishing the margin of preference .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A989

SCHEDULE XIV - NORWAY This Schedule is authentic only in the English language .
PART I Most Favoured Nation Tariff

Norwegian Tariff Item Humber 19/6/17

Description of Products

Preliminary provisions,

Complete electric refrigerating cabinets for household use, having a storing capacity not exceeding 10 cubic feet

Fate of Duty (including surtaxes
10% ad val.

Preliminary provisions, 36
Div

Golf clubs of wood , also in connection with other materials
Tapestry from Beauvais, AubussonFelletin and Gobelins, mumbered originals carrying the signature of the artist .

Kr. 2.00 per kg.
A note to be inserted in the tariff permitting free entry of original tapestry of the kind mentioned , on the condition that their character as a work of art has been duly proved .

Apothecary wares , i.e. goods intended for

retail sale solely by apothecaries , n.e.p.f.

15 .. Other ............

Free

355

Ex 19 Tanning extract derived from eucalyptus

wood ......

Free

Ex 21 Coir fibre

Free

Ex 22 Coir yarn .....

Free

36 Flower bulbs , not classified under item 901 , 1.p.
42 Cotton .....

Kr. 0.16 per.kg. Free

255

65 Bookbinders cloth

Free

Spirits of all kinds etc.: 71 1. in bottles or jars, and other receptacles
of less than 50 litres , of whatever strength Kr.4.77 per litre

72 2. In large receptacles (duty calculated per litre at a strength of 100%) ......

Kr.5.04 per litre

95347 0-49- pt. 5- -63

A990

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIV · NORWAY PART I (Continued)

Norwegian Tariff Item Number 19/6/17

Description of Products

Ex 75) Ex 78)

Varnishes and polishes containing spirit or ether, whether modified
or not with synthetic resin (including cellulose lacquer) , when umfit for use as beverages

The note 2, a after item 78
103

Spirits and isopropyl alcohol (The note reads as following: "Note 2. When, by an admixture of certain substances, spirits and isopropyl alcohol are rendered unfit for use as beverages, or when other sufficient guarantee is given that they will not be employed for such purpose , the Customs Department may authorize the importation thereof duty-free or at a reduced duty as below; this also applies to ethers specified in §§ 3,4 and 5 and also to spirit varnish and to dry (solidified ) alcohol: a. Spirits and isopropyl alcohol - free. ")
Cellulose wool and other similar short artificial textile fibres, and goods of the same materials: 1. Fibres, unspun, and waste of
artificial silk ...

Ex 124 Ex 138

Photographical and cinema films of all kinds, unexposed .....
Lobster, canned

Ex 139 Salmon, canned

143 Salmon, salted ....

Ex 150 151

Intestines , wholly dry, not salted (of animal origin) .....
Intestines , half dry (of animal origin) .....

Rate of Duty (including surtaxeal
Kr. 0.30 per kg. Binding of the note
Kr. 0.20 per kg. Kr. 4.00 per kg. Kr. 0.75 per kg. Kr. 0.30 per kg. Kr. 0.30 per kg. Kr. 4.50 per kg. Kr . 1.35 per kg.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A991

SCHEDULE XIV - NORWAY PART I ( Continued)

Norwegian Tariff Item Humber 1946/47
152 Ex 176
179 180 Ex 186 199
Ex 200 204 210

Description of Products
Intestines, other ......
Carbon electrodes for smelting furnaces...............
Wireless receivers , loudspeakers and headphones, also parts thereof, n.e.m.; 1. Wireless valves , including
rectifying valves ......
2. Other.....
Bone black, lamp black, graphite and other black pigments
Stearic acid, palmitic aaid together with other high melting point fatty acids used in the manufacture of candles, also paraffin and spermaceti...
Tallow
Bedfeathers, quills and down: a. not cleaned ........
Oranges, all kinds, such as sweet oranges, lemona, limes, bitter oranges, grape fruits..........

211 Grapes..

212 Bananas and plantains....

213) 214) 215)
Ex 216

(Apples, fresh - Aug.1 Febr.15

·

- Febr.16 - March 15 ......

- March 16 - July 31 ......

(Pears, fresh · Aug. 1 Jan. 15

· -"- - Jan.16 · July 31

Pineapples (ananas) , fresh or frozen

Rate of Duty (including surtaxes) Kr. 0.45 per kg.
Free
Kr. 0.50 each 30% ad val.
Free
Free Kr. 8.08 per kg.
Kr. 0.10 per kg.
Kr. 0.02 per kg. +33 1/3% sztax Kr. 0.02 per kg. +33 1/3% artax Kr. 0.05 per kg. + 33 1/3% surtax Kr. 0.801 Kr . 0.40 1 Kr. 0.20 Kr. 0.80 per Kr. 9.20 per Kr. 0.60 per kg.

A992

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIV NORWAY PART I (Continued)

Norwegian Tariff Item Number 19/6/17

Description of Products

219 Dried prunes and plums 220 Dates

Ex 222 Raisins

226 Copra ....
229 Dried fruits and berries n.e.m. (including apples, apricots , peaches , pears, bananas and mixtures thereof) ......
233 Fruit and fruit peel in sugar, candied or preserved in brandy, preserves , n.e.m.

5. Fruits preserved in other ways than those mentioned in section 3 and 4,
including also pineapples , apricots, peaches , plums and pears, in tins, even with the addition of sugar:

235 Ex 243 Ex 254
255 256

b. Other , including mangos and guavas in tins ......
Cucumber seeds , onion seeds , cauliflower seeds , lettuce seeds, carrot seeds and parsley seeds .....
Superphosphate
Glass and glassware: 1. Bottles for beer, juice , milk, mineral
waters , wine and spirits , neither polished, painted, nor decorated :
a. Of dark glass (green or brown) ......... b. Of other glass ........

Ex 259 269

Photographical plates
10. Lamp glasses, globes , shades and bulbs for electric lamps , of all kinds, not ornamented as specified in item 270; glassware with wickerwork or covering, which cannot be regarded as packing

Rate of Duty (including surtaxes Kr. 0.25 per kg. Kr. 0.30 per kg. Kr. 0.08 per kg. Free
Kr. 0.60 per kg. Kr. 1.60 per kg.
Kr. 0.60 per kg.
Kr. 0.60 per kg. Free
Kr. 0.10 per kg. Kr. 0.16 per kg. Kr. 0.80 per kg.
Kr. 0.90 per kg.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A993

SCHEDULE XIV NORWAY PART I (Continued)

Norwegian Tariff Item Number 19/6/17

Description of Products

11. Other glassware n.e.m.:

270

a. Polished, engraved, sand-blasted,

painted, gilt or ornamented

otherwise than by moulding or

pressing ........

271

b. Other .....

273 Ex 282

Glycerine ..... Asparagus and artichokes

Vegetables :

Ex 267

2. In hermetically sealed containers , including the weight of the immediate
packing : Asparagus and artichokes

3. Other:

289

a. Dried

290

b. Other

293 Latex, also concentrated

294 India rubber, gum arabic, gutta-peroha, balata, nastic, copal , colophony, shellac and other similar kinds of gums and resins (including Kauri gum) .......

Ex 295

4. Articles of rubber and gutta-percha: a. In plates, including thin sheets of rubber, rods, cords, thread, ropes, blocks, buffers and rollers even if reinforced with threads or textile when these are covered by the material

Ex 296

b. Outer covers for cycles ; auto tubes of natural and synthetic rubber .....

302 Gloves of pure silk 318 Hope .....

Rate of Duty (including surtaxes)
Ir. 1.60 per kg. Kr . 0.80 per kg. Free Kr. 0.50 per kg.
Kr. 0.60 per kg. Kr. 0.20 per kg. Kr. 0.20 per Free
Free
Free
Kr. 0.60 per kg. Kr. 35.00 per kg. Kr. 0.50 per kg.

A994

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIV -- NORWAY. PART I (Continued)

Norwegian Tariff Item Number 19/6/17

Description of products

327
328 344
345 Ex 347
352 353 Ex 363 Ex 364
369 Ex 372
408 411

Insect powders, also other insecticides, weeds and fungus exterminators , provided they are not dutiable under any other tariff item ......
Grand pianos ....
Phonographs , gramophones and the like with records, drums and other accessories, recording apparatus (including dictaphones) and parts thereof ....
Iodine
Sand .....
Earth and clay, and manufactures thereof: B.4. Tiles:
b. Other (with less than 15 mm. thickness) ,
1. Unglased
2. Glased
Faience n...n.
a. white or of me colour, except "sanitary" faience ......
b. Other, including faience with real or imitation gilding or silvering, " sanitary" faience excepted
Coffee, raw ...........
Cocoa beans
Barley
Oats

Rate of Duty (including surtaxes
Free Kr. 600.00 each
Kr. 1.50 per kg. Free Free
Kr. 0.02 per kg. Kr. 0.10 per kg.
Kr. 0.40 per kg.
Kr. 0.60 per kg. Kr. 0.60 per kg. Kr. 0.16 per kg. Free Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30 , 1947

A995

SCHEDULE XIV - NORWAY PART I (Continued)

Norwegian Tariff Item Number_19/6/17 |

Description of Products

412 Wheat

Note : Provided further that over the three-year period from the coming into force of this agreement, the average purchase price of domestic wheat should not exceed by more than 30 per cent the average price paid for imported wheat, c.i.f. Norwegian ports, during the same period .
434 Malt

415 Rye

424 Wheat flour 432 Vanilla ......... Ex 451 Badminton balls and badminton rackets .......

Ex 451 Toys of not precious metals

E 452 Gelatine in thin flexible sheets or in powder

456 Flax (including Phormium tenax) , hemp,
Manila hemp, aloe fibre,jute and similar textile materials, hackled or not, also hackling waste thereof, including tow ......

Ex 513

Cash registers, calculating- and adding machines, typewriters , bookkeeping machines, card punching-, card sorting- and tabulating machines, duplicating machines, addressing machines and postal metering machines ......

Ex 513 Pneumatic tools of types not being produced in Norway

Ex 513

Typesetting machines (including linotype) and printing presses (applies to typographical presses only)

Rate of Duty (including surtaxes ) Free
Kr. 0.05 per kg. Free Free Kr. 4.50 per kg. Kr. 2.00 per kg. Kr. 6.00 per kg. Ir. 1.60 per kg.
Free
10% ad val. Free
Free

A996

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIV · NORWAY PART I ( Continued)

Norwegian Tariff Item Number 19/6/47

Description of Products

Ex 513 514
Ex 516

Tractors and parts thereof, except motor parts (applies to tractors usable only for agricultural and forestry purposes) ......
Machine- and transmission belting of all kinds , also sewing belting .....
Aluminium, copper , lead , nickel , silver , tin, wolfram and zinc , crude , in pigs, granules, blocks and bars

527 Plaites , galloons , lace , fringes and the like..
533 Tools and implements n.e.m. and parts thereof

Ex 554 Tinplate

565 Pipes and fittings of iron with a wall thickness exceeding 1.8 mm. , cast , drawn or rolled, open on the edge , welded or soldered ....

Ex 573 Chains made of iron with a diameter exceeding 8 mm. and ships anchors of iron

Ex 583 Razors and blades therefor of iron and steel ..

596 Lead in rolls , bars and plates ...

597 Pipes , wire and nails , rivet -plates and rivet-washers of lead

Ex 635 Nickel copper matte , caustic potash (potassium hydroxide ) and caustic soda

Ex 643 Ex 643 Ex 647

Brazil nuts ( para nuts ) , shelled .. Brazil nuts ( para nuts) , not shelled Chinese wood oil

Ex 652 Turpentine oil

Ex 653 Volatile rosemary oil

Rate of Duty (including surtaxes)
Free
10% ad val.
Free Kr . 20.00 per kg.
20% ad val. Free
Kr. 0.01 per kg. Free Kr . 4.00 per kg. Free Free
Free Kr . 0.40 per kg. Kr . 0.40 per kg. Free Kr . 0.08 per kg . Kr . 2.50 per kg.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A997

SCHEDULE XIV · NORWAY PART I (Continued)

Norwegian Tariff Item Number 19/6/17

Description of Products

656 Cheese .....

Ex 669 699
725

Photographical paper, ruled, of postcard size.
Pomatums , cosmetics, beard wax, face paints, powders, toothpowders, toothpaste and like toilet articles n.e.m. , including immediate packing
Rice, husked

717 Rice bran ....

728 Ex 729
Bxx 729 Ex 730

Orange juice
Grapefruit juice and mixtures of orange jules and grapefruit juice Vegetable juices (including tomato juice) .... Tapioca flour .....

732 Alum

736 Potash ......

Ex 743 Sacks of jute

Skins and hides:

A. With the hair n.e.m.:

a. Undressed:

768

1. Dried

769

2. Raw ................

B. Without hair:

770

1. Untanned and unprepared

Rate of Duty (including surtaxes Kr. 1.20 per kg. Kr. 0.50 per kg.
Kr. 3.00 per kg. Kr. 0.07 per kg. Free Kr. 0.50 per kg.
Kr. 0.50 per kg. Kr. 0.60 per kg. Free when entered as cattle feed in accordance with special regulations in force Free Free Kr. 0.40 per kg .
Free Free
Free

A998

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIV · NORWAY PART I (Continued)

Norwegian Tariff Item Number 1946/47

Description of Products

B. III . Manufactures:

Ex 781

2.8.3. Foot balls (Match balls) .........

3. Footwear:

b. Of other tissues or of felt:

783

1. With ornaments of silk,

passementerie, feathers or

down , fur, clasps , beads ,

decorative buttons, appliqué

work or embroidery

784

2. Other .....

C. With hair or feathers, for peltry wares:

Ex 801

3. Other: a. Undressed skins of sheep, rabbit and opossum ....

Ex 831 Manganese ore

Ex 835 Cat-gut strings , not for musical use

Sugar and syrup:
841 1. Sugar of all kinds , including lactose (milk sugar), also dissolved and other liquid sugar ( including the juice from which the sugar has not been separated ) which cannot be classified under the goods specified in §§ 2,3 and 4 .....

843 3. Common syrup and molasses containing less than 80% of sugar

Note: The Norwegian Customs Department will determine what conditions the goods are to comply with in order to be admitted under the foregoing tariff number
851 Sulphur and sulphur flowers
854 Sulphuric acid

Rate of Duty (including surtaxes) Kr. 2.00 per kg.
Kr. 5.00 per kg. Kr. 4.00 per kg.
Free Free Kr. 2.00 per kg:
Kr. 0.20 per kg. Free
Free Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A999

SCHEDULE XIV · NORWAY. PART I (Continued)

Norwegian Tariff Item Number 19/6/47

Description of Products

856 Tea

Ex 861 Tobacco leaf:

Not sauced, stemmed Not sauced, unstemmed

Ex 865 Cigars ....

Ex 865 Cigarettes

Ex 899 Tennis rackets

Ex 899 Hickory and oak , unworked . Ex 899 Veneers n.e.m.

Ex 901 Flowering gloxinia , begonia and dahlia ........

902 Azaleas , rhododendrons , camelias, palmtrees , laurel- trees , dracaenas , heather, aucubas, araucarias

Ex 903

Blue spruce fir, box, chamaecyparis ,
fagus atropurpurea, fagus silvatica, fresias , holly (ilex) , junipers , lilac , magnolia and pink ...

Wines, also containing quinine and other medicaments :

1. In bottles :

950

b . Other

2. In casks or jars:

951

a. Non sparkling, containing up to

21% alcohol

Ex 953 Ex 953

Motorcycles and sidecars therefor
Passenger automobiles , also bodies and chassis therefor

Rate of Duty (including surtaxes) Kr. 2.00 per kg.
Kr. 4.95 per kg. Kr. 4.50 per kg. Kr. 10.00 per kg. Kr. 12.00 per kg. Kr. 2.00 per kg. Free Free Kr. 0.20 per kg.
Kr . 0.10 per kg.
Kr. 0.10 per kg.
Kr. 0.96 per litre
Kr. 0.48 per litre 30% ad val. 30% ad val.

A1000

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIV · NORWAY PART I ( Concluded)

Norwegian Tariff Item Number 1946/47

Description of Products

Ex 954 Automobile trucks, also hodies and chassis therefor, and motors for automobiles and aircraft ......
Ex 954 Aircraft .....
Ex 955 Automobile and aircraft parts n.e.m.
Ex 957 Automobile casings of natural and synthetic rubber
Ex 974 Carnauba wax

Rate of Duty (including surtaxea)
20% ad val . 12% ad val. 25% ad val .
Kr.0.60 per kg. Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1001

SCHEDULE XXY - FORWAY Part II
Preferential Tariff Nil .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1003

SCHEDULE X · PAKISTAN

This Schedule is authentic only in the English language PART I
Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No,

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

2 Ex 4 Rx 4 Ex 4( 1)
Bx 4(1)
Bx 4(1) Ex 7
Ex 8 Ex 8 8(1 ) Ex 9(3) 9(6) Ex 10 Ex 12 Ex 13 Bx 13(4) Bx 15 Ex 15 15(3) 15( 5)

Bacon and Ham , not canned or bottled........ .... Butter. Cheese.....

25 per cent ad val 25 per cent ad val 25 per cent ad val

Milk, condensed or preserved, including milk eream, but excluding dried skim milk, that is to say, dried milk powder containing not more than 4 per cent of fat and no added ingredients
Dried skim milk, that is to say, dried milk powder containing not more than 4 per cent of fat and no added ingredients.....
Sterilised cream..
Dehydrated vegetables , all sorts, other than tomatoes , onions , potatoes and cauliflowers....
Apples and pears, fresh......

25 per oent ad val
Free 25 per cent ad val 30 per cent ad val 30 per cent ad val

Prunes and grapes, fresh.... Currants..... Cassia lignea , ground or unground..... Vanilla beans..... Rice..... Grass and olover seeds...... Cochineal.. Rosin.......

30 per cent ad val Re. 1 per owt, 50 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val Free 15 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val 24 per cent ad val

Mineral grease , including petroleum jelly............... Stearine.... Tallow.....

27 per cent ad val 25 per cent ad val Free

Fish oil and whale oil, hardened or hydrogenated Rs.10 per owt,

A1004

SINTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XV- PAKIS TAN

PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 15(6) Ex 15(8)
16

Tung oil............. Neatsfoot oil...... Canned or bottled bacon , ham and lard........

30 per cent ad val 15 per cent ad val 25 per cent ad val

Ex 16(1) Ix 16(1 )

Sardines and pilchards , canned........
Fish, canned , other than canned sardines and pílohards....

20 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val

Ex 20( 1) Juices, either individually or in mixture, of the following fruits , namely: Apricots , Berries , Grapes, Pineapple, Plums and Prunes....

Note: The products provided for under the above
item shall be exempt frem ordinary most-favourednation Customs duties which exceed the preferential rate in the case of such products of British Colonial origin, by more than 6 per cent að val.

Bx 20(2)

Canned fruits the following, namely: Apricots, Berries, Grapes, Plums and Prunes, and fruit
salads composed not less than 80% in quantity and in value of the above-named fruits.............

Note: The products provided for under the above Item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation Customs duties which exceed the preferential rate in the case of such products af British Colonial origin , by more than 6 per cent ad val.

Ex 20(2)

Pineapples , canned.......
Note: The products provided for under the above Item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation Customs duties which exceed the preferential rate in the case of such products of British Colonial origin , by more than 8 per cent ad val.

Ex 20(2) Asparagus , canned.......

...... 24 per cent ad val

Ex 20(2) Vegetables, canned , all sorts, other than toma-

toes, potatoes , onions and cauliflowers

30 per cent ad val

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -- OCT. 30, 1947

A1005

SCHEDULE XV -PAKISTAN
PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Bx 21 Meat, canned..

20 per cent ad val

Ex 21 Rennet essence..

20 per cent ad val

Ex 21 Soups , canned or bottled........

25 per cent ad val

Bx 21 (1)
Ex 21 (1 ) Ex 21 (1)

Blended flavouring concentrates for the preparation of non-alcoholic beverages.... Meat , frozen....
Soups , all sorts , not otherwise specified. ...............

30 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val 25 per cent ad val

22(3)

Tines , not containing more than 42 per cent of proof spirit
(a) Champagne and other sparkling wines....

Xx 22(5)

(b) Other sorts,. Spirits .-

Rs.16-8 per Imperial gallon
Rs.9-8 per Imperial gallon

(a) Bitters

(1) entered in such a manner as to indicate that the strength is not to be tested. ,
(ii) not so entered... (o) Perfumed Spirits..
(a) Rum........
Provided that

Rs.73-2 per Imperial gallon. Rs. 55-5 per Laperial gallon of the strength of London proof. Rs.60 per Imperial gallon of 25 per cent ad valorem ,whichever is higher plus one-fourth of the total duty.
Rs.55-5 per Duperial gallon of the strength of London
proof,

95347 0-49-pt. 5--64

A1006

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XV - PAKISTAN

PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 22( 5) (Co2n2t1d5. 3)

(a) on any article chargeable under this item with the lower rate of duty, the duty levied shall in no case be less than 30 per cent ad valorem , and on any article chargeable under this item with the higher rate of duty, the duty levied shall in no case be less than 45 per cent ad valorem;
(b) where the unit of assessment is the Imperial gallon of the Strength of London proof, the duty shall be increased or reduced in proportion as the strength is greater or less than London proof.

24(3) Tobacco, unmanufactured....
Note: The products provided for under the above item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation Customs duties which exceed ·

(a) the preferential rate applicable to such products of British Colonial origin , and

(b) the preferential rate applicable to such products of Burmese origin, by more than the difference between Rupees seven and annas eight per pound and 10 per cent ad valorem.

27(1) Asphalt.....

27 per sent ad val

Ex 27(2) Crude and refined coal tar and coal pitch...... 27 per cent ad val

27(3) All sorts of mineral oils not otherwise specified 27 per cent ad val

Ex 28 Aoetyl Salicylic acid in tablets or in powder ; Atropine Sulphate ; Cresylic acid; Hyoscine hydrobromide ; Phenobarbital ; Vitamins A and E excluding fish- liver oils..

30 per cent ad val

Ex 28 Cod-liver oil packed in containers not exceeding

14 lbs. in capacity......

30 per cent ad val

Ex 28 Iodine , in crude form...

30 per cent ad val

Ex 28 Lactose ( sugar of milk) ...................

30 per cent ad val

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1007

SCHEDULE IV - PAKISTAN

PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 28 Menthol....

24 per cent ad val

Ex 28 Penicillin and its products......

Ex 28 Antibiotics such as streptomycin, gramioidin,

tyrocidine and tyrothricin.............

...

30 per cent ad val 30 per cent ad mal

Ex 28 Sulpha drugs and vitamin preparations other than

fish-liver oils.....

30 per cent ad val

Ex 28 Chemicals , Drugs and Medicines , all sorts not otherwise specified excluding ·

Menthol
(b) Penicillin and its products (c) Cod liver oil d) Crude Iodine
Lactose (sugar of milk) Sulpha drugs and vitamin preparations other than fish- liver oils
(g) Antibiotics such as streptomycin, gramicidin, Tyrocidine and tyrothricin; and
( h) Acetyl Salicylic acid in tablets or in powder, Atropine Sulphate, Cresylic acid, Hyoscine hydrobromide , Phenobarbital, Vitamins A and E ... ...............

Note: The products provided for under the above item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favourednation Customs duties which exceed the preferential rate applicable to such products of the United Kingdom or British Colonial origin, by more than 10 per cent ad val.
28( 8) Acetic acid, Boric acid , Borax and Phenol...... 25 per cent ad val

Ex 28(14) Tooth paste , Tooth powder , Talcum powder , Shaving soap and Shaving cream......

30 per cent ad val

Ex 30 Paints , solutions and compositions containing dangerous petroleum within the meaning of the Indian Petroleum Act , 1934 .......
Ex 30 Lithopone...

24 per cent ad mi 30 per cent ad val

A1008

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XV - PAKE TAN
PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Prodmets

Rate of Duty

Ex 30(1) Dyes derived from coal tar, the following, namely:

Alizarine moist exceeding 20 per cent........ Alizarine red.......

Sulphur black.......................................................................... Sulphur dyes of other colours ......................... Ultrazols... Vats, powder.......

Ex 30(1)

Dyes derived from coal tar , and coal tar derivatives , used in any dyeing process , all sorts, other than Alizarine moist exceeding 20 per cent , Alizarine red, Azo dyes , Sulphur black, Sulphur dyes of other colours , Ultrazols and vats, powder.................................

x 30(2)(d) Ultramarine blue:

(1) in packing of 1 lb. or over..

(ii) in packing of lb. and over but less than 1 lb.....
(iii)in packing of lb. and over but less than lb......
(iv) in paaking of less than 1b......

31(4) Camphor.

Ex 35

Nitrate of Soda , when imported in a form indicative of its use for mamurial purposes. ···

Ex 40 Douglas Fir...................

Bx 44 Cigarette paper in rolls and bobbins,

Ex 45 Fountain pens, complete.................

12 per cent ad val 12 per cent ad val 12 per cent ad val 12 per cent ad val 12 per cent ad val 12 per cent ad val 12 per cent að val
12 per cent ad val
30 per cent ad val or Rs.8-8 per owte, whichever is highes 30 per cent ad val or Rs. 11-4 per out,, whichever is higher 30 per cent ad val or Rs. 17 per owt., whichever is higher. 30 per cent ad val or Rs. 24 per owt. , whichever is higher 50 per cent að val
Free
20 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val 30 per cent ad val

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1009

SCHEDULE XV - PAKISTAN

PART I (Continued )

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

46( 2) Wool, raw, and wooltops .....

Free.

Ex 49(b) Textile manufactures , the following articles when made wholly or mainly of any of the cotton fabrics specified in Item No. 48( 3) , namely: -

Cross-stitch , drawn-thread or otherwise ombroidered bed sheets ; bed spreads ; bolster cases; counterpanes ; cloths , table ; cloths , tray; covers , bed; covers , table; dusters; glass-cloths; handkerchiefs ; napkins ; pillow cases; pillow slips ; scarves ; shirts ; shawls ; sacks ( cotton) ; towels and umbrella coverings

50 per cent ad val

49(2) Ribbons.... Ex 52 Lace and trimmings , made of cotton or linen ....

50 per cent ad val 25 per cent ad val

Ex 53 Linen embroideries ..... Ex 55 Fezes.....

25 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val

Ex 55 Straw hats......

20 per cent ad val

Ex 55 Hats , caps and bonnets , all sorts , excluding Fezes , Pith hats and Helmets and Straw hats.... 20 per cent ad val

Ex 60( 2) Electric lighting bulbs for torches and automobiles ....

50 per cent ad val

Ex 60(3) Glass beads and false pearls......

50 per cent ad val

68( 1 ) Zinc , unwrought , including cakes , ingots , tiles

(other than boiler tiles) , hard or soft slabs

and plates , dust , dross and ashes....

Free

70(1 ) Copper , unwrought ...

Free

Ex 70(1) Lead , pig.....

Free

Ex 71

Articles of imitation jewellery ( including
buttons and other fasteners ) which consist of, or include, base metal plated with gold or silver or both and in which the proportion of
gold or silver or both together to total metallic contents is less than 1.5 per cent .....

30 per cent ad val

A1010

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XV - PAKISTAN
PART I ' Continued )

Indian coms Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 71 Stoves for use with kerosene , gasolene or other

liquid fuels and burners therefor ............... .

20 per cent ad val

Ex 71 ( 2) Safety razors and parts therefor , including blades.....

30 per cent ad val

Ex 72 Boot and shoe manufacturing machinery........ Ex 72 Cinema-protecting apparatus ......

10 per cent ad val 10 per cent ad val

Ex 72 Metal-working machinery other than machine tools .

10 per cent ad val

Ex 72 Mining machinery.. Ex 72 Oil-crushing and refining machinery ... ... Ex 72 Petroleum and gas-well drilling equipment ......

10 per cent ad val 10 per cent ad val 10 per cent ad val

Ex 72 Refrigerating machinery other than domestic

refrigerators ...

......: 10 per cent ad val

Ex 72 Sound-recording apparatus for the production of cinema films .....
Ex 72 Sugar-manufacturing and refining machinery.....

10 per cent ad val 10 per cent ad val

Ex 72( 1 ) Machines for the carding , spinning and washing

of wool....

10 per cent ad val

Ex 72( 3)

Component parts of boot and shoe manufacturing machinery , cinema projecting apparatus , metal working machinery other than machine tools , mining machinery , oil crushing and refining machinery , petroleum and gas-well drilling equipment , refrigerating machinery other than domestic refrigerators , sound-recording apparatus for the production of cinema films , sugar manufacturing and refining machinery and machines for the carding , spinning and washing of wool , namely, such parts only as are essential for the working of the machine or apparatus and have been given for that purpose some special shape or quality which would not be essential
for their use for any other purpose , but excluding electric motors , belting and steel belt

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1011

SCHEDULE XV · PAKISTA
PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 72(3) lacing, wire healds , bobbins and pickers...... contd .
72(4) Passenger lifts and component parts and accessories thereof...

72(5) Domestic refrigerators and parts therefor such as are specially designed for use with such refrigerators....

Ex 72(6) Typewriters......

Ex 72(6) Component parts of typewriters.....

Ex 72(6)

Office machines all sorts , not otherwise specified , operated by manual labour or requir-
ing for their operation less than one quarter
of one brake-horse power and component parts thereof.......

Ex 72(8) Ploughs and parts thereof...... Ex 72( 8) Agricultural tractors and parts thereof....... Ex 72(8) Hay presses.....
Ex 72( 9) Milking machines.... Ex 73(2) Carbons , electrio..................
Ex 73(2) Electro-medical apparatus, .... Ex 73(4) Complete wireless receivers..... Ex 73(4) Electric valves specially designed for wireless
reception instruments.... Ex 73(4) Component parts of wireless reception instru-
ments other than electric valves......................

Ex 73(4) Combination radio-phonographs...................
Ex 73(4) Wireless transmission apparatus........ Note: The products provided for under the above item shall be exempt from the ordinary most-

10 per cent ad val 25 per cent ad val
30 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val
20 per cent ad val Free Free Free Free 20 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val 50 per cent ad val 50 per cent ad val 50 per cent ad val 54 per cent ad val 30 per cent ad val

A1012

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XV - PAKI TAN

PART I (Continued)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

favoured-nation Customs duties which exceed the preferential rate in the case of goods of U.K. origin, by more than 10 per cent ad val.

Ex 74(2) Wooden railway sleepers .....

15 per cent ad val

75(1 )

Motor cars including taxicabs and articles (other than rubber tyres and tubes) adapted for use as parts and accessories thereof , provided that such articles as are ordinarily also used for other purposes than as parts and accessories of motor vehicles included in this item or in items Nos. 75( 2) and 75( 3) shall be dutiable at the rate of duty specified for such articles...

Note : Provided this Agreement does not cease to be in force in the meantime , the products provided for under the above item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation Customs duties which exceeds the preferential rate for such products of United Kingdom origin
(a) by more than 6 per cent ad val for the first period of three years from the date on which this Agreement comes into force;

(b) by more than 3 per cent ad val from the beginning of the fourth year of coming into force of this Agreement ; and
(c) by any amount , from the beginning of the seventh year of coming into force of this Agreement .

76 Aeroplanes , aeroplane parts , aeroplane engines , aeroplane engine parts and rubber tyres and tubes used exclusively for aeroplanes....
Ex 77(2) Optical instruments ...
Ex 78 One-day alarm clocks ......

3 per cent ad val 20 per cent ad val 50 per cent ad val

79 Musical instruments and parts thereof, all sorts and records for talking machines ....
Ex 84 Fishing hooks......

50 per cent ad val 30 per cent ad val

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A1013

SCHEDULE XV - PAKISTAN

PART I (Concluded)

Indian Customs Tariff
Item No.

Description of Products

Ex 87 Wallboards of wood fibre......

Rate of Duty 25 per cent ad val

GENERAL NOTES

(1 )

The references in this Schedule to the

Indian Customs Tariff item numbers , Descrip-

tion of Products , Rate of Duty, etc. shall be

construed with reference to the First Schedule

to the Indian Tariff Aot , 1934 , as reproduced in the Indian Customs Tariff (Twenty-Seventh Issue) as compiled by the Department of

Commercial Intelligence and Statistics , India , and copies of which were furnished to all
Delegations attending the Second Session of

the Preparatory Committee of the United

Nations Conference on Trade and Employment , read with the notes and amendments thereto
circulated under Conference Secretariat doou-

ment E/PC/T/TRF/14 , dated the 7th May, 1947, and the subsequent amendments based on the

Indian Tariff (Amendment) Act , 1947 , also circulated to Delegations by the Conference Secretariat.

(2) The expression " not otherwise specified" in the description of products in column 2 of this Schedule , unless the context indicates to the contrary, shall be construed as " not otherwise specified" in the Indian Customs
Tariff referred to in the previous note.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1015

SCHEDULE XVI · SOUTHERN RHODESIA This Schedule is authentic only in the English language
PART I Most-favoured-Nation-Tariff

Southern Rhodesia Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Ex 86 Motorcycles

Rate of Duty 331% ad val.

Ex 86 Spare parts and accessories for motorcycles, but not including electric lamp bulbs, tyres and tubes, when imported separately

334% ad val.

118 Machinery, apparatus, appliances and implements
(not specially provided for, and not including domestic machines or vehicles) : -

(1) For agricultural purposes, but not including ploughs and parts thereof

ad val.

(11) Ploughs exceeding 120 lbs. in weight and parts thereof

15% ad val.

(iii) For mining purposes, inqluding structural steelwork for staging and platforms therefor; steel sets and guidos
(iv) Pumps and accessories therefor

5% ad val. 5% ad val.

A 122 Iran and steel sheets, plain, corrugated or galvanised

5% ad val.

Ex 130 Motor ambulances, trucks and van for the conveyance of goods, steam wagons and trailers therefor:-

(1) Complete vehicles assembled or unassembled

5% ad val.

(ii ) Chassis, with or without cab, imported for bodies to be built in Southern
Rhodesia

ad val.

Ex 130 Tractors, and parts thereof imported separately, including tyres, but not including tubes and electric lamp bulbs; under such conditions as the Controller may prescribe

5% ad val.

146 Tools: Mechanics ' , artisans' and machine tools, and workshop appliances

5% ad val.

A1016

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVI SOUTHERN RHODESIA PART I (concluded)

Southern Rhodesia Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Ex 154

Radio or wireless telegraphy and telephony instruments, apparatus and accessories, (but not including batteries) when imported for aircraft or by persons licensed by the Postmaster General to conduct a public radio servico

199 Oils, lubricating

Ex 203 Paints and Colours, ready mixed for use; and artists colours, enamels , waterpaints, distempers, colour-washes, flat oil paints, sheep marking oils and petrifying liquids
258 Rubber, unmanufactured: including synthetic rubber, latex , crude , waste , masticated and reclaimed rubber and gutta perche

Rate of Duty
Froo 3d. per Imperial gallon
20% ad val . 5% ad val.

GENERAL NOTES
The Tariff item numbers given herein refer to those appearing in the November 1946 Revised Edition of the Southern Rhodesian Customs Tariff.

PART II Preferential Tariff
Nil .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A1017

Revised Translation by Department of State SCHEDULE XVII - SYRO-LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION This Schedule is authentic only in the French language.
PART I Most-Favoured- Nation Tariff

Syro-Lebanese
Customs Union Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

35 Ivory and other animal tusks or teeth , tortoise- shell , mother- of- pearl and other shell , whalebone and bone of other cetaceans , coral and similar substances , raw, whether simply cut up , split or stretched (but not worked) , or not ; powder , parings and waste of these materials :
a) mother- of- pearl .....
b) other ......
62 Fruit specified under Items 59 to 61 , dried , whether or not cut in pieces or sliced :
b) Prunes ..
66 Vanilla .
67 b Cloves ....
83 Oil seeds and cleaginous fruits , whether or not crushed or ground :
a) cotton, hemp , copra , palm, palmnuts , peanuts , castor oil seeds , and linseed
b) other oil seeds and oleaginous fruits ....

25% 25%
40% 20% 20%
Free 11%

103 Fats and oils , refined or unrefined , from fish and marine animals :

a) cod-liver oil ......

11%

105 Fixed oils , liquid or solid , of vegetable origin, crude , purified or refined :

1) palm.....

25%

117 Other preparations and preserves of meat , not included under Item 18 :

b) other ...

25%

A1018

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVII SYRO-LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I ( Continued)

Syro -Lebanese Customs Union
Tariffnum1b8er

Description of Products

120 125 129 151 a 154 b 155
157- a -
157
192 b 192 c ex 194 c 206-4

Fish , prepared or preserved , not included under Item 20 .
Confectionery ....
Cocoa paste.....
Mineral waters , natural ...........
Champagnes .....
Wine prepared with aromatic plants (vermouth and the like) liqueur wines , dessert wines , aperitifs with a wine bage , etc. testing : more than 15 centesimal ....
Brandy, rum, absinth and the like , alcoholised liqueurs and aperitifs other than arrack and natural wine , of which the alcohol is produced by the distillation or fermentation of wines , fruits of any kind , sugar cane or of their molasses , testing :
2) 25° to 50° centesimal ..
3) under 250 centesimal .
Spirits of all kinds :
b) brandies , absinths , liqueurs or aperitifs other than arrack ....
2) 25° to 50° centesimal
Cement , white or coloured .....
Cement , melted ....
Mica , crude , in sheets , plates or rough discs , ground mica ....
Heavy minoral lubricating oils :
1) imported in barrels ......
2) imported in any other packing ....

Rate of duty
25% 30% 15%
5% 25%
30%
40% 30%
40% 11% 11% 15% 11% 11%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30 , 1947

A1019

SCHEDULE XVII SYRO- LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I ( Continued)

Syro-Lebanese Customs Union
Tariff item number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

210
213
217 218 224 237
240 d 243 a 244 c 245 a
248 249
263 266

Resins and pitch of mineral origin (obtained from coal- tar , lignite , petroleum , etc. ) .. ... Bromine and iodine :
b) iodine ......
Compressed , liquified , or solidified gases :
b) anhydrous ammonia ( ammonia gas ) ..... Nitric acid :
a) industrial ...... Sodium hydroxide ( caustic soda ) .. ...
Salts of hydrofluoric , silicic and hydrofluosilicic acids :
a) sodium silicate ...
Potash alum, chrome alum and ammonia alum Sodium sulphide ..... Calcium chloride ..... Chloride of lime ( calcium hypochlorite) ..
Salts of hydriodic and iodic acids ( iodides and iodates ) . Salts of arsenious and arsenic acids , arsenates of lime and lead :
1) for agricultural uses .. 2) for other uses .....
Peroxides , oxygenated water . Carbon disulphide

25%
11%
11%
11% Free
Free Free Free Free 11% 11%
Free 11% 11% Free

A1020

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVII - SYRO- LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I ( Continued)

Syro-Lebanese Customs Union Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

268

Chlorine , bromine and iodine aliphatic

hydrocarbon compounds :

d) iodoform....

e) other bromine and iodine hydrocarbon compounds .....

281

Disinfecting , fungicidal , insecticidal

and similar preparations not elsewhere

specified or included , and all products

used for the same purposes , put up for retail sale :

a) special products for agricultural uses.....

ex b) naphthalene .....

288

Alkaloids and their salts , glucosides :

c) quinine and its salts ..

ex d) theobromine ....

ex d) caffeine ....

292

Prepared medicaments , preparations in

doses and other pharmaceutical

preparations :

a) pharmaceutical products , various substances and preparations
imported exclusively for medicinal use ...

ex a) penicillin and preparations contain-

ing penicillin.....

·

294

Sensitised films and plates for photo-

graphy , of celluloid and similar

materials .....

295

Other sensitised plates for photo-

graphy , of glass , metal , etc ....

296

Sensitised papers and cards ......

11% 11%
Free 11% Free 25% 11%
11% 11% 15% 15% 20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A1021

SCHEDULE XVII - SYRO- LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I ( Continued)

Syro- Lebanese Customs Union Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

300 Dyewood extracts and other vegetable colouring extracts , including vegetable colours ....
306 Dry mineral colours , whether or not mixed with one another or with earth- colours , or with the addition of a colouring matter derived from coal tar :
b) lithopone and oxide of zinc ........
c) other ....
307 Dry colours , not elsewhere specified or included ......
308 Prepared colours of all kinds ....
309 Solid or liquid driers .....
319 Perfumery and cosmetic articles :
a) brilliantine and cosmetics ....... e - 1) toothpastes , dental washes
and powders
e - 2 ) other ....
320 Soaps : ex d) medicinal soaps .....
324 Waxes , encaustics , creams , pastes and similar preparations , for cleansing , polishing , preserving leather , footwear , metal wares , furniture , floors , etc .....
325 Candles and tapers of paraffin wax, stearin , tallow , wax : b) of pure paraffin wax ......

Free
11% 25% 25% 25% 25% 40% 25% 40% 25%
20%
25%

95347 0-49-pt. 5- 65

A1022

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVII SYRO-LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I ( Continued )

Syro-Lebanese
Custons Union Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

328 Gelatins .....

342 Fertilisers of animal or vegetable origin.

343 Nitrogenous mineral or chemical fertilisers ....

344 Phosphated mineral or chemical fertilisers ......

345 Potash fertilisers .....

346 Mineral or chemical fertilisers consisting of at least two of the fertilising elements :
nitrogen , phosphoric acid and potash ; mixtures of mineral or chemical fertilisers with fertilisers of animal or vegetable origin......

347 Fertilisers not elsewhere specified or included .....

348 Raw hides or skins ( fresh , salted , dried , limed , pickled )
c) other .....

353 Varnished ( patent ) , gilt , silvered , bronzed , leather (hides or skins )
362 Leather gloves ....

363 Technical articles of leather, other than sleeves and straps ....

371 Pastes , plates and sheets of nonvulcanised rubber , whether or not mixed with other substances ; rubber solutions .

375

b) Pneumatic tyres and inner tubes for

cars , motor cycles and bicycles ,

and other vehicles ...

377 Other articles made of rubber

20% Free Free Free Free
Free Free
Free 25% 25% 20% 25%
15% 25%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1023

SCHEDULE XVII - SYRO -LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I ( Continued )

Syro-Lebanese Customs Union
Tariff item number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

382
383
384
396 398b 419 and 420 427 436

Wood in the round , rough , whether or not stripped of the bark , or rough-hewn:

Ex k) other: Mahogany , ekoume

15%

k) other .....

15%

Wood squared with the axe , not elsewhere specified or included :

1) other

15%

Wood simply sawn lengthwise , not elsewhere specified or included :

1 ) other

15%

Wooden packing - cases or crates , whether in

shooks or not

25%

Telegraph and telephone poles

11%

Paper in rolls or sheets , not made up or worked :

c) Newsprint for printing daily and weekly papers
e) Cigarette paper Cigarette papers

Free 25% 25%

Booksellers ' wares not elsewhere specified or included

B. Bound books

3 ) other than old books with bindings of board or board covered with cloth

o) other

25% of the value of the leather or
of the value of the books .

A1024

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVII SYRO-LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION

PART I Continued )

Syro-Lebanese Customs Union
Tariff item number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

436 447 Ex 448 469 477 486
501 506
522
526 551

E- Catalogues and price lists not invoiced , newspapers and periodicals , etc.

Free

Ribbons of velvet or plush ,

others of natural silk

30%

Velvet and plush of natural silk

30%

Ribbons of pure artificial silk

30%

Ribbons of artificial silk waste and pure

artificial textile fibres .....

30%

Lace

a) of artificial silk , artificial silk

waste and pure artificial textile

fibres .....

30%

Woollen thread and yarn , carded ....

11%

Thread and yarn of wool , horsehair or other animal hair prepared for retail sale

b) other ....

11%

Cotton thread or yarn , single , measuring to the kg.:

b4 Bleached : more than 67000 metres ....

11%

Cotton thread or yarn put up for retail

sale .....

25%

o) Fabrics of flax , not mixed , not figured , known as linen lawn , intended for the manufacture of hand-
kerchiefs and imported in pieces with side length not exceeding 35 cm...... Free
(subject to control )

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1025

SCHEDULE XVII - SYRO-LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION

PART I ( Continued)

Syro - Lebanese Customs Union Tariff item
number 559
560 579 580
581A 589
594

Description of Products
Lace , tulles and net fabrics , plain or figured , of flax , hemp , ramie or other vegetable textile materials ex Chapter 49 : · lace
a) lace....
Embroidery of flax , hemp , ramie or other vegetable materials ex Chapter 49 Other technical articles of textile materials , not elsewhere specified or included
Hosiery of natural silk , pure or mixed : a) in the piece b ) gloves .....
Hosiery of artificial silk or artificial textile fibre , pure :
a) in the piece Bed linen , table linen and toilet linen :
a) 2 ) of natural silk b) 2 ) of artificial silk c) of wool fabrics a ) of cotton fabrics e ) of linen fabrics
Bags or sacks for packing : a) of jute fabrics

Rate of duty
25% 25% 25% 40% 40%
40% 40% 40% 30% 30% 30% Free

A1026

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVII · SYRO-LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I ( Continued)

Syro- Lebanese Customs Union Tariffhuimtbeemr
599
6046 Ex 607 615
622 623 625 629
635 636 642 701

Description of Products
Rags and scraps of fabrics , felts or hosiery, worn clothing and underwear , old nets , cordage and the like , in particular such as are adapted for nothing except unravelling , paper manufacture etc .:
a) worn clothing and underwear ..... b) other Boots of rubber
Fez .... Hats for women:
a) of natural or artificial silk b) of cotton
Crnamental feathers , prepared , etc. Made-up feather articles .....
Artificial flowers , foliage and fruits Wares of stone not elsewhere specified or included :
Ex a) black marble
Paper and board coated with natural or artificial abrasives ........ Fabrics coated with natural or artificial abrasives ...... Manufactures of asbestos Iron and steel in bars

Rate of Duty
25% 25% 25% 15%
40% 30% 25% 25% 25%
25% 15% 15% 25% 11%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30 , 1947

A1027

SCHEDULE XVII · SYRO -LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I ( Continued)

Syro-Lebanese Customs Union Tariff item
number 702
703
704 705
706 709 710 711

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Iron and steel wire , drawn :

a) simply drawn , so- called " olairs" .... 11%

b · 1 ) annealed , galvanized or

tinned up to and including 6 mm,

in diameter

11%

2 ) coppered , up to and including 6 mm. in diameter

o) other ....

25%

Sheet iron or steel , flat , unworked :

a) more than 1 mm . thick ....

11%

b) 1 mm . thick and less ....

11%

Sheet iron or steel , flat , worked on the

surface ......

11%

Sheet iron or steel , other :

1) galvanized

11%

2 ) wrought , bent and perforated , used

in the manufacture of tanks for

inflammable materials

11%

3) other ....

25%

Hoop iron or steel .....

11%

Tubes and pipes of iron or steel , straight

and of uniform thickness , unworked ......

11%

Tubes and pipes of iron or steel , of

special shape or worked

11%

Tubes and pipes of sheet iron or steel ,

riveted , nailed or fastened , whether or

not soft - soldered , including special

shapes and joints

11%

A1028

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVII SYRO-LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I ( Continued )

Syro - Lebanese
TCausrtiofmfs i, Utneimon number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

713

Iron or steel rails for railways and

tramways , whether or not perforated or

curved

11%

714

Iron or steel sleepers ( ties ) for

railways

11%

715

Fishplates , bed- plates , clips and gauge

bars , for laying or fixing rails , of

iron , steel or malleable cast iron

11%

716

Switches , frog - points , track crossings

and points , switch rods , rack railways

and portable tracks of iron , cast iron ,

steel or malleable cast iron, for railways

and tramways ...

11%

719

Metallic structures and their finished

or processed parts , of iron , steel or

malleable cast iron , such as bridge

sections , girders , marquees , roofs ,

etc .....

11%

720

Tanks , tuns , vats and other large

receptacles , without mechanical device ....

25%

721

Transport casks and drums of sheet iron

or steel

Free

726

Chains and parts thereof , of iron , steel

or malleable cast iron

11%

740

Table ware and other household , kitchen

and hygienic utensils , of sheet iron

or steel

25%

757

Copper bars and wire :

B) copper and brass wire

11%

759

Thin leaves of copper , rolled or

hammered

20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1029

SCHEDULE XVII · SYRO -LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I ( Continued )

Syro -Lebanese Customs Union Tariff item
number 760 786 791
794
797
802b 809
810
811
812

Description of Products

Rate of duty

.....

Copper tubes and pipes Rolled or drawn lead
Rolled or drawn zinc :
b) in leaves : 2 ) other
Tin , unworked :
a) cast in lumps , pigs , plates , ingots or pellets ....
Tin solder , whether or not alloyed with lead in any proportion , etc :
a ) in sticks ...
Table knives , non-folding , of base metals , gilt , silvered or plated with precious metals
Spoons and forks of all kinds :
a ) of base metals
b) of base metals , gilt , silvered or plated with precious metals
Articles for table use , not elsewhere specified or included :
a) and b)
Ornamental articles for the house , not elsewhere specified or included :
a) and b)
Lighting apparatus , lamps of any kind , ehandeliers etc .:
a) and b) .....

20% 11%
11% 11% 11% 30% 25% 30% 25 & 30% 25 & 30% 25 & 30%

A1030

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

SCHEDULE XVII SYRO -LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION

PART I ( Continued )

Syro-Lebanese Customs Union Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

823

Explosion and internal combustion

motors :

b) motors for aircraft , cars , cycles and watercraft :

1 ) for cars 2 ) other

30 plasters per kg . net , with minimum duty 25%
15%

o ) motors intended for use in agriculture ...

Free ( subject to control )

d) other :

1 ) for use in industry

1%

2) other uses

7.5%

827

Pumps for liquids ( centrifugal pumps ,

rotary piston pumps and others ) :

a) fixed pumps intended for use in agriculture

Free ( subject to control )

d) other :

1) for use in industry

1%

2 ) other uses

7.5%

834

Agricultural machinery and appliances for

working , preparing and cultivating the soil

Free ( subject

to control )

835

Machines and appliances for the harvesting

of agricultural produce , agricultural

threshing , shelling and sorting machines

etc.

Free ( subject

to control )

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1031

SCHEDULE XVII - SYRO-LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I ( Continued )

TYTO-Lebanese Justoms Union Tariff item
number 836 837 839
841 844 845
846 847
849 852 853 854

Description of Products

Rate of duty

Agricultural machines and appliances not ) elsewhere specified or included
Machines and appliances for flour- mills

Free ( subject to control )

Machines for the production of cold :

a) for use in industry

1%

b) other

25%

a) Machinery for manufacturing footwear 25%

Machines for the preparation of textile materials , for spinning and twisting ..... 1%

Weaving looms , hosiery looms and knitting

machines , tulle , lace , embroidery and

passementerie looms and accessory machines

and apparatus for weaving , etc ...

1%

Machinery and apparatus for the dressing and finishing of thread , tissues etc ..... 1%

Sewing machines of any kinds ,

a) for special uses

1%

b) other

25%

Machine-tools

1%

Typewriters and detached parts thereof ... 20%

Calculating machines , cash registers and

detached parts thereof

20%

prfice machines and apparatus not elsewhere

specified or included

25%

A1032

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVII - SYRO-LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I ( Continued)

Syro-Lebanese
TCuasrtiofmfsiUtneimon number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

855 Machinery , apparatus and mechanical appliances not elsewhere specified or included :
g) other :
2 1 for use in industry
3. other uses ......
856 Taps , cocks and valves and all constituent parts and apparatus for regulating the passage of fluids through conduits
858 Components and detached parts of machines , apparatus and mechanical appliances , not elsewhere specified or included : a) agricultural and industrial
c) 1 for motors to be used in agriculture or industry , or for marine engines ..
c) 2- other
861 Electric accumulators and their plates
868 Radio-electric apparatus for telegraphy , telephony and television :
b) lamps , valves and tubes
c) other
873 Apparatus for measuring and registering electric energy ....
874 Insulated cables and wire for electricity , whatever their insulating substance ...
878 Apparatus for regulating , cutting off, protecting and distributing electric current , and all electrotechnical articles and detached parts of electric machinery and apparatus , not elsewhere specified or included

1% 25% 25%
7.50% 7.50% 20% 20%
25% 25% 20% 20%
20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1033

SCHEDULE XVII · SYRO-LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I (Continued)

Syro-Lebanese toms Union number 879
880 881 882
883 884 887
889
890

Description of Products
Steam locomotives , including tender locomotives ...... Electric locomotives
Electric rail-cars .....
Other locomotives , rail-cars and locotractors
Tenders of locomotives
Passenger carriages
Components and detached parts of railway and tramway rolling- stock, not elsewhere specified or included
Tractors with explosion , internal combustion or gas engines ...
Automobiles , with coachwork or complete : a - Touring cars in full working order ,
weighing less than 1,500 kg : 1 - less than 7 h.p. 2 · from 7 to 15 h.p. exclusive 3 · from 15 to 20 h.p. exclusive 4 - from 20 to 25 h.p. exclusive
5- 25 h.p. and over b- Touring cars in full working order ,
weighing 1,500 kg and over but less than 2,000 kg : 1 - less than 15 h.p. 2 · from 15 to 20 h.p. exclusive
3 - from 20 to 25 h.p. exclusive 4 - 25 h.p. and over

Rate of duty
11% 11% 11% 11% 11% 11%
11% 10%

A1034

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVII · SYRO-LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I ( Continued)

Syro- Lebanese
CTuasrtiofmfsiUtnemion number

Description of Products
Touring cars in full working order , weighing 2,000 kg and over : 1 - less than 15 h.p. 2 - from 15 to 20 h.p. exclusive 3 · from 20 to 25 h.p. exclusive 4 - 25 h.p. and over

Rate of duty

Note : For the tariff treatment applied to this Item, reference should be made to the letter dated 3 September 1947 , concerning
the import duties charged by the SyroLebanese Customs Union on motor cars . This letter was addressed to the United States Delegation to the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Employment by the Syrian and Lebanese Delegations to that Session and copies have also been sent to the Secretariat of the abovementioned Preparatory Committee for distribution to the other delegations present .

893 Components and detached parts of automobiles and tractors , whether finished or hot, not elsewhere specified or included :
1 - steering wheels , brake-drums , springs , wheels without tyre

9.6 plasters per kg.net with a mini-
mum duty of 25%

2 - cylinder -blocks , cylinder-heads , admission and exhaust manifolds , exhaust pipes and silencers , axles and hubs , rear-axles (not including the differential )

14.4 piasters per kg . net with a minimum duty of 25%

3 - other

24 plasters per kg . net with a mini-
mum duty of 25%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1035

S3EDULE XVII SYRO-LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I ( Continued)

Syro-Lebanese Customs Union Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of duty

4768

Motor-cycles and cycles with engines ;

side- cars

25%

895 Cycles without engines

20%

896 Components and detached parts of motorcycles and cycles :

a) motor-cycles ....

25%

b) cycles

20%

901 Aeroplanes and other heavier- than-air

apparatus .....

15%

902 Components and detached parts of airships ,

balloons and aeroplanes , excluding engines

15%

908 Optical glasses , worked , unmounted .....

15%

909 Mountings for spectacles , eye-glasses and

similar articles .....

15%

910 Spectacles , eye- glasses and similar

articles , with mountings ..

15%

911 Mounted lenses and prisms for optical

instruments , magnifying glasses and

optical mirrors , mounted

15%

912 Telescopes , binoculars and spyglasses and

mountings thereof ....

15%

913 Photographic apparatus , with or without

objective , and parts thereof

30%

914 Cinematograph and projection apparatus

and parts thereof

30%

914 Photographic apparatus , projection

bis apparatus and parts thereof for use in

the cinema industry ..

1%

915 Optical apparatus or instruments not

elsewhere specified or included , and

mountings thereof

15%

A1036

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVII - SYRO-LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I ( Continued)

Syro - Lebanese CustomsiUtneimon

Description of Products

Rate of duty

916

Precision scales , including weights

15%

917

Thermometers , barometers , etc. and

similar instruments

15%

918

Gas and water meters , and components and

detached parts thereof .

15%

919

Revolution counters , speedometers ,

distance recorders and similar instruments

and components and detached parts thereof . 15%

920

Manometers and other measuring apparatus

for machines and vehicles

15%

921

Measuring and drawing instruments , not

elsewhere specified or included ...

15%

922

Instruments and apparatus for geophysics ,

meteorology , hydrography , sea and air

navigation and astronomy , not elsewhere

specified or included

a) Apparatus and materials for meteorological observations ...
b) other ....

Free ( subject to control)
15%

923

Medical and surgical instruments and

apparatus , not elsewhere specified or

included

15%

924

Orthopaedic apparatus and parts thereof ·

15%

924

Masks and special equipment for indi-

bis

vidual protection against noxious gases

Free

925

Apparatus and models for demonstration

and instruction

15%

926

Physical , chemical and precision instru-

ments and apparatus not elsewhere

specified or included

15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1037

SCHEDULE XVII - SYRO-LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART I (Continued )

Syro -Lebanese TCausrtoms Union iffumber

Description of Products

Rate of duty

927 Components and detached parts of instruments and apparatus included in Chapter 77 , hot elsewhere specified or included ..
936 Upright and grand pianos , including automatic pianos ......
938 a) Components and detached parts of pianos
Ex 944 Gramophone records
a) for instruction
b) other ...
978 Articles for entertainment and amusement ; articles and accessories for Christmas trees
979 Articles for sport , football , etc.
981 Buttons for wearing apparel and clothing .. 982 Fountain pens and stylographic pens ,
propelling pencils and their detached parts ......
984 Pipes and pipe -bowls

15% 25% 25%
Free 40%
30% 25% 20%
25% 30%

Note : Each time the formula " subject to control" appears in the Rate of Duty column , it should be read as " subject to control of their use " .

95347 0-49- pt. 5- 66

A1038

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.
SCHEDULE XVII J SYRO-LEBANESE CUSTOMS UNION PART II
Preferential Tariff Nil

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1039

SCHEDULE XVIII - UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA This Schedule is authentic only in the English language .
PART I Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

"(0) (111 )
3(1 )(a)

Animals , living : Horses -
other

..... each

Biscuits, oakes , puddings and pastry .. ad valorem or per lb.
whichever duty shall be the greater

832

£3 25 p.o.

4(a)

Bones , feathers n.e.e. , hoofs, horns, ivory ,

shells , skins n.e.e. , teeth, wool and other parts

of animals , fishes or reptiles, not being manu-

factured, polished or further prepared than dried

or cleaned , but in their raw and unmanufactured

state .....

Free

5 7(1) 8
(a)
11 (2) 12
(a) (b)

Note : Dry salted , wet salted and pickled hides and skins shall be classed as rew and unmanu-
factured skins.

Butter .....

per lb.

Casein in bulk

Cheese :

Containing not less than 45 per cent milk fat

in its water-free substance and being free from

foreign fat

...per lb.

with a rebate therefrom of

per lb.

on such classes as are not produced in the Union as the Minister may prescribe .....
or

ad valorem

whichever duty shall be the greater

Chicory root , raw or dried only

...per lb.

Turmerio ground unground

...per lb.

Cocoa : Beans, raw .....

Nibs and shells

per lb.

28

24 Free
6d 24
25 p.o. a 24 Free Free 14

A1040

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVIII · UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued )

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

13 (a)

Coffee : Raw

...... per lb. ld

14 (a)

Confectionery : Slab chocolate ( plain , milk , nut or fruit) ..... ........ per lb. or ad valorem
whichever duty shall be the greater

88

4d 30 p.c.

(b)

Plain or fancy of all kinds , compounded , made or

preserved with sugar; sweetened cocoa or choco-

late ; sweetmeats ; crystallized fruits , candied

or preserved ginger ( not being for manufacturing

purposes ) and chow-chow; christmas stockings ;

crackers or bon-bons and surprise packets ......

.....per lb. 44

or

ad valorem 30 p.c.



whichever duty shall be the greater

Note : Medicated confectionery properly classed 88 a medicinal preparation is excluded from the above .

15
(a) (1 )

Corn and grain , excluding infants' or diabetics '

foods , patent or proprietary foods , or corn or

grain prepared as vegetables : Wheat -

in the grain

....

Note : There shall be no preference either in

the ordinary or the special duty on this item

( 11 )

ground or otherwise prepared

....

Note : There shall be no preference either in

the ordinary or the special duty on this item .

(a )

Rice in the grain

Free

@@

(e) (11)

Oats -

rolled , ground or otherwise prepared , in bulk

......

....... per 100 lb.

12s 64

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1041

SCHEDULE XVIII UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued )

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

16 (a )

Cream of tartar

.per lb.

or

ad valorem

whichever duty shall be the greater

4d 30 p.c.

30 2220
202

(b)

Substitutes for cream of tartar , namely, acid

phosphates of aluminium, calcium and sodium ...... ..per lb. 2d

or

ad valorem 30 p.c.

whichever duty shall be the greater

17 (a)

Eggs in the shell

.per lb. 2d

ex (b) 18(1 )

whole or part contents , liquid ........ .per lb.

Extracts and essences of all kinds for food or

flavouring , n.e.e. , including concentrated soup

but excluding extract of malt , virol , roboleine

and similar tonic foods

...... ad valorem .

5d 25 p.c.

19 (e) ex (1)

Fish : Other tinned sardines in oil

per lb. 3d

21 (c)
22 (a) (1)

Foods :
Other patent or proprietary farinaceous and cereal foods , excluding oatmeal and rolled oats
..... ad valorem

Fruits : Fresh or green apples ......

.ad valorem

25 p.c. 5 p.c.

@

ex(b)
ex (b) (e)

Bottled , tinned or otherwise preserved , includ-

ing candied peel , but excluding pulp in bulk ,

crystallized fruits , bananas , pineapples,

oranges and guavas ......

.......per lb.

or

ad valorem

whichever duty shall be the greater

Drained glace cherries , sweetened ....... per lb.

Blackberry, blackcurrant and raspberry pulp , in bulk, for use in the manufacture of those jams for export , under such conditions as the Minister may prescribe ....

2d 30 p.c. ld
Free

A1042

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVIII · UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

20 28

22 (Cont'd) (f)
25 26 27
28 30
(b)
ex 31 33
(a) (11)

Other pulp in bulk, and tamarinds ....... per lb. or
ad valorem whichever duty shall be the greater

Horsehair or other animal hair, not being further prepared than dried, cleaned , bleached or dyed ...

Hops in bulk ...........

..ad valorem

Jams , Jellies and honey ; pudding , cake and jelly

powders .....

...... per lb.

or

ad valorem

whichever duty shall be the greater

Lard and edible meat fats

..............per lb.

Meats , soups ( not concentrated ) , and similar substences used as food , but excluding extracts and essences :
Meats, fresh , frozen , salted or oured , but ex-
cluding chipped or sliced dried beef packed in containers of less than 1 lb ............ per lb.

Pates de foie gras and foies gras, potted or

tinned .....

......per lb.

Nuts, edible : Coconuts -
desiccated , unsweetened ...

............... ..ad valorem

lad 30 p.c. Free 5 p.c. ad 30 p.c.
44 3d 15 p.c.

(111 )

desicoated , sweetened

..ad valorem 25 p.c.

ex(c)

Brazil

.per lb. 2d

ex 35 (1 ) (a)
ex 35(1) (a)

Peas and lentils : Dried , except maple peas
Beans : Dried

..per 100 lb. 2s 100 per 100 lb. 3s. Od .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1043

36

SCHEDULE XVIII · UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

35(2) (a)

Groundnuts : Dried, unshelled .......

..... per 100 lb. 38 9d

(b)

Shelled , ground or otherwise prepared

....

... per 100 lb. 4s 6d

35 ( 3 ) (a)

Other leguminous seeds n.e.e : Dried ....

..per 100 lb. ls 10d

36 (a)
38

Pickles and condiments :

Pickles , sauces, chutneys and other condiments..

...

...... per lb. 21d

Rennet

Free

¥ 999

40(1)

Seeds , bulbs , plants , trees and tubers, for plant-

ing and sowing only, excluding those ordinarily

used for food or fodder, provided that seed-

potatoes may be imported under this item on pro-

duction of a permit issued by the Secretary for

Agriculture and Forestry prior to such importa-

tion , and of a certificate issued by an officer

of that Department , duly appointed for the pur-

pose, certifying that such potatoes satisfy the conditions and purpose of the aforementioned per-

mit

Free

41(a) (1)
( 111 )
(b) (11 )
43 ex (b)

Spices : Whole, decorticated or broken, but not ground or crushed ; excluding coriander seed .......

Other

per lb.

Sage , thyme , marjoram and other culinary herbs -

other .....

..per lb.

Sugar and sugar substitutes :

Golden and maple syrup, jaggery, molasses ,

saccharum and treacle ....

...... per 100 lb.

Free 214 244
48 6d

ex (c ) ex (d )

Sugar of milk (Lactose ) Saccharine

...per 100 lb. per lb.

128 6d . 15s Od

44

Tapioca , sago and arrowroot

Free

633

A1044

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVIII - UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I · (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

45 (a)

Tea -

in packets or tins , not exceeding 10 lb. each in

weight .......

.... per lb. 14

(b)

in larger containers

Free

46

Vegetables :

ex (a)

Fresh chicory leaves (witloof)

Free

ex (b)

Tinned asparagus .....

...ad valorem 15 p.c.

ex (b )

Mushrooms , tinned or otherwise preserved ....... Free

48(a)

Ale , beer, cider and perry, all kinds of strength exceeding 3 per cent of proof spirit ........
........ per imp.gallon

43 6d

(b)
49 (a)

Stout , exceeding 3 per cent of proof spirit .... ...... per imp gallon
Beverages : Fruit juices, cordials and syrups , n.e.e ........ ...... ad valorem

48 6d 20 p.c.

50 (a)

Spirits and alcohol :

Perfumed , and perfumery exceeding 3 per cent of

proof spirit ...

...per imp. gallon

and in addition ad valorem

£2.10s od 15 p.o.

(b)

Liqueurs , cordials and mixed potable spirits , ex-

ceeding 3 per cent of proof spirit .....

....

....... per imp . gallon £1.188 6d

or

ad valorem 25 p.o.

whichever duty shall be the greater

(c)

Other potable spirits exceeding 3 per cent of

proof spirit ...

..........per imp. proof gallon £4 2s. 6d

Note : No allowance will be made for underproof in excess of 15 per cent .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1045

SCHEDULE XVIII - UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued)

South African Tariff item
mmber

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

50 (Cont'd) (h) ´(1)
(11)
(iii)
52 ex (0) 53 62(a)
(2) ( 1)
(11)

Toilet preparations ( liquid)

containing over 3 per cent of proof spirit and

not falling under sub-paragraph ( ii) or ( iii) ..

....

....

per imp. gallon

or

ad valorem

whichever duty shall be the greater

£1 188 6d 40 p. C.

overproof, containing over 100 per cent proof

spirit and not falling under sub-paragraph (iii)

...

........ per imp. proof gallon

or

ad valorem

whichever duty shall be the greater

£ 178 6d 40 p. c.

containing more than 50 per cent by weight of

propyl alcohol

......... per imp. gallon £1 178 64

and in addition thereto for each multiple of 5
per cent or part thereof in excess of 50 per cent by weight of alcohol ......................................per imp. gallon
or
ad valorem whichever duty shall be the greater

28 9d 40 p. o.

Wines: Champagne ..

..per imp. gallon 198 Od

Cigars and cigarillos

...... per lb. 88 6d

Blankets and rugs, shawls , n. e.e. , sheets commonly
used as blankets or rugs and known as kaffir sheets:

Weighing more than 12 oz . each and imported singly or in pairs or in the piece ·

consisting wholly of ootton, or of cotton and

wool containing more than 60 per cent of cotton

.......

.per lb.

or

ad valorem

whichever duty shall be the greater

8a 25 p.o.

containing 40 per cent or more of wool..per lb. 11d or
ad valorem 25 p.o. whichever duty shall be the greater

285

A1046

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVIII - UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued )

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

61 (a) (Cont'd)

(111 )

other ....

.per lb. or
ad valorem whichever duty shall be the greater

65 (a)

Clothing :

Bespoke , or made by a tailor or dressmaker to

the order of an individual , including men's

partly finished clothing but excluding under-

clothing ......

..ad valorem

1s 24 25 p.o.
30 p.c.

66 (a)
67 (a) (11 )

Coir, cotton , fibre , flax, grass , hemp , manilla , jute , silk and moss , raw, waste and unmanufactured; flock and waste rayon ....

Furs:

Fur skins -

in the single original pelt , wholly or partly

dressed ......

...... ad valorem

Free 15 p..

69

(0)
68
69 (0) (1) (1)
70 (a)

Other, including muffs and articles of apparel (except gloves ) made from furs ....... ad valorem

Gloves , except gloves made wholly of rubber, firemen's (fire brigade ) gauntlets , anti -gas gloves, and gloves specially constructed for agricultural, industrial and sporting purposes ....... ad valorem

Hats , caps and bonnets , and hoods and shapes :

Rubber bathing caps

..... ad valorem

Ladies '

trimmed (but linings , bands and borders do not

constitute trimming)

..... ad valorem

Hosiery: Socks Note : There shall be no preference on this item.

33 p...
15 p.c. 15 p.o. 25 p.o. ....

(b) 71

Stockings of artificial fibres ....... ad valorem

Laces, lace curtaining , lace flouncing and lace

embroidery , in the piece or in the form of in-

sertions or medallions

...... ad valorem

15 p.c. 10 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1047

SCHEDULE XVIII · UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

ex 73(1 ) 76

Pins and needles .....

..ad valorem

Piece goods , not being canvas , blanketing or kaffir sheeting :

10 p.c.

Note : In the case of piece goods exceeding 30 inches in width , "yard" shall mean 36 inches by 30 inches in width, and the free-on-board price and the duty at per yard shall be calculated proportionately to the width.

(a)

Cotton (woven or knitted) ·

ex (1 )

containing 50 per cent or more by weight of

cotton but no rayon, the free- on-board price

of which exceeds 1s 3d but does not exceed

28 Od per yard .....

....

ex (11 )

of cotton and rayon with or without other

materials, containing 50 per cent or more by

weight of cotton, the free-on-board price of which exceeds 1s 3d but does not exceed 2s od

per yard

....

Note : Piece goods containing 50 per cent of
cotton and 50 per cent of rayon shall be deemed to be rayon.

Note : The products provided for under items
76 (a) (1 ) and ( ii ) above shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 5% ad valorem.

(0)(1)

Other woven fabrics in the piece n.e.e.-

containing 50 per cent or more by weight of

rayon ...

..ad valorem

or

per yard

less

ad valorem

whichever duty shall be the greater

30

5 p.c. 3d 5 p.o.

(11)

containing more than 50 per cent by weight of

silk .........

......... ad valorem 10 p.c.

ex (iv)

containing 50 per cent or more by weight of

flax ......

....... ad valorem

5 p.c.

A1048

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVIII - UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

79

Shawls : cashmere , lace and silk ; knitted and

crocheted shawls ; and other shawls weighing not

more than 12 oz. each

...ad valorem 15 p.c.

81 (2)

Grafting tape for trees

Free

82( 1 )

Airships , aeroplanes , and other aircraft , includ-

ing completed parts thereof, and rubber cables for

launching gliders .....

Free

84(2) (a)

Baths, metal , other : Galvanized ....

....... ad valorem 20 p.c.

(a)

Enamelled, other than porcelain or vitreous

enamelled ....

..... ad valorem 20 p.c.

(0 )

Other .....

.................. .ad valorem 20 p.c.

86 (b) (a)

Motor cycles and sidecars , and parts and accessories ; but excluding electric lamp bulbs , batteries, tyres and tubes and parts specially provided for in this item, when imported separately .... ad valorem

Sparking plugs for motor cycles

..... each

20 p.o. 3d

(1)

| Driving chains for motor cycles ......... per foot 32d

89(a) (11 ) 94 96

Switches , points and crossings for rails not exceeding 30 lb. per running yard ........ ad valorem
Cash registers and calculating machines , including tabulators and sorting machines used therewith ...
..... ad valorem
Chimneys ( smoke stacks ) , metal ......... ad valorem

5 p.c.
5 p.c. 20 p.c.

96

97(1 )

Cranes, mechanical excavators and loaders , winches

not being for whaling , trawling or mining purposes,

hoisting crabs , chain blocks , spiral chutes ,

gravity conveyors and shears .....

....

Note : There shall be no preference on this item.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1049

SCHEDULE XVIII - UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued )

South African
Tariff item number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

101 (b)

Dairy utensils and machinery : Cheese moulds , tinned ..

..... ad valorem 5 p.c.

( ) ( )

Other dairy utensils and machinery ; butter churn

trolleys ; ungalvanized unwelded milk bottle

crates ; and filter pads

Free

(a)

Metal castings and drinking bowls for the manu-

facture of cow stalls

Free

103 (a)

Engines and motors , and propellor shafts , stern

tubes and propellors imported with and for use with

such engines and motors , for fishing and whaling

boats and mercantile marine purposes , and trawl

and whaling winches , excluding spare parts ;

fairleads , tackle blocks and towing and snatch

blocks for trawlers ...

Free

107(a)

Filters : being machinery , apparatus and appliances directly connected with and essential to the construction of water filtering or water purifying plants , attached to or used in connection with a public or mine water supply system, public swimming baths , electric power stations , or machinery for manufacturing and industrial purposes ........ Free

(b)

Filters , other , for the purification or softening

of water

Free

Filters and apparatus , not being parts of motor

vehicles for the purification and cleaning of oil ;

and oil separators ......

Free

(f)
108 (a) (0)

Air conditioning machinery n.e.e. and air distri-

butors and inlets used in connection therewith ;

and ventilating fans

..ad valorem

Firearms :

Guns and rifles , including barrels therefor ,

single, n.e.e. .....

....... per barrel

Guns and rifles , including barrels therefor ,

double and other ...

....... per barrel

5 p.c. £1 Os Od 158 Od

A1050

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVIII · UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

(0)

108 (Cont'd) (a)

Revolvers and pistols , including barrels there-

for

... each

and in addition in the oase of (a) , (b ) and (c )

......

................ad valorem

Gun and rifle furniture

...... ad valorem

5s Od 20 p.c. 20 p.c.

(e)

Rifles, miniature , of a calibre not exceeding

.22 , and guns of a calibre not exceeding .420,

and barrels therefor, single

..............each 158 Od

(1)

Rifles , miniature , of a calibre not exceeding

.22, and guns of a calibre not exceeding .420 ,

including barrels therefor, double and other ....

..each 10s od

(8) 109
110 (b)

Humane animal killers

Free

Fire escapes ; fire alarms excluding batteries ; and

fire extinguishing appliances and apparatus

Free

Furniture:
Furniture, upholstery and mattress springs, metal , imported singly, or in lengths or coils.. Free

111(1)

Gauze , sieving and screening , of metal , for use in

connection with machinery; copper or brass gauze

for dynamo brushes ; woven wire screening for min-

ing purposes ; and rubber-coated metal screening in

sheets for industrial or mining purposes .......

Free

25

(2) (3) 116
(a) (0)
(11)

Wire gauze , mosquito and fly ........... ad valorem

Wire gauze n.e.e. ...

.................ad valorem

Lamps and lampware , excluding motor vehicle and oycle lamps and lampware :
Ships' navigation lamps

Gaslamps -

miners' hand and bucket acetylene lamps and

parts thereof including reflectors but not

burners

...... ad valorem

5 p.0. 15 p.c. Free
25 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1051

SCHEDULE XVIII UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

117

Lifts, hydraulic or electrical , including the

gates and metal doors ; and lifting jacks .......

Free

118

Machinery, apparatus , appliances and implements,

n.e.e. , but excluding material , domestic machines,

and vehicles:

ex (a)

Binders, brooders , chaff cutters , cultivators other than hand cultivators , disc - cultivating drills, disc harrows, disc ploughs , drills including combined grain and fertilizer drills for sowing small grain, fertilizer distributors , hay rakes , header harvesters including auto headers and engine -functioned header harvesters , inoubators, mowers ground drive and power-take-off types , pick-up hay balers mobile types , planter,a reapers, reaper-binders , scarifiers , seeders , strippers including stripper harvesters , threshing machines ; parts for the above classes of machines and implements ..

Free

(0) (9)

Fixed plant and machinery for factory installation, but excluding structural steelwork for staging and platforms ............

Free

For mining purposes n.e.e. ............................. ad valorem 5 p.o.

(0)

Rock drill sharpener spares ( including dies and

dollies ) , rivet-sets and chisel blanks , un-

finished

Free

(8)

Other, for manufacturing and industrial purposes ;

air compressors ; serrated saw banding ; concrete

mixers ; machinery for power laundries ; leather

measuring machines for use in boot factories and

tanneries; workshop machinery and appliances

ordim rily used in a motor garage for manufac-

turing, testing and repair work ; unfinished

rolls for iron and steel rolling mills and unfinished roller shells for sugar milling

machinery; but excluding structural steelwork

for staging and platforms ............ad valorem 3 p.a.

Note : 011 , petrol and tyre pumps, washing out-

fits, grease guns, and other appliances

ordinarily used for service in a motor ser-

vice station do not fall under the heading

of "workshop machinery and appliances" .

A1052

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVIII - UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I · (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

118 (Cont'd) (1)

Liners (manganese and chrome steel ) for rod and ball mills .....

122 (g)( 11 )

Iron and steel : Rolled steel sections , perforated or put toget-
her or worked up in any way or marked for working, for the manufacture of steel windows and doors and steel frames therefor ...... ad valorem

(K)

Structural steelwork n.e.e. ........................ .ad valorem

123 (a)

Lead : Sheet , plain ...................

per 100 lb.

(b)

Foil, and powder in bulk

124 (a)(1 )

Tin and zinc :

Plates , sheets and strips , not worked up in any

way except perforated .......

.....

Free
20 p.c. 20 p.c. 28 Od Free Free

(11)

Tin foil , and powder in bulk .....

Free

(6)

Zino plates and sheets (polished ) , for litho-

graphic work ........

Free

ex 126(a ) ex 126(a) 127
(a)

Aluminium in rods, bars , blocks , ingots and pigs..
Lead in rods , bars , blocks , ingots and pigs
Metal sheets , metal badges, metal name or number plates , and similar articles:
Enamelled , except corrugated iron roofing sheets ...... ad valorem

Free Free
25 p..

(b)

Printed , lithographed or embossed .... ad valorem 25 p.c.

(0)

Varnished or lacquered but excluding lacquered

tinplate ......

..ad valorem 15 p.o.

(a)

Lacquered tinplate

..ad valorem 15 p.o.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1053

SCHEDULE XVIII - UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued )

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

129 (a)

Motor cars, excluding radio apparatus : of a free-on-board value not exceeding £400 .... ...... ad valorem

20 p.c.

(0)

Of a free-on-board value exceeding £400 but not

exceeding £600 .........

...... ad valorem 20 p.c.

ex (c )

of a free-on-board value exceeding £600 but not

exceeding £800 .......

.... ad valorem

25 p.c.

ex (c )

Of a free-on-board value exceeding £800 ........

.......

..... ad valorem

30 p.c.



(h)
130 (c) (1)

Parts and accessories , but excluding electric lamp bulbs , batteries , tyres and tubes and parts specially provided for in this item ......
............... ..ad valorem

Motor trucks and motor vans for the conveyance of

goods , and steam wagons , and motor char-a-bancs,

omnibuses , ambulance vans and hearses:

Chassis ( including tipping gear ) imported for

bodies to be built in the Union , except for

motor vans as provided for in paragraph ( d ) -

in a completely unassembled condition

..........

..... ad valorem

20 p.o. 3 p.c.

(11)

otherwise, including single unit packings .....

..ad valorem 5 p.c.

Note : The importation of parts and materials in
the form as prescribed in paragraph ( d ) ( 1 ) for the construction of a metal cab for attachment to a chassis will not debar the chassis from admission as a chassis .

(e)

Parts and accessories , but excluding electric

lamp bulbs , batteries, tyres and tubes and

parts specially provided for in this item ......

...ad valorem 20 p.o.

95347 0-49- pt. 5- -67

A1054

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVII · UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I · (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

131 (a)

Packing and lagging for engines , machinery and piping, and packing for buildings, but excluding jute gasketting, white and red leads , zine oxide, leather, rubber sheets and sheeting with or without insertion interplies, and other rubber packing

(a)

Washers other than of metal , leather and rubber ..

134 (1)

Pipes, piping , tubes , and fittings, of metal : gas ,

steam, drainage, sewerage , irrigation, water

supply and water pumping ; excluding grids , man-

hole covers and fittings, and surface boxes :

(a) ( 11 ) Down-piping and guttering, other than of cast-

iron, and fittings therefor; fittings for cast-

iron down-piping and guttering ; riveted

wrought iron or steel pipes and tubes ; brass

bends and junctions for sanitary and waste-

water pipes

........ ad valorem

ex 135

Presses: hay , power operated, including internal combustion engines forming an integral part thereof, and parts for such hay presses ....

ex 136 (b)
138 (a)

All automatic or semi -automatic drawing off pumps used in connection with the brewing of beer ......
Railway construction or equipment requisites : Girders, iron bridgework, culvert tops , trolleys and cane trucks .... ........ ad valorem

ex (b)

Weighbridges .....

Free Free
20 p.o. Free Free 20 p.o. Free

(a) ( 111 )

Switches, points and crossings , n.e.e .; switch-

boxes; and fastenings n.e.e. for rails or

sleepers ........

......................ad valorem

3 p.o.

ex 139 140

Refrigerating machinery and mechanically or

chemically cooled refrigerators having a storage

capacity exceeding 12 cubic feet ......

Free

Sewing and knitting machines , not being industrial

machinery, and needles therefor; spinning wheels

and weaving looms, and accessories therefor, not

being industrial machinery

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1055

SCHEDULE XVIII - UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

141(1)

Sprayers and sprinklers and other apparatus used

for the prevention or destruction of weeds , agri-

oultural pests , or of diseases in stock, plants

or trees ......

Free

146 ex (a)

Tools not being agricultural implements or machine tools :

Mechanics ' , being tools ordinarily used by

mechanics or artizans ...

...... ad valorem

3 p.o.

247(a)

Traction engines ; stone crushers ( not being mining

machinery)and mechanical stone driers ; bull -and

angledozers ; scrapers ; street sweeping machines ;

steam and motor road rollers , road scarifiers , and

road surface material spreaders (mechanical ) ;

mechanical thrust borers , power rammers , rippers

and screens, mechanical graders and combined

graders and tipping gear, and weighing and

measuring machines , for road construction or

maintenance ........

Tree

ex (b)

Street spraying (water ) machines

Free

147(1)( 1 )
(11) (111 ) (iv) 149(2)(a)

Tractors of the mechanical horse type for the haulage of detachable semi -trailers .... ad valorem Other tractors of the wheel type ...... Tractors of the crawler or track- laying type Parts of tractors .....
Duplicating and addressing machines

5 p.c. Free Free Free Free

(0) Address plate frames and duplicating metal sheets

used in conjunction with the machines provided for

in paragraph (a) ......

Free

(2)

Typewriters -

(b)

other than Braille

Free

151(a)

Weighing machines including scales and balances ,

not being laboratory instruments , milk recording

scales, or industrial appliances elsewhere provid-|

ed for; fabric meters

...... ad valorem

5 p.o.

A1056

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVIII - UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

153

Wire:

(b)

Barbed fencing

Free

154 (2)
(3)

Radio or wireless apparatus and accessories : When imported for merchant ships , or for aircraft , or by persons licensed by the PostmasterGeneral to conduct a public radio service ......

Other .....

...ad valorem

Free 15 p.0.

156(a)

Wire rope .....

............... ad valorem 5 p.0.

(b)

Split-links , shackles and thimbles , for use in

connection with wire rope, imported separately ... Free

157 (a)
(b) (c)

8P 

Asbestos-cement manufactures, namely:

Flat or corrugated sheets, slates and tiles ....

.......

...... ad valorem

or

per sq. ft

whichever duty shall be the greater

Ridging and guttering .....

..ad valorem

Other n.e.e.

..... ad valorem

25 p.. 
25 p.o. 15 p..

160

Bottles and jars (common) of glass or earthenware ,

being ordinary trade packages for the transport of

goods ; and fruit jars:

(b)

Empty, of glass , of the beer and mineral water

type8 -

(1)

of a capacity not exceeding 7 fluid ounces ....

...per gross 6d

Plus suspended duty of ..... .................per gross 28 Od

(11 )

of a capacity exceeding 7 fluid ounces but not

exceeding 14 fluid ounces ............ per gross 94

Plus suspended duty of .............................. ..per gro88 38 Od

(111 )

of a capacity exceeding 14 fluid ounces but not exceeding 28 fluid ounces ........ per gross

18 04

Plus suspended duty of

..per gro88 48 04

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1057

SCHEDULE XVIII UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

160 (Cont'd)

ex (d )

Siphons

...................ad valorem

ex (e )
162 (a ) (1 )

Capsules ( other than paper) .......... ad valorem

Cements, cement clinker and oonerete proofers :

Cement for building purposes, including hydrau-

lic lime ............. 

.per 400 lb.

5 p.8. 5 p.o.
28 6d

163

Coal and patent fuel ....

Free

166

Diamonds and other gems or precious stones, in

their rough state .......

Free

167
172 (a) (b) ( 1 )

Earthenware and stoneware , n, e.e. , including sani-

tary pans, urinals , sinks and lavatory basins ....

......

.....ad valorem

Plus a suspended duty of .............. ....... ad valorem

Glassware , chinaware and porcelainware : For laboratory use ....

Glassware n.e.e. .....

....... ad valorem

20 p... 5 p.e.
Free 5 p.co

(14 )
173 178
(a) 180 ex (b)

Chinaware and porcelainware , n.e.e. , including household crockery of earthenware .... ad valorem
Graphite or plumbago
Marble : In the rough or sawn
Mica and mica manufactures: Mica plates for electrical purposes ..ad valorem Note : There shall be no preference on this item

5 p.#o Free Free 15 p..

191

Copra .......

Free

197 (a) (b)

Oils , essential (natural and synthetic ) , including those containing fixatives :
Lemon and orange
Other ....

Free Free

@. @

A1058

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVIII - UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

199 (a)

Oils, lubricating in bulk ................ .

...... per imp . gallon 3d

(b)

not in bulk

............... ..ad valorem 15 p.c.

202 ex (2)

01ls , vegetable , animal and fish , n.e.e:

Olive oil ......

....... ad valorem

5 p.c.

203 ( 1 )

Paints and colours :

(a )(1 ) Ready mixed for use ; and enamels , poster colours ,

flat oil paints , sheep-marking oils and petrify-

ing liquids .......

........ ad valorem

25 p.c.

(11) Colour washes and distempers in paste or powder

form ......

.....ad valorem

or

per lb.

whichever duty shall be the greater



25 p.o. ld

(a)

Artists' colours

Free

205 (a )
(1) 206
(a)

Resin and turpentine :
Resin ( including artificial and synthetic resins ) , dry resinous guns and dry shellac in bulk ..............

Soap , soap powders and extracts: Toilet ...

...per 100 lb. or
ad valorem

whichever duty shall be the greater

Free 45 od 33 pP.o.

207

Tallow, animal and vegetable , including oleine

Free

...

210 (a ) ( 1 )
(11)

Waxes and greases : Beeswax ................ .
Paraffin wax in bulk ...

............... ..ad valorem

15 p.c. Free

ex (b)

Paraffin wax not in bulk

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1059

SCHEDULE XVIII · UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued)

South African
Tariff item number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

(0)

213 (1) (11 )
(a) 215 ex (1)

Acids: Citric and tartaric in bulk .................
not in bulk
Other n.e.e. ....
Ammonium perchlorate in bulk

...... ad valorem ...... ad valorem ..... ad valorem

15 p.c. 15 p.c. 15 p.c. Free

ex (2) Mono-ammonium phosphate and ammonium sulpho-

oyanide ..........

Free

216 ex (c) Penicillin

Free

217

Barium carbonate and barium peroxide , in bulk

Free

224 (a)

Drugs and medicines , n.e.e :

Such preparations as may be approved by the

Minister to be of recognized value in the pre-

vention or treatment of malaria ..............

Free

ex (d)
225
(b) (11 )
226 227 (1 )

Caffeine, theobromide , emetine and natural

menthol

...... ad valorem

Dyes and colour preparations, not being paints and

colours or toilet preparations elsewhere provided for :

Other -

not in bulk .......

....... ad valorem

Extracts for perfuming n.e. .....................................ad valorem
Fertilizers in bulk : animal, mineral or vegetable, artificial or natural ; and phosphate rock and maltassa

10 p..
10 p.. 25 p.e. Free

(2)
228 (b)
232

Bacterial cultures for seed and soil inoculation as may be approved by the Minister .....................................

Glycerine : Distilled

..ad valorem

Naphthalene in bulk

Free 25 p.o. Free

A1060

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVIII UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued )

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

ex 234 237 238
239
ex 241
244 ex (d)

Nitrates of sodium and potassium, in bulk, for manufacturing purposes or for fertilizers ......

Perchloride of iron in bulk ......

Perfumery and toilet preparations , n.e.e. , including powders, washes, pomatums , cosmetics , pastes , dyes, hair oils , but excluding tooth powders , tooth pastes and tooth washes .......... ad valorem

Pills, including gelatine capsules containing

drugs and medicinal preparations , imported in

packages not for direct sale to the public .......

....

······· per lb.

Potassium : Bicarbonate , bichromate , bisulphite, carbonate , caustic potash , chlorate , chloride, iodide , metabisulphite , permanganate , red and yellow prussiate of , silicate , sulphite , sulphocyanide ( thio-cyanate ) , and xanthate including amyl, butyl and ethyl xanthate , in bulk

Sodium: Nitrate not in bulk .....

Free Free 35 p.c. 158 od
Free Free

246 ( 1)

Substances for the prevention or destruction of

weeds , agricultural pests , including sheep and

cattle dips and dipping powders and materials

suitable only for dip ; substances for the pre-

vention or cure of diseases in plants or trees;

arsenic , arsenic pentoxide , carbon bisulphide ,

copper arsenate , copper sulphate , copper tar-

trate , lead arsenate , sodium arsenate , sodium

arsenite and zinc sulphate

Free

  

(2)

Substances for the prevention of wood rot , and

substances for the preservation of wood , n.e.e. ,

but excluding oils and stains ......

Free

(4)

Ethylene gas for the treatment of fruit , under

such conditions as the Minister may impose

Free

(5)

Tetrachlorethylene , ethylene dichloride , chlorin-

ated diphenyl, and carbon tetrachloride ......

Free

(6)

Insect powders and substances for destroying pests,

n.e.e. ......

..... ad valorem 15 p.o.

(7)

Substances for the extermination of rodents ...... Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1061

SCHEDULE XVIII - UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

247

Sulphur in bulk

Free

251

Boots and shoes :

(a)

Infants' and surgical 1

ex (1 )

infants' , sizes 0 to 2

Free

(11 )

infants ' , sizes 3 to 6 ..................................ad valorem 12 p.c.

(b) (1)

Men's , women's and children's , not being slip-

pers , ballet dancing shoes , goloshes , rubber

boots, rubber bathing shoes and sendals , spiked

running shoes , boots and shoes with rope or

wooden soles , wooden footwear, or cotton-mesh

and Canvas shoes of the tennis or gymnasium

type , the soles of which , excluding socking, are wholly of rubber -

children's , sizes 7 to 1

..... ad valorem

or

per pair

whichever duty shall be the greater

30 p.. 18 Od

( 11 )

men's and youths ' , women's and maids ' , sizes 2

and upwards .....

....ad valorem 30 p.c.

or

per pair 39 64

whichever duty shall be the greater

(a)
954 (1)

All other, of any material , including goloshes ..

...

....... ad valorem

Leathers : Patent

30 p.c. Free

(2) 258 ( 1 )
265 (a) (6)

Genuine reptile , fish, frog, toad , bird , seal, kangaroo , antelope , deer, pig, and hog leathers.
Rubber, unmanufactured , including latex , first latex orepe , crude , waste , masticated and reclaimed rubber, synthetic rubber and gutta percha .....
Cane, bambob , rattans and osiers : Unmanufactured , including rattan-core (whole or split) and split cane unmanufactured ...............................
Manufactures of, not being furniture ad valorem

Free Free Free 20 p.o.

t

A1062

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVIII UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I · (Continued)

South African Tariff item
mumbe r

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

272 (b)
273 (b)

Joinery :

Wooden frameworks of houses , including sills ,

sashes , lintels , staircases, casements , wooden

shutters and mouldings

.ad valorem

Plywood : Other ( excluding alder and birch not exceeding 4 mm. in thickness ) ............. per cubic foot or ad valorem whichever duty shall be the greater

25 p.s.
38 04 25 p.6.

276

Sleepers , railway or tramway, wooden ... ad valorem 3 p.c.

279
(a) (1)

Wood : Unmanufactured softwood (coniferous ) ....... per 100 cubic feet

48 64

(11 )

other, except veneer board ....................ad valorem 3 p.0.

280(b)

Wood cellulose for packing fresh fruit , in rolls

or in sheets ........

.....

Free

282 (a)

Bags, paper, including transparent cellulose bags :

Printed

...ad valorem 30 p.c.

(0)
291 (1) (a)

Not printed
Inks and ink powders : Printing, ruling and lithographic

.per lb. 114 Free

(b)

Duplicating machine inks

,,ad valorem 10 p.c.

295 (a)

Paper : Blotting, carbon and wall ......

.ad valorem 10 p.6.

ex (b)

Graphitized , lithographic transfer, oiled , waxed, transparent cellulose , lined bottle tissue , plain tissue and greaseproof ( plain or
corrugated ) , and cover paper for use in the process of manufacturing boots and shoes ....... Free

 30

(a)

Plain or composite , n.e.e.-

(11)

cigarette paper in the original mill reels or

rolls

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1063

SCHEDULE XVII UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I · (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

295 (Cont'd)|

ex (e)

Sensitized and tracing

..ad valorem

ex (e)

Sanitary ..............

....ad valorem

296 (a)

Printed, ruled , lithographed and embossed matter

(not being metal and excluding embossed paper

serviettes , d'oyleys and vader mats ) :

Picture postcards ; Christmas , birthday ,

pictorial , New Year and other cards ; calendars,

calendar pads , calendar mounts , n.e.e. , and

almanacs ; box-coverings and pictures intended

to form part of imported printed , lithographed

or embossed matter .....

......................ad valorem

7p.c. 15 p.c.
30 p.o.

(a)

Directories , guide books , year books and hand-

books , relating to the Union ; Union Christmas

annuals ; holiday and special numbers or editions

of Union newspapers, magazines or periodicals or

parts thereof; supplements to Union publications

albums designed or intended for disposal as

advertising matter ... .........

....ad valorem

or

per lb.

whichever duty shall be the greater

30 p.c. 6d

(0)

Account books , exercise books and copy books ;

stationery and forms in books , pads or loose ;

diaries n.e.e .; delivery , manifold, and index

books ; bank cheques , drafts, promissory notes , bills of exchange and similar forms ; receipt

forms ; reminder slips ; scrip, share certificates

and company reports ; membership certificates for

lodges , unions and like institutions ; letter

headings and form letters ; invoices and account

forms

...ad valorem

30 p.o.

or

per lb. 6d

whichever duty shall be the greater

(1)

Labels, tickets n.e.e. , and address tags , flat

or in rolls ........

....... ad valorem 30 p.c.

or

per lb. 64

whichever duty shall be the greater

A1064

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVIII UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued )

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

296 (Cont'd) (g) ( 1 )

Catalogues and price lists of Union firms and firms holding stocks in the Union , printed and posted abroad to individuals in the Union ......
..ad valorem Or
per lb.
whichever duty shall be the greater

30 p.c. 6d

(h) (1)

All advertising samples ( not being any article

liable to a rated duty and not being an article

of food liable to a duty other than a rated

duty) issued gratis or intended for distribution

gratis as advertising matter

.ad valorem

Or

per lb.

whichever duty shall be the greater

30 p.c. 6d

(111 )

All other advertising matter, including advertising invoice forms and similar stationery usually issued gratis or at nominal prices .....
............... ..ad valorem or per lb.
whichever duty shall be the greater

30 p.c. 6d

58

299 (a)
299
300 (a) (b)



Stationery n ... :
Loose-leaf covers and binders ; letter or document files in book or folder form ......... ad valorem

Beads

..... per lb. 
ad valorem whichever duty shall be the greater

Clocks and watches : Complete, n.e.e.

..ad valorem

Cases and set-up mechanism or movements .......

......

............... ..ad valorem

30 p.c. 4d 15 p.c.
10 p.c. 10 p.c.

(c )

Other parts .....

.... ad valorem 10 p.c.

@@

(a)

Tower clocks and parts therefor for churches and

public buildings ; pigeon flying time recording

clocks .....

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1065

SCHEDULE XVIII - UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

302 ( 1 ) 303

Ladies' handbags ......

................ad valorem

Gramophones, phonographs , and needles and records

therefor ...

...... ad valorem

25 p.o. 10 p.c.

304

Jewellery , including imitation jewellery and

rolled gold , enamel or gilt jewellery ; precious

stones and pearls and imitations thereof, cut or

polished , and whether mounted or unmounted ; com-

pleted portions or parts of any article of jewel-

lery, imitation or otherwise ; ornamental hat pins ,

ornamental hair pins and ornamental buckles ;

bangles, necklaces , girdles , muff chains , clasps , and similar articles of adornment ...... ad valorem

25 p.c.

305

Musical instruments .e.e . ...................................ad valorem 10 p.c.

307 ex (1) Tennis racquets and frames, cricket bats, hockey

sticks and golf clubs .....

.... ad valorem

15 p.o.

ex (2)

Sporting and athletic goods , that is, articles

n.e.e. used for outdoor games excluding golf

balls; and fishing appliances (not being for

industrial purposes) ......

...... ad valorem

10 p.c.

ex 308

Tobacconists ' wares, including pipes , pouches, pipe covers , pipe stands , pipe cases , smokers' cabinets , cigar and cigarette holders , match boxes , tobacco jars , cigar and cigarette cases , ash trays, cigar and cigarette lighters excluding out cigarette papers in boxes ...... ad valorem

20 p.c.

ex 308
310 (b) (1)

Cigarette papers in boxes , cut ....... ad valorem
Ammunition and explosives: Cartridges for humane animal killers .....

15 p.c. Free

(a)

Fireworks of all descriptions .................ad valorem 10 p.c.

315 ex (a) Cinematograph sound apparatus .......... ad valorem 5 p.0.

324 ex (a) Plates and films , sensitized , unexposed ......... ...... ad valorem

10 p.o.

(b) Telescopes, binoculars and fieldglasses , n, e.e . ,

and opera glasses

..ad valorem

10 p.o.

A1066

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVIII - UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART I - (Concluded)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

329 ex (1) Films for radiography

330(c)

Ships ' and boats ' compasses , recording logs and anchors .......

ex 335

Vanilla beans

Rate of Duty Tree Free Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1067

SCHEDULE XVII · UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA

PART II . Preferential Tariff

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

8 (a)
13(a) 19
(e) ex (1 ) 26

Cheese :
Containing not less than 45 per cent milk fat in its water- free substance and being free from foreign fat ........... ......................................... , per lb.
with a rebate therefrom of ... per lb, on such classes as are not produced in the Union as the Minister may prescribe
or ad valorem whichever duty shall be the greater

Coffee : Raw

Fish : Other tinned sardines in oil

per lb.

Hops in bulk

22

54d 24
25 p.o.
Free
12d Free

30 (b)

Meats , soups (not concentrated ) , and similar sub-
stances used as food , but excluding extracts and essences :
Meats , fresh , frozen, salted or cured, but excluding chipped or sliced dried beef packed in containers of less than 1 lb...... ...per lb. 3d

48(b) 71 76

Stout, exceeding 3 per cent of proof spirit ..... .......per imp. gallon
Laces , lace curtaining , lace flouncing and lace embroidery, in the piece or in the form of insertions or medallions ......................................... ad valorem
Piece goods , not being canvas , blanketing or kaffir sheeting:

4s Od 5 p.c.

75

Note : In the case of piece goods exceeding 30
inches in width, "yard" shall mean 36 inches by 30 inches in width, and the free-on-board price and the duty at per yard shall be calculated proportionately to the width.

A1068

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XVIII - UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA Part II - (Continued)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

76 (Cont'd) (c) (1)

Other woven fabrics in the piece .e.e.-

containing 50 per cent or more by weight

of rayon ......

....................ad valorem

86(b) (a)

Motor cycles and sidecars , and parts and

accessories ; but excluding electric lamp bulbs ,

batteries , tyres and tubes and parts specially

provided for in this item, when imported

separately

..... ad valorem

Sparkling plugs for motor cycles

..... each

(f)

Driving chains for motor cycles

..per foot

111(2)

Wire gauze, mosquito and fly ......

118 (8)

Machinery, apparatus , appliances and implements, n.e.e. , but excluding material , domestic machines , and vehicles:
Other, for manufacturing and industrial purposes; air compressors ; serrated saw banding ; concrete mixers; machinery for power laundries ; leather measuring machines for use in boot factories and tanneries; workshop machinery and appliances ordinarily used in a motor garage for manufacturing , testing and repair work; but excluding structural steelwork for
staging and platforms. ...................

5 p.c. 15 p.o. 2nd Free
Free

Note : 011 , petrol and tyre pumps , washing outfits, grease guns, and other appliances ordinarily used for service in a motor service station do not fall under the head-
ing of "warkshop machinery and appliances" .

134 ( 1)

Pipes, piping, tubes, and fittings , of metal :

gas, steam, drainage , sewerage , irrigation, water

supply and water pumping ; excluding grids , man-

hole covers and fittings , and surface boxes: (a)(11 ) Down-piping and guttering, other than of cast-
iron, and fittings therefor ; fittings for cast-

iron down-piping and guttering ; riveted wrought

iron or steel pipes and tubes ; brass bends and

Junctions for sanitary and waste-water pipes ... ....... ad valorem

15 p.c.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1069

SCHEDULE XVIII · UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA PART II · (Concluded)

South African Tariff item
number

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

146 ex (a)

Tools not being agricultural implements or machine tools:

Mechanics' , being tools ordinarily used by

mechanics or artizans

Free

147(1) ( 1 ) 806
(a)
(a) (1) (11)

Tractors of the mechanical horse type for the haulage of detachable semi -trailers ...

Soap, soap powders and extracts: Toilet

..per 100 lb.
Or ad valorem

whichever duty shall be the greater

Wood: Unmanufactured softwood (coniferous ) ....

other, except venger board ..................

Tree 48 94 25 p.0.
free Free

324(b)

Telescopes, binoculars and fieldglasses , n.s.e. ,

and opera glasses .......

Free

95347 O 49 - pt. 5- -68

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A1071

SCHEDULE

UNITED KINGDOM

This Sohedule is authentic only in the English language

Section A Metropolitan Territory

PART I

Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

1. Where any article listed in Division 1 of this Part of this Schedule is liable in whole or in part on the date of this Agreement to the duties on cocoa, hydrocarbon oil , silk, artificial silk , spirits or sugar set forth in Part 6 of " Customs and Excise Tariff of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in operation on the 1st January, 1947", published under the authority of the Commissioners of His Majesty's Customs and Exciso , it shall, unless expressly excopted in this Schedulo , continue to be subject to such duties at rates now in force, or as subsequently changed by the law,
t2.hisWhSechreeduhloew. ever, any article listed in Division 1 of this Part of

(a) being an article of apparel , other than stockings and socks , is made wholly or partly of silk or artificial silk; or

(b) consists wholly or partly of lace or lace net of any kind, or consists wholly or partly of material by whatever process or stitch made which in appearance or pattern resembles lace or lace net; or has at any stage of manufacture been subjected,
as to the whole or a part thereof, to a process of embroidery by hand or machine needlework or to a process producing a similar effect; or has at any stage of manufacture been
subjected, as to the whole or a part thereof, to a process
of stiletto work, borer work, out work or draw thread work, or to a process producing a similar effcot; or

(c) being an article of apparel , is made wholly or partly of feathers ,

then, except as provided by paragraph 3 , paragraph 1 shall not apply, but unless there is express provision to the contrary in this Schedule such
article may be charged either at the appropriate rate of duty sot out in Division 1 or at a rate not higher than the appropriate rate, or the highest appropriate rate , set out in Division 2.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 , paragraph 1 shall apply in the caso of any article , other than tissue or apparel , which is made wholly of silk or artificial silk , or in respect of which the value of the silk or artificial silk component or the aggregate of the values of all such components , as the case may be, exceeds 20% of the aggregate of the values of all the components of the article.
4. The rates of duty set out in Division 2 shall not operate as maximum rates in respect of any articles which are not listed or provided for in Division 1.

A1072

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A, Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

3 I(1 )(ii)

Oatmeal (including all cuts of oatmeal , oat groats, oat flour, and feeding oatmeal or ground oats; but not including oat husks , oat dust or oat husk meal); rolled oats and flaked oats

3 Exemptions Wheat in grain

3 G.A. V.

Barley in grain

4-

Rice in the husk

4

Rice, husked, including cargo rice and cleaned

rice whole, but not including broken rice

3 Exemptions Cassava (or tapioca) in any of the following
forms, namely, root , flour and starch but not including the foodstuff known as tapioos

3 G.A.V. 3 G.A. V.

Tapioca, cassava or mandioca , foodstuff Sago meal, sage flour and pearled sage

Fruit, fresh or raw, the following: -

4
3 G.A. V.
4Ex3 I(2)(i ) Ex3 1 (2)(ii) 3 1 (2)(iv)
3 G.A. V. 3 G.A. V. 43 G.A.V. 3 G.A. V. 4-
3 G.A.V.

Apples from 16th August to 15th April from 16th April to 15th August
Apples consigned direct to cider factories registered by His Majesty's Commissioners of Customs and Exaise
Bananas
Cherries from 1st May to 31st May Currants from 1st May to 15th June
Grapes (hothouse) from 1st February to 30th June from 1st July to 31st January
Grapes (other than hothouse) from 1st July to 31st January
Lemons
Oranges from 1st April to 30th Noverber from 1st December to 31st March
Peaches and nectarines (other than hothouBC) from 1st April to 30th November
Poars
from 1st August to 31st January from 1st February to 31st July Pineapples

gã

Rate of Duty
58. per out. Free 10% 68. per cut, 68. per out.
Free 2%
Free 48.6d. por cut, 10% 28. 6d. per cwt.
3d. per lb. 20% 10% 38. 6d. per cwt. 10% 10% 38. per out. 48.6d. per owt. 10%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A1073

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM Seation A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 ( continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Fruit , fresh or raw, the following (continued) : -

3 I (2) (vii) Ex3 I (2) (viii)

Raspberries and loganberries from 1st July to 31st August
Strawberries
from 1st April to 15th June from 16th June to 31st July

10%
10% 41d. per lb.

Vegetables , fresh or raw, the following: -

Ex3 I (3) (1)
Ex3 1 (3) (ii ) Ex3 I ( 3) (vi) Ex3 I (3) (vii) Ex3 I (3) (vii) Ex3 I (3) (viii)
3 I(3) (ix)

Asparagus from 1st January to 15th April from 16th April to 30th June
Broccoli and cauliflowers
from 1st November to 15th February Green peas (unshelled)
from 1st January to 31st May Lettuce and endive
from 1st November to last day of February Chicory (salad)
from 1st November to 31st March Mushrooms
from 1st May to 30th September from 1st October to 30th April Potatoes: -
(a) New:from 1st September to 15th May from 16th May to 31st July from 1st August to 31st August
Other descriptions : from 1st September to 30th April from 1st May to 31st August

Fruit , dried, without sugar: -

10% 8d. per lb.
6s, per owt. 10%
10s. per owt.
8s. per ort. 10% 20%
1a, per owt. 98.40. per owt. 2s, per cwt.
1s. per cwt. 2s. per owt.

46

156

Prunes

78. per cwt.

NOTE: The products provided for under the above sub-item shall be exempt from
ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products

4646

Raisins

8s. 6d. per cwt.



Apricots

8s. per cwt.

The Government of the United Kingdom shall be free to maintain until the

1st September, 1948, the rates in force at the date of this Agreement .

A1074

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Fruit , dried, without sugar (continued) : -
Ex3 1(4) (1) (a) (2) Pineapples 3 G.A.V.

Ex3 I(4) (i) (a) ( 2) 3 G.A.V.
3 G.A.V.

Bananas Dates

3 I (4) (1) (b) (1 ) Apples, pears, peaches and nectarines

Fruit of the following descriptions , preserved by chemicals or artificial heat (other than fruit preserved in sugar) : -

Ex3 I(4) (1)

Fruit pulp

3 I(4) (i) (b) (2)

Apples, other than dried apples

4444444444

3 I(4) (i) (c) 3 I(4) (i) (a)

Strawberries, raspberries ( including loganberries) and blackcurrants
Redourrants

3 I(4) (i) ( c)

Gooseberries

Fruit of the following descriptions, preserved in syrup:-

Apples Apricots Bananas
Cashews Guavas
Loganberries Oranges Peaches
Pineapples Pears

Rate of Duty
5%
10%
10% Free
15% 3s. 6d. per cwt. or 25%, whichever is the less
15% 15% 15%
2s. 3d. per owt. 12% 15% 15% 15% 45. per cwt. 15% 12% 5s. per owt. 12%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1075

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

4--

Fruit Salad , viz : - Mixtures of fruit

preserved in syrup (but not including

mixed fruit pulp) containing not less

than four separate descriptions of fruit, in which each of at least four

descriptions constitutes at least 8% ,

and no one description represents

more than 50% , by weight , of all the

fruit in the mixture (excluding syrup)

(a) where not less than 80% by weight of all the fruit in the mixture
(excluding syrup) consists of all or any of the following fruits , viz: -

Peaches Nectarines Pears
Apricots Cherries

(b) other

3 I(4 ) (ii ) (a) ( 2) Cherries , stoned , preserved in sugar or syrup, with or without added flavouring matter

Fruit of the following descriptions ,
drained or glacé , and crystallized or Metz : -

·3 I(4) ( ii ) (a) (1 ) 3 G.. V. 3 G.. V. 3 G.A.V. 3 G.A. V. 3 G.A.V.

Cherries Bananas Cashows Guavas
Oranges Pineapples

Rate of Duty
Free 58.6d. per owt. 10% 10% 10%

A1076

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Ex3 1 (4) (1) Fruit, (other than fresh fruit) preserved by artificial cold, imported in a container when the gross weight (including the weight of the container) exceeds 1 cwt.
Fruit pulp Strawberries, raspberries (including)
loganberries) and blackcurrants Redcurrants Gooseberries

3 Exemptions Preserved grapefruit and grapefruit juice
3 Exemptions Preserved orange juice , whether containing the detached cells of the fruit or not

3 Exemptions Preserved orange pulp, except such pulp containing the peel

Fruit Juices of the following descriptions, ineluding such juices concentrated or preserved or flavoured: -

3 G.A.V. 3 G.A.V.

Prune juice Pineapple juice

3 I(4)(iv) Olives in brine , imported in a container when the gross weight (including the weight of the container) does not exceed 1 out.

3 I (4 )(v) Confectionery containing sugar or cocoa 3 G.A.V. Biscuits for human consumption

3 G.A.V.

Ice cream mix powder consisting of a mixture of milk solids, and added sweetening matter, with a stabilizer , and with or without added colouring or flavouring materials

G.A.V. Citrus fruit pectin in powder form

3 1(5)

protin, other than citrus pectin

in powder form

Rate of Duty
15% Free Free Free
10% 10% 15% 10% 10%
10% 10% 25%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1077

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 1(6) Brazil nuts , shelled

10%

NOTE: If at any time unshelled Brazil nuts

exported from Brazil to the United Kingdom are charged with export duties or other taxes which are not offset by corresponding axport duties or taxes on shelled Brazil nuts exported from Brazil , then the Government of the United Kingdom shall be
free to impose on shelled Brazil nuts, in addition to the 10% provided for in this item , a duty equivalent to the amount by which the aforesaid export duties or taxes
on unshelled Brazil nuts exported from Brazil exceed the duties or taxes charged on unshelled Brazil nuts supplied to the domestic shelling industry.

3 G.A.V.

Brazil nuts, unshelled

5%

3 G.A.V.

Walnuts in shell

10%

3 G.A.V.

Pecan nuts, shelled or unshelled

10%

3 G.A.V.

Groundnuts

10%

3 G.A.V.

Cooonuta

Free

3 G.A.V.

Apricot stones

10%

3 G.A.V.

Nutmegs

10%

3 I(7) (1) Split peas

15%

3 G.A.V.

Lentils

10%

Vegetables preserved in airtight containers, but not including vegetables and pickles preserved in vinegar, the following: -

3 G.A.V. Ex3 I(7) (11)
3 G.A.V. Ex3 I (7) (11) Ex3 I(7)( 11)

Asparagus

10%

Beans, with or without flavouring, but

not including beans in pod

10%

Maize, including maise on oob (sweet corn)

Peas

10%

Other, except tomatoes

A1078

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Vegetables, preserved (other than vegetables preserved in airtight containers ) the following: -

3 G.A.V.

Gherkins in brine or vinegar

10%

3 G.A.V.

Onions in brine or vinegar

10%

3 G.A.V. Dill, preserved in airtight containers

10%

3 G.A.V. Dried beans

10%

3 G.A.V. Tomatoe juice , preserved in airtight

containers

10%

3 G.A.V. Peppercorns, the fruit of piper, nigrun, unground 48.6d. per ort.

3 I(9) Soya bean cake and soya bean meal

15%

3 I (10)(1) Soya bean oil

15%

3 G.A.V. Soya beans

57

3 G.A.V. Oleo margarine and oleo oil

107

3 G.A.V. Olive oil

10%

3 G.A.V. Soups not including extracts or essences of

meat, preserved in airtight containers

10%

3 G.A.V. 3 G.A.V. 4-

Maté, in the form of prepared leaf Malt Honey

5%
10%
38.6d. per cwt. or 10% whiob ever is the greater, but not more than 58. per owt .

3 GA

Aniseed

10

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1079

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

6-

Wine :-

Exceeding 27 degrees and not exceeding 42 degrees proof spirit

NOTE: The products provided for under the above item shall be
exempt from ordinary most-favourednation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 10s. per gallon

6-

Sparkling wine

NOTE : The ordinary most-favourednation customs surcharge on sparkling wine or on wine rendered sparkling in band shall not exceed 12s. 6d. per gallon and shall not exceed the preferential surcharge

6-

Still wine in bottle

NOTE : The ordinary most-favourednation customs surcharge an still wine in bottle shall not exceed
2s . 6d. per gallon and shall not exceed the preferential surcharge by more than 1s . per gallon

The Government of the United Kingdom shall be free to maintain until the 1st September . 1948, the rates in force at the date of this Agreement.

Rate of Duty

A1080

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

6

Tobacoo

NOTE : (1 ) If at any future time the rate
of ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duty chargeable upon tobacco, unmanufactured, unstripped, containing 10 lb. or more of moisture in every 100 lb. weight thereof, does not exoeed £2.5s.2d . per lb. , such tobacco shall thereafter be exempt from
ordinary most-favqured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties there on by more than 1s.3d . per lb.

(2 ) If at any future time the said most-favoured-nation rate chargeable on such tobacco does not exceed £1.15s . 6d . per lb. , such tobacco shall thereafter be exempt
from ordinary most-faboured-nation customs duties which exceed the
preferential duties there on by more than 1s. per lb.

Trees and shrubs , other than in flower: -

3 G.A.V. Ex3 II (1 ) (ii ) Ex3 II (1 ) (ii Ex3 II ( 1 ) ( 11 Ex3 II( 1 )(ii )

Azalea indioa Cocos weddollinsa Kentia belmore ana (Howea belmoreana) Kentia forsteriana (Howea forsteriana) Phoenix canariensis

Ex3 II ( 1 ) (v) Fruit stooks of halling varieties

3 G.A.V.

Seeds, agricultural and horticultural , other than grain, beans and peas

Ex3 III ( 1 ) (ii ) | Poultry and meat pastes of a value exceeding 10s . per lb.

Ex3 III ( 1 ) ( ii ) Poultry liver (except raw liver) whether mixed or not

3 G.A.V.

Rabbits, dead, fresh

Rate of Duty
10% 10% 10% 10% 10% 5% 10% 20% 20% 5%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1081

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

4

Condensed milk, whole , sweetened

4-

Condensed milk, whole , not sweetened

4-

Milk powder and other preserved milk, not

Sweetened, (excluding condensed milk and

condensed skimmed milk)

3 III(3)(1)

Oysters (except oysters in shell from from 1st March to 31st May):Oysters in shell of the variety ostrea virginioa, and oysters preserved in airtight containers Other oysters

3 G.A.V.

Oysters in shell of the variety ostrea virginica from 1st March to 31st May

3 III (3 ) (11) Fresh shell fish (other than oysters and prawns)

3 G.A.V.

Lobster preserved in airtight containers

Canned pilchards (other than the canned fish commonly known as " sardines"):-

3 III (3) (iv) 3 G.A.V.

(1) of a value not exceeding £3.158.0ª. per owt .
(11) of a value exceeding £3.158.0d. per owt .

3 G.A.V.

Prawns and shrimps preserved in airtight containers

3 G.A.V.

Salmon preserved in airtight containers Chilled or frozen salmon

Rate of Duty 56. per cwt . 68. per ort.
66. per ort.
152 30% 10% 30% 10%
78.6d. per cwt. 10% 10% 5% Free

A1082

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

3 G.A.V.

Fish and marine animal oil, unrefined, other than whale oil and ood liver oil

3 G.A.V.

Crushed sea shells, mainly of calcium carbonate

3 G.A.V.

Shells (other than nother of pearl, trochus and other hard shells , including fresh water shells, possessing the characteristic nacre
of pearl shell ) , not in any way prepared or worked

3 Exemptions Pigs' heads , pigs ' feet and pigs ' offals, edible, not preserved in airtight containers

3 G.A.V.

Pigs' tongues, preserved in airtight containers

3 G.A.V.

NOTE : The products provided for under the above it shall be cxempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products
Canned ground or chopped neat consisting wholly of pork (including ham and bacon) with or without curing or seasoning ingredients
NOTE: The products provided for under the above item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 57 ad valorem

3 Exemptions Pork, salted or pickled , other than bacon and ham , not preserved in airtight containers

Rate of Duty 10% 10% 10% Free 10%
107
Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1083

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 ( continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

3 Exemptions Hams, not preserved in airtight containers
NOTE : The quantity of hams permitted to
be imported from all sources free of duty shall be not less than 775,000 cwts. a year. In respect of hams not permitted to be imported free of duty the United Kingdom Government shall be free to charge duty at a most-favourednation rate not exceeding 5d. per lb. , provided that the most-favoured-nation rate shall not exceed the proferential rato

3 Exemptions Lard

3 G.A.V.

Sausage casings, hog, natural, of a value exceeding £10 per cwt .

3 IV( 1 ) ( 1 ) ( a) ( 1 )

Pottery and other shaped and fired clay products, the following : Glazed wall and glazed hearth tiles flat, rectangular, not figured or embossed, all white

Glass and glassware, the following:-

3 IV(2)(vi)

Unworked pressed or moulded lenses and prisms, and pressed or moulded blanks of unworked or worked lenses and
prisms , other than lenses and prisms and lens and prism blanks which are liable on the date of this Agreement to duty under the Safeguarding of Industries Act , 1921 , or which are accessories or component parts of cycles or motor vehicles

Rate of Duty Free
Free Free 28.3d. per square yard
20%

A1084

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM

Section A

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Glass and glassware , the following (continued) : -
3 IV( 2) (vii) Illuminating glassware and lighting panels, but not including: -

41d. per lb. or 15 , whichever is the greater

(1) Accessories and component parts of cycles or motor vehicles

(ii) Articles liable on the date of this Agreement to duty under the
Safeguarding of Industries hot , 1921

(iii) Lenses and prisms and blanks therefor

(iv) Bulbs for electric filament lamps (v) Miners' lamp glasses

(vi) Oil lamp chimneys of which the top orifice is not larger than the bottom orifice and the height is not less than twice the maximum diameter

3 IV(2) (viii) (a) Bottles , jars and tubular containers, whether corked, capped or not , but not including :- 257
(1) Laboratory or scientific glassware

(ii) Lamp-blown ware

(111) Syphon vasos

3 IV( 2) (vii )(b) Syphon vases , other than laboratory glassware

and lamp-blown ware

20/

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1085

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Ratio of Duty

Glass and glassware , the following (continued) :-

3 IV(2) (ix) Stemmed glass drinking vessels, other

than lamp-blown ware

20%

3 IV(2)(xi) (a) Glassware of a kind commonly used for

domestic purposes, whether finished or

mounted or not, including blanks

therefor, but not including:-

30%

(1) Articles of the following descriptions made wholly or partly of plate or sheet glass (clear, opal or coloured), bevelled, sand blasted, silvered or metallised, backed with other materials, drilled, painted or otherwise finished: -

Glass mirrors, unframed, framed or backed; shelves; finger plates; table tops; and advertisement tablets

(ii) Bottles, jars and tubular containers

(111) Illuminating glassware and lighting panels
(iv) Lamp-blown ware (v) Rod and tubing (vi) Stationery glassware

(vii) Stemmed glase drinking vessels

(viii ) Stoppers and covers for bottles and jars whether ground or not
(ix ) Syphon vases

(x) Vacuum flasks , vacuum jars and similar vacuum vessels whether fitted or not

95347 0-49-pt. 5- -69

A1086

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 ( continued)

Tariff Iten No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Glass and glassware , the following (continued):-

3 G.A.V.

Miners' lamp glasses

10%

3 G.A. V.

Oil lamp chimneys of which the top orifice is not larger than the bottom orifice and

the height is not less than twice the

maximum diameter

10%

3 IV(3) Goods manufactured wholly or partly of asbostos , the following:-

Shoots, plates and tiles

15%

3 IV(4) (1) Granite setts and curbs

10%

3 IV(6) Roofing slates

10%

3 G.A.V.

Slate in rectangular blocks , raw, ground or

polished, but not further manufactured and

not less than inch in thickness

5%

**

3 V(2)(1) Pig iron other than: -

25%

(a) pig iron snelted wholly with charcoal;

(b) vanadium-titanium pig iron produced in an electric furnace ;

(c) pig iron produced in an electric furnace and containing more than 0.1% by weight of cobalt but not more than 0.025% by weight of phosphorus and not more than 0.02% by weight of sulphur; and

(a) pig iron produced in an electric furnace and containing not more than 0.025% by weight of phosphorus , not more than 0.02% by weight of sulphur and not more than 2.5% by weight of total carbon

Ex V(5) (vii) Chain of iron or steel , other than the

and

following: -

20%

3 G.A. V.

Jack chain, including mattress chain

Chain manufactured of wire

Accessories and component parts of eyeoles or motor vehicles

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1087

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 ( continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 V(5) (xv) Iron and steel jack chain ( including mattress chain) and mattress hooks

Ex3 V(5) (xviii) Paper clips made wholly of wire of a value exceeding 42d. per lb.

Ex3 V(5) (xix) Fish hooks

3 Exemptions Ferro-manganese , refined, containing less than 3% carbon

3 VI ( 1 ) ( i) (a) Furniture made wholly or mainly of metal , the following: -

Tables Stands, desks and counters
Chairs (other than pedestal chairs with reclining movement) , stools and seats
Bookcases and bookshelves Cash and deed boxes
Drawers and cupboards Shelving Storage bins and storage racks Office letter racks and letter trays Lockers

3 VI ( 1 ) ( ii ) (a) Safes and cabinets ( including filing cabinets) made wholly or mainly of metal

Ex3 VI (2) ( ii) | Domestic heating or cooking stoves and ranges burning liquid fuel

3 VI (6) (1) (a) Wrought enamelled baths of iron or steel , of a description commonly used for damestio purposes

3 VI(6) (iv)

Barrels and drums made wholly or mainly of iron or steel , of a description commonly used for the conveyance or storage of goods, of a capacity of one gallon and upwards, whether with flat or tapered top and whether with removable lid or otherwise

£12 per ton or 25% , whichever is the greater 1d. per lb. or 20%, whichever is the greater 25% Free 15%
15% 20%
26% 1d. per lb. or 26%, whichever is the greater

A1088

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Articles manufactured wholly of aluminium or of alloys containing more than 50 by weight of aluminium , the following:-

3 VII(4)

Sheets , strip , plates , discs and circles ,

if plain and exceeding .006 of an inch

in thickness and not plated , coated ,

drilled or punched; bars (other than

notch bars) , rods , wire , tubes , angles,

shapes and sections , not plated , coated ,

drilled or punched

15%

Articles manufactured wholly of copper or of
alloys containing more than 50% by weight of copper , the following : -

3 VII(5) (i) 3 VII(5) (11)

Sheets , strip , plates , discs and circles ,

if plain and exceeding .006 of an inch in

thickness and not plated , coated , drilled

or punched

15%

Tubes of all sections

20%

3 G.A.V. 3 G..V.

Antimony regulus metal , unwrought , in cubes ,

blocks , ingots , bars and rods

10%

Cadmium metal , unwrought , in blocks , ingots , bars and slabs , but not including cadmium mass 10%

3 G.A.V.

Copper wire , of one or more strands , bare , not

plated or coated

10%

3 G.A.V.

Selenium metal in the form of powder , sticks and

oakes , but not including alloys of selenium

10%

3 Exemptions Cobalt metal in the form of rondels , pellets ,

squares, fines , grains or powder , but not

including alloys of cobalt

Free

3 Exemptions Tin, unwrought , in blocks , ingots , bars and

slabs , but not including alloys of tin

Free

3 Exemptions Metallic ores , concentrates and residues , the

following :-

Free

Tungsten ores Ores of columbium and tantalum

Manufactured products of metallic tungsten, the following: -

5-

Tungsten wire

331%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1089

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM

Section A

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex3 VIII ( 2) and various

Dental instruments and appliances , the following :- 20
Amalgam instruments Brushes, bristle , mounted on mandrel Burnishers Burs Carvers Elevators Engines , electric , dental Excavators Files
Forceps Gags, mouth Mirrors , mouth, not optically worked Plastic filling instruments Pluggers Probes and explorers Pyorrhoea instruments
Scalers and prophylactic instruments Spittoons Spotlights , electric , complete with attachment
for fitting to pedestals or units; other than focussing spotlights
Stoppers Trimmers

3 various Medical and surgical appliances (other than

articles manufactured wholly or mainly of

wire), the following:-

15%

Arch supporters for feet Artificial limbs
Crutches
Fracture appliances in the form of splints and similer supports
Trusses

Ex3 VIII (4 ) and Tools and parts of tools , ( excluding surgical , Ex3 X(1 ) dental , veterinary and dissecting instruments) and machine tool parts and accessories , the following :-

(i) Drills (including twist drills ,

bitstock drills , straight flute drills,

hollow and combination centre drills),

reamers and countersinks

15

A1090

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Ex3 VIII (4) and Ex3 X(1 )

Tools and parts of tools, (excluding surgical, dental, veterinary and dissecting instruments) and machine tool
parts and accessories, the following (continued) : -

(ii) Braces, not including breast drills and hand drills

(iii ) (a) Saws (other than diamond saws, abrasive saws and power-driven saws) of a value of 38.9d. or more each

(b) Circular saws for metal cutting (other than diamond saws, abrasive saws and circular saws fitted with toothed
segments of metal)

(o) Hacksaw blades, bandsaw blades, Jigsaw blades, fretsaw blades

(iv) Files and rasps of which the serrated part exceeds six inches in length, and machine files, band or rotary, but not including nail files

(v) Wrenches and spanners, (excluding tap wrenches, chain pipe wrenches and adjustable pipe wrenches having one fixed jaw, one movable jaw and one or more springs) , but including other pipe wronohes

(vi) Vices of all kinds
(vii) Threading dies and taps ; stooks (including scrow plates) and tap wrenches

(viii) Pipe cutters

Rate of Duty
15% 9d. each or 15%, whichever is the greater
15% 15%
15%
15 157 15/ 15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30 , 1947

A1091

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Ex3 VIII (4) and EX3 X(1)

Tools and parts of tools, (excluding surgical, dental, veterinary and dissecting instruments) and machine tool
parts and accessories, the following (continued) : -

(ix) Pliers, pincers and nippers (excluding nail nippers and nail olippers) :-

(a) if the value does not exceed 12s. per dozen

(b) if the value exceeds 128. per dozen

Parts of any of the articles included in sub-head (ix) of this item
(a) if the value does not exceed 68. per dozen

(b) if the value exceeds 68. per dozen

(x) Non-portable lifting jacks (xi) Tyre levers and other appliances for
fitting tyres (xii) Broaches (xiii) Chucks

Rate of Duty
18.6d. per dozen ar 25%, whichever is the greater 38. per dozen ar 15%, whichever is the greater
9d. per dozen parts or 25%, whichever is the greater 18.6d. per dosen parts or 15 , whichever is the greater 1%5
15% 1576 15%

A1092

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Ex3 VIII (4) and Ex3 X(1 )

Tools and parts of tools , (excluding surgical , dental , veterinary and dissecting instruments) and machine tool
parts and accessories , the following (continued) :-

(xiv) Cutting tools for machine tools other than cutting tools includ in sub-heads (i ) ,
(iii ) , (iv) , (vii ) and (xii ) of this item but excluding

(a) high precision hobs of the types used in gear cutting machines;

(b) tools consisting of or tipped with any sintered preparation of tungsten carbide or other carbido with or without other ingredients; and
(c) diamond tools and abrasive tools

(xv) Jigs and fixtures

(xvi ) Press tools (xvii) Tool holders

(xviii ) Abrasive hand tools and abrasive parts of machine tools , manufactured wholly or partly of emery, corundum or artificial silicon carbide

(xix) Diamonds pierced so as to be adapted for use in wire drawing dies, unmounted or mounted suitably for such use

Rate of Duty
15%
15% 15% 15,3 20% 20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A1093

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM

Seotion A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Ex3 VIII (4) ( i) Hones and whetstones including oilstones and scythestones
3 VIII (4) ( 11 ) | Forks , shovels, spades , scythes , sickles and agricultural implements and parts thereof, other than handles of wood
3 VIII (4) (xvii) Tool handles of wood ( other than fork, shovel and spade handles of the box or "D" type, whether rivetted or not)
3 Exemptions Fork, shovel and spade handles of wood, of the box or "D" type , whether rivetted or not
Ex3 VIII(5) Alarm clocks
(i) of a value less than 12s each
(ii) of a value not less than 12s each

Ex3 IX (1 ) (11) Line telegraph and telephone apparatus the following: -
Telephone instruments of the desk and wall types
Teleprinters; morse transmitters and receivers; morse perforators and reperforators
Ex3 IX(1 ) (111) Wireless apparatus and parts, the following : -
Wireless receiving sets of the domestic or portable type , but not including wireless receiving sets designed or adapted for fitting to motor vehicles
Wireless transmitting sets , not including wireless transmitting sets designed or adapted for fitting to motor vehicles

Rate of Duty 20% 15% 15% Free 33%1 25% or 48. each , whichever is the greater 15%
20% 20%

A1094

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Ex3 IX(1 ) (111 ) Wireless apparatus and parts, the following (continued) : -
Dials
Loudspeakers of the cone type , with a diaphragm not exceeding 10 inches in diameter

3 IX(2) (1) Accumulators ( electric storage batteries)
3 IX (2) (11) Electrical cooking and heating apparatus, and 3 IX ( 2) ( iii) but not including:-
(1) accessories and component parts of motor vehicles

(ii) high frequency electronic heating apparatus

(iii) laboratory apparatus

Ex3 IX ( 1 ) ( iv) Primary battery carbons

5-

Arc-lamp carbons: -

Carbons exceeding 14 millimetres in diameter Other carbons

5-

Parts of arc-lamp carbons whether such parts

are finished or not

5-

Piezo-electric quartz plates, bars and rods

NOTE : If at any time Brazil exercises a
right to restrict in any way, or to subject to duties or other charges on exportation exceeding 10% ad valorem, supplies of raw quartz for export, the United Kingdom Government shall be free
to charge compensatory duties, in addition to the 10% provided for in this item.

Rate of Duty
20% 20% 15% 10%
20% 58. per lb. 78. 6d. per lb. 78. 6d. per lb. 10%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A1095

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Ex3 X(1 ) Power-operated excavating machinery (including levelling machinery) , poweroperated lifting machinery, and parts thereof , the following: -
Excavators , including long range excavators
Conversion front and attachments for excavators or cranes
Angledozer and bulldozer attachments Shovel , dragline and crane attachments
for lorries or tractors Excavator buckets , including shovel
dippers , dragline , clamshell , orange peel and grab buckets , rock grabs and slings Motor graders Dumpers Rippers and rooters Scrapers Road rollers Trenching machines and ditchers Cranes Hoists Winches Lifts (elevators)
Ex3 X(1) Telphers , power-oporated Conveyor or transporter installations, power-operated , which operate on a fixed track
Ex3 X(1 ) Mining machinery, power-operated, of the following kinds: -
Coal cutters Winders

Rate of Duty 15%
15% 1576 15%

A1096

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Ex3 X(1 ) Stone-working machines (not including stone-crushing or grinding machines, and portable power tools ) , being machines for cutting, shaping, dressing or polishing natural building stone
Ex3 X(1 ) Brick making machinery, the following : -
Brick presses
Ex3 X(1) Machine tools, other than welding machines and portable power tools , the following: -
Boring machines Drilling machines Grinding machines Lathes Milling machine s Planing machines Shaping machines Presses Punching machines Shearing machine s Sawing machine s Other machine tools, metal working
Ex3 X(1) Welding machinery (other than tube-waking machinery)
Ex3 X(1) Portable power tools, the following:-
Meatrio tools Pneumatic tools
Ex3 X(1 ) Air and gas compressors and exhausters
Ex3 X(1 ) Stationary internal combustion engines
Ex3 X(1 ) Power pumps, other than those of the types used for the delivery of petrol and oil at garages and filling stations

Rate of Duty
15% 15% 20%
15% 20% 15% 1576 17%1 17

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -- OCT. 30, 1947

A1097

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM

Section 4.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 X(2)(xiii) Pumps of the types used for the delivery of petrol and oil at garages and filling stations 15%

Ex3 X(1 ) Hydraulic machinery (other than parts of railway

wagons not exceeding 3 feet in gauge , and

accessories and component parts of motor

vehicles )

20%

3 X(1) Crankshafts , not being crankshafts of a type

suitable for use in motor vehicles or

aircraft

15%



Ex3 X(1) Injectors for boilers

15%

Ex3 X(1) Textile machinery, the following :-

157

Opening machines Ragtearing machines Garnetting machines Feeding machines Spreading machines Drying machines Scutching machines Tenterhook Willeys (Fearnought machines) Burring machines Hackling machines Carding machines Lap forming machines Combing machines Gilling machines Carboniaing machines Drawing frames Roving, flyer or speed frames Jute and hemp softening machines Beating machines
Fibre cutting machines Spinning machines and twisting machines,
including spinning frames and mules, but not including doubling machines Combinations of any of the above machines

Ex3 X(1) Textile machinery, the following : -

20%

Pirn or other weft package winding machines Cone or cheese winding machines Creeling , warping or beaming machines Sizing machines

A1098

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 ( continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 X(2) (xvii) Textile machinery of the following kinds: -

15%

Warp tying machines Warp drawing machines

Ex3 X(1 ) Textile machinery, the following: -

20%

Looms for weaving, of the type fitted with box motions

Ex3 X(1) Textile machinery, the following: -

Warp knitting machines

15%

Flat bar knitting machines, other than

full-fashioned hose machines

15%

Knitting machines (other than flat bar

knitting machines, full-fashioned hose

machines and warp knitting machines)

20%

Ex3 X(1 ) Sowing machines. not including toy sewing

machines

15%

3 X(2)(xxvi)

Sewing machine heads, being, in the case of hand 15% sewing machines, machines without stands or
separable cabinet work, and, in the case of treadle or power operated machines, machines without stands or separable cabinet work and
without equipment for providing motive power

Ex3 X(1 ) Paper-making and board-making machines

20%

Ex3 X(1 ) Paper ruling machines and paper cutting machines 20%

3 X(2) (xx1) Typesetting machines

15%

Ex3 X(1 ) Printing machines, the following: -

15%

Sheet fed cylinder, flat bed, platen or rotary presses, for either letter-

press, lithographic gravure or aniline

printing, whether printing from flat

forms or from curved plates or forms ,

whether hand fed or automatically fed

Magazine presses, whether flat bed, rotary sheet , or web fed and with or
without folding, stitching, and cutting mechanism

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A1099

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 X(2) ( i ) Rotary newspaper printing machines, that

is to say, rotary printing machines

designed for the printing of newspapere and the like from reels of paper, and

equipped with outting and folding

mechanism

15%



Ex3 X(1 ) Book-binding machines, the following: -

20%

Folding, collating and bundling machines Thread sewing and stitching machines Cover making and fitting machines Book backing and rounding machines Blocking and embossing machines Cutting machines Any combination of the above machines,
with or without paper ruling mechanism

Ex3 X(1 ) Automatic cardboard box and carton forming

and lining machines

20%

Ex3 X(1 ) Packing and labelling machines, the following : -

Carton and bread wrappers

20%

Labelling machines

20%

Filling machines with weighing devices

20%

Can casing machines

15%

3 x(2)(x) Cappers , sealers (excluding carton sealing

machines) and closers

15%

and X(2) ( viii ) Office machinery (other than machines operated in conjunction with punched cards) and parts of such office machinery, the following: -

Accounting machines

15%

Calculating machines

15%

Adding machines

15%

Listing machines

15%

Book-keeping machines

15%

Billing machines

15%

Posting machines

15%

Machines , other than typewriters , of a type specially adapted for the mechanical

writing of che ques

15%

A1100

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM Section A Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

3 X(2) (xviii) office machinery (other than machines and (xix) operated in conjunction with punched cards) and parts of such office machinery, the following (continued) : -

3 X(2) (iv) and Ex3 X( 1)

Machines of the types used for the automatic production of typewritten correspondence , with or without motors
Any combination of the above machines Cases and other parts (not being ribbon
spools, whether with or without ribbon, or parts of such spools, or electric motors) of the above machines and of typewriters (including electric typewriters )

Ex3 X(2) (xix) Office machinery, the following : -

Addressing machines Letter opening machines Letter sealing machines Stamp affixing machines
Coin sorting, counting and wrapping machines Perforating machines Postage franking machines

Ex3 X(2) (111) Typewriters , with or without cases, (not including electric typewriters, accounting, adding, listing, book-keeping or billing machines or typewriters incorporated therein), the following:-

(a) of a weight not exceeding 22 lbs.

(b) of a weight excceding 22 lbs.

Rate of Duty
15% 15%
20% 15%
£1.15s. Od. per machine or 20%, whichever is the greater, but not more than £3 per machine £2 per machine or 20%, whichever is the greater, but not more than £3.10s.Od. per machine

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A1101

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 ( continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 G.A. V.

Dictating machines, i.e. machines of the types 10% used for recording dictated correspondence ,
and reproducing machines and record shaving machines adapted for use in connection therewith

3 X(2) (xiv) Cash registers , with or without one or more cash 10% drawers, with or without accumulating registers (totalizers) and with or without tape recording, printing, and ticket-issuing devices

Ex3 X(1) Cash register parts (other than empty ribbon spools, parts of such spools and inked ribbons) 10%

Ex3 X(1 ) Electric motors (other than gramophone motors,

cinematograph motors , motor vehicle starter

motors, generators and motor generators)

from 1 to 10 horsepower

20%

3 X(2) (xii) Electrically operated machines of the types

15%

and Ex3 X(1 ) used for domestic and household purposes,

the following : -

Food mixers Dish washers Drink mixers
Fruit juice extractors Food grinders or slicers Refuse disposal units

3 X(2) (xxviii) | Vacuum cleaners , electrically operated

15%

3 X(2) (xii ) Electrically operated machines, the following: - 15%

Hair clippers Dry shavers

Ex3 X(1 ) Cinematograph appliances , the following: -

20%

Re-winds not constructed for attachment to cinematograph projectors

95347 0 49 -pt. 5 70

A1102

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

3 X(2) (xxiv) and Ex3 X(1 )

Refrigeration machinery, the following: -
Electrically operated refrigerators Complete mechanical units for
refrigerators or refrigerating plant

3 X(2) (xvii ) | Dry cleaning and laundering machines (other than hand-operated machines of the types used for domestic purposes) , the following : -
Cleaners and washers Driers Wringers Ironing machines Any combination of the above machines

3 X(2) (xxv) Air conditioning machines, self-contained, comprising elements for cooling, control of humidity, cleaning and circulating of air

3 X(2)(xv) Automatic multi-head glass bottle making machines

3 X(2) (xvi ) Automatic multi -head machines of the types used fort-

(a) making glass stems for electric lamps, or
(b) exhausting electric lamps and valves

Ex3 X(1 ) Glass working machines of the types used for surface grinding, polishing and smoothing in the production of plate glass

3 X(2)(xxix)

Rolling mill (metal-working) machinery of the following descriptions, viz . rolling mills of the types used for the reduction of metal by rolling; working and transporter roller racks and tables ; ingot, slab, bar and plate tilters and manipulators ; flying shears; strip coilers and parts of any of those articles, but not including forged or cast rolls of iron or steel for rolling mills

Rate of Duty 15%
15%
15% 15% 15% 15%
25%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1103

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 ( continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex3 X(1) Aircraft and aircraft parts , the following :-

20%

Aeroplanes and sca-planes , power driven, and parts thereof constructed or adapted solely for incorporation in such aircraft, but not including articles liable on the date of this Agreement to duty under the Safeguarding of Industries Lot , 1921 .

3 G.LV.

Machinery belting ( including conveyor and elevator bands ) of leather over inch thick and not more than 24 inches wide

(a) of a value not less than £30 per cwt. but not exceeding 45 per owt.

£4.10s. per ort.

(b) of a value exceeding £45 per owt.

10%

3 G. V.

Machinery belting (including conveyor and elevator bands) of rubber (including balata and gutta percha) and canvas

(a) of a value not less than £12.10s. per cwt. but not exceeding £18.158. per cwt.

£1.178.6d. por owt.

(b) of a value exceeding £18.158. per cwt. 10%

Ex3 XI (1 )(11) Chairs made wholly or mainly of bontwood (not

including bent plywood or laminated wood,

willow, cane or wicker)

20%

Ex3 XI(1 )(11) Wooden staves ( other than staves not further

prepared than sawn whether cylindrically

or otherwise)

20%

Ex3 (1)(11) Wooden bungs and shives

20%

EX3 XI (1 ) (11) Wooden cask hoops, including hoopwood in strips , notched or otherwise jointed at the unds
3 KI(2)(11) Hardwood flooring blocks or strips , planed and tongued and grooved, or planed and otherwise manufactured
3 XI(2) (111 ) Hardwood parquet flooring in sections composed of blocks or strips glued or otherwise joined together

20% 171 17

A1104

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 ( continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 XI (8) Wood and timber of coniferous species (other than box-boards , railway sleepers and sleeper blocks) , square sawn , but not further prepared or manufactured:-

(i) 11 inches or more in width throughout its length

88. per standard

(ii) Other :Of a value of £18 or more per standard Of a value of £16.128 . or more, but less than 18 , per standard
Provided that if the Government of the United States of America notifies the Government of the United Kingdom that the tax imposed on the importation of lumber into the United States of America under Section 601 (c) ( 6) of the Revenue Act of 1932 , as amended , has been removed; then, for so long as imports into the United States of America of lumber and timber described in Paragraph 401 of the Tariff Act of 1930 and originating in Canada are exempt from ordinary customs duties and charges in excess of 50 cents per thousand board feet , imports into the United Kingdom of wood and timber of coniferous specics originating in the United States of America shall be accorded customs

8s. per standard
10%,loss 1 % for cach 48. by which the value exceeds £16.88. per standard,

The standard referred to throughout this itam is the standard of 165 cubio foot .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1105

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 ( continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 XI(8) Wood and timber, etc. ( continued) : -

Proviso (continued) : -

treatment as follows , instead of that provided for above : -
Wood and timber of coniferous species
(other than box-boards , railway sleepers and sleeper blocks) , square sawn , but
not further prepared or manufactured: 9 inches or more in width throughout its longth and 15 feet or more in length Other :-
Of a value of £18 or more per standard Of a value of 16.48 . or more, but loss
than £18, per standard

Free
Frce
10% , less 1% for cach 48. by which the value exoeods £16 per standard.

Provided further that, whenevor for a period of any four conscoutive months the average value of the imports into the United Kingdom from all countries of sawn softwoods (exclusive of planed or dressed softwoods) , as now shown in the monthly Trade Returns of the United Kingdom under that heading, either excoeds £14 per standard or is loss than £10 per standard; then, after consultation with the Goverment of the United States of America, each of the value limitations set forth in
this item may be increased in the one case by £1 per standard for cach complete pound sterling by which such average value exceeds £13 per standard, or may be decreased in the other case by £1 per standard for each complete pound sterling by which such average value is less than £11 por standard; but the value limitations set forth in this item shall be restored as soon as possible after the conditions which gave rise to these modifications no longer exist .

The standard referred to throughout this item is the standard of 165 cubic feet.

A1106

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 G.A.V.

Hardwood, not further prepared than square

sawn

10%

3 G.A.V.

Hoopwoodin the form of strips of rough wood

whether straight or coiled, but not

including strips notched or otherwise

jointed at the ends

10%

3 G.A.V.

Pencil slats of wood

10%

3 G.A.V.

Plywood (including laminboard, blockboard

and battenboard) faced with softwood

10%

3 G.A.V.

Wooden staves not further prepared than sawn

(whether cylindrically or otherwise )

10%

3 G.A.V.

Wooden boot last blocks roughly shaped by

sawing or turning, but not further

manufactured

10%

3 G.A.V.

Wooden golf club head blocks roughly shaped

by sawing, but not further manufactured

10%

3 G.A.V.

Wooden gun, carbine , and rifle stock blocks,

roughly shaped by sawing, and such blocks

planed or polished, but not further

manufactured

10%

3 G.A.V.

Wooden sections of cask heads not dowel-holed

ar pegged, and cask heads consisting of a

single circular sheet of wood

10%

3 G.A.V.

Rattan cane in the natural state , or not

further prepared than split and bleached

7%1

3 Exemptions Persimmon wood, hickory wood and cornelwood,

in logs, planks, square-cut blocks or lengths,

or blocks or lengths of rectangular cross-

section tapered by sawing on one or more

sides, not further prepared or manufactured

Free

3 Exemptions Logs of Gaboon mahogany (okoumé ) in the

natural state , not hewn or sawn except

arose-out at the ends, and not less than

10 feet in length and 2 feet in diameter

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A1107

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM

Section A

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No Part and Group

Description of Products

6-

Silk:-

Cocoons and waste of all kinds : -

Undischerged Wholly or in part discharged other than
noils Noils

Raw : -

Undischarged Wholly or in part discharged
Yarn :-

Undischarged

Wholly or in part discharged Not being noil yarn

Noil yar

Tissues 1-
Bolting cloth, not treated or operated upon, containing no other fibre than silk

Rate of Duty
6d. per lb. 18.6d. per lb. 6d. per lb.
18.6d . per lb. 25.2d. per lb.
28.2d. per lb. plus 22 % of the value of the yarn
2s, 9d. per lb. plus 22 of the value of the yarn 9d. per lb. plus 22 of the value of the yarn
2s.3d. per lb. plus 22 of the value of the cloth

Paragraph 1 at the head of this Schedule shall not apply to this item

A1108

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No Part and Group

Description of Products

6-

Silk (continued) : -

Tissues (continued) : -

Eastern tissues of the varieties known as
Shantung, Ninghai , Nanshan, Honan, Antung and Habutai ·
Not dyed or printed

Dyed or printed

Noil Tissue Containing less than 10 by weight of silk or of silk and artificial silk
Containing 10% or more by weight of silk or of silk and artificial silk
Paragraph 1 at the head of this Schedule shall not apply to this item.

Rate of Duty
28.9d. per lb. t plus 22 per cent of the value of the tissue
3s. 6d. per lb. plus either 18.0d. per square yard on the area of the tissue , or 221 of the value of the tissue whichever is the greater
10d. per lb. weight of silk and 11d. per lb. weight of artificial silk, plus 17 % of the value of the tissue
10d. per lb. + weight of silk and 11d. per lb. weight of artificial silk, plus 22 % of the value of the tissue

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1109

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDON

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

6-

Silk (continued) : -

Tissues (continued) :-

Other Tissues : Undi schargedContaining less than 10% by weight of silk or of silk and artificial silk

Containing 10% or more by weight of silk or of silk and artificial silk

Wholly or in part dischargedContaining less than 10% by weight of silk or of silk and artificial silk

Exceeding 12 inches in width and containing more than 75% by weight of silk wholly or in part discharged (other than noil ) , or of such silk and artificial silk

Paragraph 1 at the end of this Schedule shall not apply to this item.

Rate of Duty
28. 3d. per lb. f weight of silk and 11d. per lb. weight of artificial silk, plus 17 % of the value of the tissue
2s. 3d. per lb. weight of silk and 11d per lb. weight of artificial silk, plus 22 % of the value of the tissue.
38.6d. per lb. f weight of silk and 11d. per lb. weight cr artificial silk , plus 17 % of the value of the tissue.
3s. 6d. per lb. f weight of silk and 11d per lb. weight of artificial silk, plus either 18. per square yard on the area of the tissue or 22 % of the value of the tissue whichever is the greater.

A1110

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

6-

Silk (continued) : -

Tissues (continued ) : -

Other Tissues (continued) :-

In other cases

6-

Artificial silk: -

Waste

Yarn

Tissues
Containing less than 10% by weight of artificial silk or of artificial silk and silk

Paragraph 1 at the head of this Schedule shall not apply to this item.

Rate of Duty
3s. 6d. per lb. f weight of silk and 11d. per lb. weight of artificial silk, plus 22 % of the value of the tissue .
9d. per lb. t 9d. per lb. plus 22 % of the value of the yarn.
11d. per lb. weight of artificial silk, plus the appropriate duty by weight on any silk contained in the tissue , plus 17 % of the value of the tissue.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A1111

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Bate of Duty

Artificial Silk Tissues (continued) : Exceeding 12 inches in width and containing more than 75% by weight of (a) artificial silk, but no discharged or partly discharged silk (other than noil)
(b) artificial silk and wholly or partly discharged silk (other than nodl)
Other TiamAS

11d. per lb. weight f of artificial silk, plus the appropriate duty by weight on any silk contained in the tissue , plus either 8d . per square yard on the area of the tissue or 17 % of the value of the tissue whichever is the
greater
11d. per lb. weight of artificial silk, plus the appropriate duty by weight an any silk contained in the tissue , plus either 18. per square yard on the area of the tissue or 17 % of the value of the tissue whichever is the greater
11d. per lb. weight f of artificial silk, plus the appropriate duty by weight on any silk contained in the tissue plus 17 % of the value of the tissue

Paragraph 1 at the head of this Schedule shall not apply to this item

A1112

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Manufactures wholly or partly of cotton , wool (including alpaca, mohair, cashmere, llama, vicina and camels' hair) , hemp of all kinds, flax or jute, of the following descriptions (but excluding coir, rush, grass, raffia, straw or reed mats and matting) :-

Ex3 XII(1) (1)

Tissues, not shaped, consisting wholly of wool , cotton or flax, or consisting wholly of a combination of two or all of these materials

NOTE: The Government of the United Kingdom
shall be free to impose on tissues containing flax a duty higher than that provided for in respect of the above item if at any time supplies of raw flax for export from the territories of Belgium, Luxemburg or the Netherlands are subjected to duties or other charges on exportation.

2x3 XIT(1 ) (11) 3 XII(1)(iv)

Motion picture screens of cotton or flax
Carpets, carpeting, floor rugs, floor mats and matting (not being goods manufactured wholly or partly of fur skin, including any skin with fur, hair or wool attached)

(a) hand made, knotted

(b) being material consisting of rubber sheeting with a textile backing, not made up
(e) other kinds

171
20%
48.6d per square yard exclusive of fringes,
17%3 1s. 6d per square yard, exclusive of fringes, or 20%, whichever is the greater

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1113

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 ( continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Manufactures wholly or partly of cotton, pl (including alpaca, mohair, oashmere, llama, viouna and camels' hair) , hemp of all kinds, flax or jute, of the following descriptions (but excluding coir, rush, grass , raffia, straw or reed mats and matting ) (continued) :-

3 XII(1 ) (vi) (a)

Handkerchiefs, finished or unfinished , of which neither the length nor the width exceeds 24 inches

28.91, per lb. or 17 % whichever is the greater

Xx3 XII(1)(11 )

Bed furnishings , wholly of cotton, following :-

Bedspreads and quilts, sheets, pillow
cases and bolster cases, mattress cases

176%

Ix3 XII(1 )(11)

Face, hand or bath towels, wholly of cotton 171

3 G.A.V.

Mats and natting made wholly of rush, reed, straw or grass

X

3 G.A.V. 3 G.A.V.

Braids, plaited , not exceeding 1 inch in width, consisting entirely of flattened natural straw which has not been subjected to any

process of treatment other than bleaching

10%

Yarns consisting wholly of wool , cotton, flax
or heap, or consisting wholly of a combination of two or more of these materials 7

NOTE: The Government of the United Kingdom shall be free to impose on yarns containing flax a duty higher than that provided for
in respect of the above item if at any time supplies of raw flax for export from the territories of Belgium, Luxemburg or
the Netherlands are subjected to duties or other charges on exportation.

3 Exemptions Cotton, rav

Free

3 Exemptions Cotton linters, unbleached

Free

A1114

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

80HEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Seotion A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Iten No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 Exemptions Cotton waste , unmanufactured , that is to say,

waste arising in any process up to and

including spinning, or in the doubling process,

or (not being a waste piece of tissue or of

a like material) in the knitting or weaving

or ancillary finishing processos , which has

not been subjected to any process after becoming

vaste

Free

3 Exemptions Wool noils

Free

3 Exemptions Tow of flax

Free

3 Exemptions Rags ( including discarded collars, fronts

and cuffs of flax or cotton) , not pulled,

wholly or partly of flax, cotton, hemp,

juto , rade, wool or hair, but excluding

rags wholly or partly of furskin

Free

3 Exemptions Vegetable fibres of the following varieties,

not further dressed after acutching or

decorticating: -

Free

Flax
Bahia piassava (attalea fundfera) Para piassava (leopoldinia piassaba) Madagascar fibre (dictyosperma fibrosum) Hemp of the variety true hemp (cannabis
sativa)

3 G..V.

Vegetable fibres of the following descriptions, not further processed after stripping and dry.ng:-

Caroa fibre (neoglasiovia variegata) Guaxima of the variety urena lobata Milkweed (asoepias syriaca and ascepias
incarnata) Papoula de Sao Francisco (hibisous
cannabinus) Tuoun or Ticum (bactris setosa)
3 Exemptions Ranie , not dressed

Free Free
7
Fre 10% Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1115

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 Exemptions Bristles of the pig, hog or boar, imparted in bundles or bunches which consist

exclusively of such bristles and in which

the bristles are laid parallel, excluding

bundles or bunahes which are in a state

ready, or substantially ready, for

incorporation in a brush or broam

Free

3 God.V.

Hair, being hair of the tails or manes of

horses, asssa, males and borine animale

and hair of piga, hogs and boara, dynased

and/or dyed, but not further processed or

manufactured

1015

3 God.Y.

Kapok (being the seed bairs of the eriodendron anfractuomm or Bombar pentandrus) raw, dried, but not further treated

*

3 XIII(1)

Articles of apparel (not being articles mamifactured wholly or partly of fur skin, including any skin with fur, hair or wool attached, or articles incorporating artificial flowers, foliage or fruit) the following:-

Women's and girls ' outer garments, being dresses, coats and skirts (other than divided skirts), whether imported as
separate garments or as contamen, made entirely of woven fabrics and containing no vool

(a) consisting wholly of cotton

1 % or is.. par
garment, whichever is the greater Ø

Tool includes alpaca, mohair, cashmere, llama, vious and camels' hair

The rate of duty to be charged upon any garment which would otherwise fall within this item, but which does not do so by reason only that it gonsists wholly or partly of any of the materials mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of paragraph 2 at the head of this Schedule, shall not be higher than the highest appropriate rato provided for by that paragraph

A1116

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Seation A Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 ( continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Articles of apparol etc. (continued) :-

3 XIII(1)

Women's and girls' outer garments, being dresses, coats and skirts ( other than divided skirts) , whether imported as separate garments or as costumes , made antirely of woven fabrics and containing no wool (continued) :-

(b) other

6-

Stockings and socks made wholly of silk or

containing silk components the value

wheroof exceeds 20% of the aggregate of

the values of all the components thereof

Rate of Duty
20% or 2s, per A garment, which ever is the greater, 33%4 or 126. the dosen pairs , whichever is the greater

Paragraph 1 at the hoad of this Sohedule shall not apply to this item, but the Government of the United Kingdon shall be frue to maintain until the 1st September, 1948 , the rate in force at the date of this Agreement.
Wool includes alpaca, mohair, cashmere , llana, viouna and canels' hair.
The rate of duty to be charged upon any garment which would otherwise fall within this item, but which does not do so by reason only that it consists wholly or partly of any of the materials mentioned in sub-paragraphs (b) and (o) of paragraph at the head of this Schedule , shall not be higher than the highest appropriate rate provided for by that paragraph.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

Al117

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Articles of apparel etc. ( continued) : -
Stockings and socks (containing no silk) made wholly of artificial silk, ar containing artificial silk components the value whereof exceeds 20% of the aggregate of the values of all the components thereof: -
(a) where all the artificial silk consists of regenerated cellulose or cellulose acctate

(b) in other cases

3 XIII(1) 3 XIII(1)

Dressing gowns
Undergarments consisting entirely of woven fabrics , the following: -
Vests , pants , knickers, combinations, petticoats and similar articles , not including shirts or nightwear
Paragraph 1 at the head of this Schedule shall not apply to this item but the Government of the United Kingdom shall be free to maintain until the 1st September, 1948 , the rate in force at the date of this Agreement .
The rate of duty to be charged upon any garment which would otherwise fall within this item , but which does not do so by reason only that it consists wholly or partly of any of the materials mentioned in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of paragraph 2 at the head of this Schedule, shall not be higher than the highest appropriate rato provided for by that paragraph .

Rate of Duty
331% or 7s. 6d.  the dozen pairs, whichever is the greater 331% or 10s. the dozen pairs, whichever is the greater 20%
20%

95347 0-49- -pt. 5 -71

A1118

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM

Section A

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Articles of apparel etc. (continued) : -

3 XIII(1)

Corsets and similar body-supporting undergarments and brassieres
NOTE : The products provided for under the above sub-item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 15% ad valorem.

3 XIII(1 )

Men's shirts with length measurements not less than 32 inches (front) and 35 inches (back) and with neckband measuring not less than 14 inches, made entirely of woven fabrics and of a value not less
than 48. each, and collars and cuff's therefor

3 XIII(1) Nightwear, the following: -

Pyjama sleeping suits, made entirely of woven fabrics

3 XIII(1)

Outer garments of a kind suitable only for children under three years of age, the following: -
Coats, dresses , skirts, leggings , ramper and other one-piece suits, cardigans , jumpers , blouses, pinafores and boys ' knickers
The rate of duty to be charged upon any garment which would otherwise fall within this item, but which does not do so by reason only that it consists wholly or partly of any of the materials mentioned in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of paragraph 2 at the head of this Schedule, shall not be higher than the highest appropriate rate provided for by that paragraph.

Rate of Duty 20%
20% 20% 20%

a

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1119

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM

Seotion A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Teriff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Articles of apparel , etc. (continued) :-

3 XIII (5)

Hats , caps , bonnets , hoods , hat shapes , brims , crowns and similar articles (excluding rubber bathing caps and toy paper hats and caps):-

(1) Not made wholly or partly of felt or wool : -

(a) if lined , trimmed or decorated

in any manner, or if the

edges have been cut to shape ,

homed or bound

25%

(b) in other cases

15

(ii) Made wholly or partly of felt : -

(a) loosely felted hat forms and cone-shaped felt hat bodies
(b) other descriptions : -

48. per dozen or 15 ,whichever is the
greater

(1 ) if made wholly or partly of felt ( not being felt
wholly of wool ) of which any part has a velour , soleil , peach bloom or other finish with a raised or laid
pile

15s. per dozen or 25% ,whichever is the
greater .

(2) in other cases
(iii) Made wholly or partly of wool , but not of felt

53. per dozen or 25% ,whichever is the greater
25%

A1120

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Articles of apparel, etc. (continued) : -

3 XIII(4) (1) & (11 )

Gloves (not including gloves known as astrakhan gloves ) and material shaped for making into gloves, the following: -

Gloves made in whole or in part of leather (not including gloves in which leather is used only as trimming or binding) , and leather shaped for making into gloves (other than leather shaped for triming or binding)

Gloves wholly or partly cut out of fabric containing cotton, and sewn up (not including gloves in which the fabric containing cotton is present in the lining only) and fabric containing cotton shaped for making into or lining gloves

3 XIII(1)

Knitted gloves made wholly of wool or cotton or a combination thereof

3 XIII (2) (1 ) Men's footwear, the following:-

Boots, bootees, shoes , overshoes, slippers and sandals of all descriptions (but not including articles made wholly or partly of rubber ( or synthetic rubber) , balata or gutta percha, except where the outer
part of the uppers, apart from stitchinga, fastenings or ornaments, is made entirely of leather or leather and elastic)

3 XIII (2)(111 ) Women's footwear, the following:-

Boots, bootees , shoes, overshoes, slippers and sandals of all descriptions (but not including articles made wholly or partly of rubber (or synthetic rubber) , balata or gutta percha, except where the outer
part of the uppers, apart from stitchings , fastenings or ornaments, is made entirely of leather or leather and elastic )

30%
30% 20% 15%
10% or 3s . the pair, whichever is the greater

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1121

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 XIII (6) (ii ) Trimmings , millinery mounts and similar

articles , made wholly or partly of

feathers (excluding down)

25%

3 G.L.V.

Bed feathers imported in bulk; and down

10%

3 XIV(1 ) (iii) ( a) Acetic acid , other than glacial or synthetic 334%

3 XIV( 1 ) (iii) (b ) | Boric acid (refined)

20%

3 XIV(1 ) (111 ) ( c ) Citric acid

10%

5-

Lactic acid

33355

3 G.A.V. 3 G.A.V.

Oleic acid , other than R Grade Stearic acid , other than R Grade

10% JER 10% JEDE

3 XIV(1 ) (iii ) (e) Tartaric acid

10%

3 XIV(1 )(xviii) Vinegar

333

3 XIV(1 ) (vii) Borax (refined)

20%

3 Exemptions

Boron minerals , crude , and concentrates of

boracite and rasorite

Free

5-

Caffeine and salts thereof

25%

3 G.A.V.

Carbon black from natural gas

10%

3 XIV(1 ) (x1)

Cream of tartar

10%

5-

Emetine and salts thereof

20%

The qualification " other than R grade" signifies that the commitment does not extend to the product mentioned when imported as "pure " , "purissimum" "extra pure" , " B.P. " , " Ph. G. " , "A. R. " , "for analysis" , "reagent" , or of special quality for meeting special tests for purity.
(B.P. BritishPharmacopocia Ph.G. German Pharmacopoei A. R. = Analytical Reagent)

A1122

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 ( continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

3 Exemptions Iodine, other than R Grade
Ex3 XIV( 1 ) (xv) Lithopone ( dry) containing not less than 25% by weight of zinc sulphide

53 G.. V. 5-

Menthol , natural , R Grade Menthol, natural , other than R Grade Potassium permanganate

3 Exemptions Potassium sulphate , other than R Grade

3 Exemptions Potassium chloride , other than R Grade

3 G..V.

Sodium chromate

3 Exemptions Sodium nitrate (other than synthetic)

3 G.. V.

Potassium nitrate (other than synthetic)

3 G.. V.

Sulphate of quinine of vegetable origin

3 Exemptions Sulphur , excluding precipitated sulphur which satisfies the requirements of the British Pharmacopoeia

5-

Theobromine and salts thereof

3 XIV(1 ) (xx) Zinc oxide , other than R Grade
The qualification " other than R Grado" signifies that the content does not extend to the product mentioned when imported as " pure " , " purissimum" , " extra pure" , "B.P. " , " Ph.G. " , "....R. " , " for analysis" , " reagent" , or of special quality for neoting special tests for purity.

(B.P. British Pharmacopoeia Ph. G. German Pharmacopoeia 4. R. = Analytical Reagent)

Rate of Duty
Free £3.5s. per ton or 20 whichever is the greater. 15% 5% 3316 Froe Free 10% Free Free 10%
Free 25% 20%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

Al123

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Beation A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

3 G.A.V. 4-

Synthetic organic dyestuffs (including pigment dyestuffs ), whether soluble or insoluble; compounds , preparations and articles manufactured fra any such dyestuffs, except any such compounds, preparations and articles as are not suitable for use in dyeing ; and organic intermediate products used in the manufacture of any such dyestuffs
Babassu oil
Castor oil

3 G.A.V. Citronella oil

43 G.A.V.

Coconut oil Copaiba oil

3 G.A.V. Cotton ail

4-
4, and 3 XIV(4)

Groundnut oil Linseed oil

3 Exemptions Oiticica oil, raw 3 G.A.V. Palm-oil, unrefined 3 G.A.V. Palmarosa oil

3 Exemptions Tung oil (China wood oil) , raw

Essential oils, natural , but not terpeneless, the following :-

3 Exemptions 3 Exemptions 3 G.A.V. 3 G.A.V. 3 G.A.V.
3 Exemptions 3 G.A.V.

Geranium Rosewood (Bois de Rose ) Ylang-ylang Orange Vetivert (cus-ous) Aniseed Clove

Rate of Duty
331% 10% 12~ 10% 15% Free 10% 15%
15% Free 10% 10% Free
Free Free 10 10 10% Free Free

A1124

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM

Scotion A

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description reducts

3 G.A.V.

Beeswax

3 Exemptions Carnauba wax

3 Exemptions Ourloury wax

3 G.A.V.

Paraffin wax

3 G.A.V.

Petroleum jelly, not containing any other substance

3 XIV(6) (11) Soft soap

3 XIV(6) (iii) Hard soap (other than abrasive soap and toilet soap)

3 XIV(6) (iv) Toilet soap

Natural raw materials in a dried state, not chopped, ground, manufactured or prepared, the following:-

3 Exemptions 3 Exemptions 3 Exemptions 3 G.A.V. 3 G.A.V. 3 G.A.V. 3 G.A.V. 3 G..V.

Quillaia bark Liquorioe root Cumaru seed Sesamum seed Castor seed
Copra Karite Butter (Shea Butter) Vanilla

3 Exemptions Cinchona bark

3 G.A.V.

Gambier (catechu pallidum)

3 Exemptions Pyrethrum flowers

3 Exemptions Solid natural resins of the following kind:-

Dragon's blood

Rate of Duty
10% Free Free 10%
10% 15%
10% 25%
Free Free Free 5% 7 10% 10% 10% Free Free Free
Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1125

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

3 G.A.V.

Timbo powder, being powder from various species of Lonchocarpus

3 Exemptions Rosin (colophony) 3 Exemptions Rubber, raw, including crepe ; rubber latex

3 G.A.V.

Maize starch of a value not excceding 10s. per cwt. of a value exceeding 10s. pcr cwt.

3 XIV(3) (iv) Printers' ink
3 XIV(7) Glue , gelatine and size , in any form , derived from animal or fish

EX3 XIV(3)(1 ) Varnishes not containing pigments
3 Exemptions Sheep and lamb skins , raw, dried , salted or pickled , but not further treated

3 G.A.V.

Goatskins , raw, dried , salted or pickled , but not further treated

3 XV(1 ) (1)

Leather, dressed (other than machinery belting (including conveyor and elevator bands ) of leather over inch thick and not more than
24 inches wide , of a value not less than £30 per owt. , patent leather of a thick permanent high gloss finish, and glace kid , being chrono tanned goatskin of smooth , polished finish) :-

(a) Box and willow calf , box and willow sides , and other chrome tanned calf , kip and hide leather , imported in skins or pieces weighing less than 4 lb. each: -

(1 ) not being such scrap or waste as is mentioned below

(2 ) scrap or waste of chrome tanned calf, kip and hide leather , being leather of a kind not used in the uppers of boots and shoes

(b) Other sorts

Rate of Duty 10% Free Free 10% 71% or 18. per cwt., whichever is the greater 121 20% 15% Free 10%
20%
10% 15%

A1126

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED XINIDOR Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

3 G.A.V. 3 G.A.V.

Glaod kid, being chrome tanned goatskin of smooth, polished finish, not shaped
Reptile leather, undressed, of the following descriptions: -

Snake, lizard, crocodile and alligator skins, not shaped

Patent leather of a thick, permanent high gloss finish, not shaped

3 XV(1 ) (iii )

Trunks, bags, wallets, pouches and other receptacles, made wholly or partly of leather, or material resembling leather, whether fitted or not, the following:-

(a) Women's handbags and pochettes, without key looks , of which neither the length nor the width,
exclusive of the handle, exceeds 12 inches

(b) Other women's handbags and pochettes

(o) Other sorts
3 Exemptions Fur skdns, of the following desoriptions, raw, dried, salted or pickled, but not further treated:-
Muskrat (Ondatra) Fax :
Silver (Vulpes) Cross (Vulpes) Bed (Vulpes)
Grey Urooyon) Arotio (Alopex) Raccoon (Procyon) Slamk (Mephitis) Civet cat (Spilogale) Opossum (Didelphis) Mink (Mustela) Otter (Lutra) Sea Otter (Enhydra)

Rate of Duty
10% 10%
71
174% 18,6d. sach, whichever is the greater
221 or 28.3d. each, whichever is the greater 22 Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1127

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM

Section

Metropolitan Territory

PART I

Division 1 ( continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

3 V(2) (1) Fur and other skins (dressed) , including pieces thereof, but not including leather

FX3 XV(2) (11) Purskins, merely sown together, as used for making linings and trimings, and know as strips and plates
3 G.h.V. Hatters' fur

3 XV(3)(11)(b)|| Material consisting of rubber sheeting or synthetic rubber sheeting , with a textile backing, not made-up

3 XV(3)(iii) and
3 G.A.V.

Tubing and piping, with or without nozzles or other fittings attached thereto , manufactured wholly or partly of any of
the following materials, whether or not vulcanised or otherwise compounded: -

Rubber Synthetic rubber Balata Gutta percha

3 G.A. V.

Sheets and sheeting wholly of rubber or synthetic rubber, imported as such

3 XVI(3)(iii)

Paper and board made from paper or pulp, whether coated or otherwise treated in
any manner or not , of a weight when fully extended equivalent to more than 90 lb. to the ream of 480 sheets of double crown
measuring 30 inches by 20 inches: -

Unlined strawboard

3 XVI(7) Cigarette papers in booklet containers

3 XVI(8) Paper dress patterns including the paper envelopes in which they are enclosed

3 XVI(9)

Face and hand towels, made wholly of paper, of a weight when fully extended equivalent to not less than 10 lb. to the rean of 480 shoots of double crown measuring
30 inches by inches

Rate of Duty
17 10%
10%
15% 162/396 10% 10%

A1128

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 XVI (10) Serviettes and handkerchiefs, not printed,

of a superficial area not exceeding

400 square inches, made wholly of paper,

of a weight when fully extended

equivalent to not less than 7 lb. to the

ream of 480 sheets of double crown

measuring 30 inches by 20 inches

10%

3 XVI (11 ) Vulcanised fibre in reels , coils, sheets ,

strips, rods or tubes, not further

manufactured

15%

3 XVII(1 )(1) Wagons for use on railways not exceeding

three feet in gauge , and parts of such

wagons other than complete roller bearing

and ball bearing axle boxes

332

Motor vehicles, the following: -

Ex3 XVII(2) (1) (a)

(1) Motor bicycles and motor tricycles

221%

(ii) Agricultural tractors (not being

track-laying tractors)

15%

3 X(2)(x)(a) (iii) Track-laying tractors of a type

suitable for hauling or pushing

implements, with or without

separate power take -off; but

not including machines specially

adapted for other purposes , in which the track is ancillary

(a) of a drawbar horse-power

not exceeding 50

20%

(b) of a drawbar horse-power

exceeding 50

15%

x3 X(2)(x)(b)

(iv) All other kinds (except track-

laying tractors ) of 25 horse-

power or more

331%

Accessories and component parts of motor vehicles : -

3 XVII(2)(11)(a)

(1) Accumulators (electric storage

batteries)

15%

3 X(2) (x)(0)

(ii) Parts of track-laying tractors

being tracks or parts of tracks

15%

The Government of the United Kingdom shall be free to maintain until the 1st September, 1948, the rates, and margin of preference , in force at the date of this Agreement.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

Al129

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Seotion A. Metropolitan Territory
FART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 XVII (3) (1) Cycles (not mechanically propelled)

20%

3 XVII (3 ) (11 ) (e ) Parts and accessories of cycles (other than 20% motor cycles) not being:-

(a) Electric dynamo lighting sets, comprising dynamo and head lamp, with or without clips and wiring, and with or without rear lamp
(b) Dynamos for lighting sets with or without clips and wiring; and cases (or bodies ) thereof, whether complete or not
(o) Electric lamps adapted for use an oycles; and cases (or bodies) thereof, whether complete or not
(d) OTyyorlese baenldlsinner tubes

3 XVIII (1 ) (1 ) Sporting guns with two or more smooth-bore 25% barrels

3 XVIII (2) (1)

Toilet preparations of the following

descriptions (excluding bath salts and

essences; prepared fullers earth; soap;

and petroleum jelly not containing any other

substance):-

20%

Tooth paste or powder and liquid prepara tions for dental purposes and mouth washes
Toilet paste or powder Toilet cream
Lipstick, rouge and greasepaint Hair dyes Preparations for use in manicure or
chiropody Other preparations for use on the hair,
face or body

NOTE: The products provided for under the above item shall be exempt from ordinary most-favoured-nation customs duties which
exceed the preferential duties on such products by more than 15% ad valorem.

A1130

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section & Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Ex 3 XVIII( 2) (11) Bath salts

257

3 G.A.V.

Dental plate fixative powder

10%

Toilet requisites of the following descriptions : -

3 XVIII(3)

Powder bowls or boxes and powder puffs, and parts thereof
Nail polishers Nail clippers , nail cleaners and
nail files Denture bowls Manicure sets Parts of the above articles

6-

Perfumed Spirits

Imported Imported in cask in bottle

If warehoused 3 years or more If warehoused 2 andless than 3 years
If not warehoused , or warehoused less than 2 years

The liquid The liquid

gallon

gallon

Eve

To Le 8.

9. 12. 0. 9. 13. 0. E

9. 13. 7. 9. 14. 7.

9. 14. 5. 9. 15. 5. 2

Paragraph 1 at the head of this Schedule shall not apply to this item, but the Government of the United Kingdom shall be free to maintain until the 1st September,
1948, the rates in force at the date of this Agreement.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1131

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory. PART I

Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

3 XVIII (5)

Spectacles, goggles, eye glasses and monocles (other than spectacles or goggles with protective side -shields) ; frames and mountings for spectacles or goggles (whether with protective aide-shielda or not) or for eye glasses or monocles, and parts of such frames and mountings; but not including artioles chargeable on the date of this Agreement with duty under the Safeguarding of Industries Act, 1921 .

3 XVIII (6)

Artificial teeth, crowns and facings (excluding teeth, crowns and facings for specimen purposes mounted on metal strips or having a number indelibly impressed or embossed on the front thereof) :-

(1 ) wholly or partly of metal

(ii) all others

Ex3 XVIII(7)(1)(6) Jewellery containing gold or platinum

Ex3 IV(4 ) (11) 3 IV(5)
B3XVIII (8) (11)

Articles which consist, or apart from glass or porcelain linings or small fittings of base metal consist, wholly of onyx, marble or granite, the following:- Vases, inkstands with or without trays or penholders, pen or pencil racks, stands and trays;
Blotters and letter openers made wholly or
mainly of onyx, marble or granite Bureau sets consisting of two or more of
the articles specified in this item.

Rate of Duty
25%
10s. per hundred or 15% whichever is the greater. 38. per hundred or 15% whichever is the greater. 30%
20% 20% 20%

A1132

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 Exemptions Unset semi - precious stones , the following : -

Aquamarine , tourmaline , kunzite , arate , onyx, topaz , amethyst

Quartz (not including quartzite and quartz sand) , raw, including crushed, of the following varieties : -
Rock crystal quartz Citrine

3 Exemptions

Animal ivory, raw, whether whole tusks or seotions of tusks , not out to shape or in any way prepared, treated or worked

3 XVIII (9) (1 ) Snap fasteners , push buttons , studs , hooks and eyes

Free
Free 15%

3 XVIII (10) Buttons , whether finished or unfinished , of

a description commonly used for the

fastening or decoration of wearing apparel

or household linen, but not including

buttons wholly or partly of lamp-blown

ware or cellulose acotate

30%

3 XVIII(11) Beads and bead trimming , but not including

lamp-blown ware

15%

Ex3 XVIII (12) Artificial flowers , foliage and fruit, but 25% not including articles of lamp-blown ware or glass wool

Articles of stationery , the following: -

Ex3 XVIII ( 13) (1) ; Chalk, crayons , pastels , and pencil leads 15%

Ex3 XVIII ( 13 ) (1 ) | Parts for files , list binders and

indexers , wholly of metal

15%

Ex3 XVIII ( 13 ) ( 1 ) | Pen nibs

19%

3 XVIII ( 13) (111) Drawing ink

15%

3 XVIII ( 13) (iv) | Paste and mucilage , in small containers

15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1133

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Articles of stationary, the following (continued) : -

3 XVIII(13) (v)

Rubber bands

Ex3 IVIII(13) (v1)

Rubber erasers of a value exceeding 2s.6d. per lb.

3 XVIII(14) Baskets manufactured wholly or partly of willow, qane or wicker

3 XVIII(17) (1) || Felt base floor covering
3 XVIII(19) Pipes for moking tobacco, etc.; holders for cigars and cigarettes; and parts thereof

3 XVII (20) (1)| Unexposed sensitised photographio paper, cloth, plates and film (other than cinematograph film) , spools therefor and parts of such spools

Appliances, apparatus, accessories and requisites for sports, games, gymnastics or athletics, and parts, the following:-

3 XVIII(21 ) (111)

Coin or disc operated machines and parts thereof

3 XVIII(21) (iv)

Fishing tackle , the following: -
Rods wholly or mainly of iron or steel

Reels

Ex3 XVIII (21 ) ()

Golf clubs of a value exceeding 175, 60, each

13 XVIII (21 ) (vi)
3 XVII(21 ) (+11) 3 IVIII(21 ) (viii)

Golf club shafts of a valus exceeding 68.6d. each
Golf tees of wood
Golf alub bags

**

Rate of Duty
15% 15% 30% 15% 20%
25%
20%
1%9 19% 20% 20% 20%

95347 0-49- pt. 5- -72

A1134

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULT XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 1 (concluded)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Ix3 XVIII ( 22) Roller skates

3 XVIII( 25) (1 ) Gramophones with electrical amplification, including radio-gramophones

3 XVIII( 25) (11) Gramophone records for reproducing music
3 XVIII ( 25) (iv) Pipe organs and reed organs , not including organs with electrical amplification

Ex3 XVIII(25 ) Musical instruments , wind and string, component parts thereof and accessories
thereto (other than complete instruments the value of which does not exceed 2s. 6d. )

5-

Cameras, cinematograph (other than sound

recording cameras) for film of width:-

(1) 16 millimetres

(11) 9.5 millimetres or less

5-

Cinematograph appliances , the following : -

Cinematograph projectors with or without lenses and with or without stands or
pedestals

3 G.A.V.

Arc lamps for cinematograph projectors
Celluloid (cellulose nitrate ) film base, not sensitized , and celluloid sorap and waste

3 G.A.V.

Celluloid (cellulose nitrate ) , not sensitized,
in rolls , other than cinematograph film base

Rate of Duty 20% 20% 20% 25%
25%
331% 40%
3316 3316 10% 10%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1135

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A Metropolitan Territory
PART I Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff (continued)
Division 2
Rates chargeable in accordance with paragraph 2 at the head of this Schedule in relation to Articles listed or provided for in Division 1 .

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

3 XII(2) Articles (1) which consist wholly or partly

of lace or lace net of any kind

or which consist wholly or partly

of material by whatever process

or stitch made which in

appearance or pattern resembles

lace or lace net ; or

25%

(ii) which at any stage of manufacture

have been subjected , as to the

whole or a part thereof , to a

processs of embroidery by hand

or machine needlework or to a

process producing a similar

effect ; or

25%

(iii) which at any stage of manufacture

have been subjected , as to the

whole or a part thereof , to a

process of stiletto work, borer

work, cut work or drawn thread

work, or to a process producing

a similar effect

25%

15546

3 XIII (6) (11) Apparel made wholly or partly of feathers

25%

6-

Articles of apparel (other than stockings and

socks) made wholly or partly of silk or

artificial silk,

(1 ) where the article is made wholly of silk or artificial silk or where the value of the silk or artificial silk component or the aggregate of the values of all such components , as the case may be, exceeds 20 of the aggregate of the values of all the components of the article

(a) where any component is silk
1 The Government of the United Kingdom shall be free to maintain until the 1st September , 1948, the rate in force at the date of this Agreement.

331% or 158. the lb., whichever is
the greater

A1136

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM

Section A.

Metropolitan Territory PART I

Division 2 (continued)

Tariff Itom No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

6-

Articles or apparel (other than stockings and

socks ) made wholly or partly of silk or

artificial silk (continued) :-

(1 ) where the article is made wholly of silk or artificial silk or where the value of the silk or artificial silk component or the aggregate of the values of all such components , as the case may be, exceeds 20% of the aggregate of the values of all the components of the article (continued) :-

(b) where no component is silk
(1) dresses and skirts (other than divided skirts)

30% or 68.9d. x the lb. , whichever is the greater

(11) other

33 % or 78.6d.  the lb. ,
whichever is the greater

(2 ) where the value of the silk or artificial silk component or the aggregate of the values of all such components , as the case may be , exceeds 5% but does not exceed 20% of the aggregate of the values of all the components of the article

(a) where any component is silk
(b) where no component is silk
The Government of the United Kingdom shall be free to maintain until the 1st September , 1948 , the rate in force at the date of this Agreement.

221% or 58. the 1b,, whichever is the greater )
22 % or 28.6d. the lb., whichever is the greater

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1137

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section o Metropolitan Territory
PART I Division 2 (concluded)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Articles of apparel (other than stockings and sooks) made wholly or partly of silk or artificial silk (continued) :-

(3) where the value of the silk or artificial silk component or the aggregate of the values of all such components , as the case may be , does not exceed 5% of the aggregate of the value of all the components of the article

6and
3 XIII(1 )

(a) where any component is silk

1s. the 1b.x
or 20% whichever is the greater

6 and
3 XIII(1 )

(b) where no component is silk

6d. the lb.
or 20% whichever is the greater

DE The Government of the United Kingdom shall be free to maintain until the
1st September , 1948 , the rate in force at the date of this Agreement.

A1138

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART II Preferential Tariff

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

6-

Silk : -

Cocoons and waste of all kinds :-

Undischarged

Wholly or in part discharged other than noils

Noils

RawUndischarged Wholly or in part discharged

Yarn-
Undischarged Wholly or in part discharged not being
noil yarn Noil yarn

Tissues-
Bolting cloth, not treated or operated upon, containing no other fibre than silk

Eastern tissues of the varieties known as Shantung, Ninghai , Nanshan, Honan, Antung and Habutai-
Not dyed or printed

Dyed or printed
Noil TissueContaining less than 10% by weight of silk or of silk and artificial silk

Containing 10% or more by weight of silk or of silk and artificial silk

Rate of Duty
5/6ths of the most-favoured-nation rates shown in Part I of this Schedule

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1139

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM Seotion A Metropolitan Territory
PART II (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group
6-
6-

Description of Products
Silk (continued) :: -Other TissuesUndi schargedContaining less than 10% by weight of silk or of silk and artificial silk
Containing 10% or more by weight of silk or of silk and artificial silk
Wholly or in part dischargedContaining less than 10% by weight of silk or of silk and artificial silk
Exceeding 12 inches in width and containing more than 75% by weight of silk wholly or in part discharged (other than noil) , or of such silk and artificial silk
In other cases
Artificial Silk: -
Waste
Yarn
TissuesContaining less than 10% by weight of artificial silk or of artificial silk and silk
Exceeding 12 inches in width and containing more than 75% by weight of(a) artificial silk, but no discharged or partly discharged silk (other than noil)
(b) artificial silk and wholly or partly discharged silk (other than noil)
Other tissues

Rate of Duty
5/6ths of the most-favourednation rates shown in Part I of this Schedule

A1140

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A Metropolitan Territory
PART II (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

6-

Articles of apparel ( other than stockings and

socks) made wholly or partly of silk or

artificial silk, being articles of apparel

listed or provided for in Division 1 of

Part I of, and paragraph 2 at the head of, this Schedule

(1) where the article is made wholly of silk or artificial silk or where the value of the silk or artificial
silk component or the aggregate of the values of all such components ,
as the case may be , excoeds 20% of the aggregate of the values of all the components of the article

(a) where any component is silk

(1) dresses and skirts (other than divided skirts)
(ii) other
(b) where no component is silk

33%1 or 158. the lb., whichever is the greater
30% or 13s. 6d m the lb., whichever is the greater
30% or 68.9d  the lb., which ever is the greater

(2) where the value of the silk or artificial silk component or the aggregate of the values of all such
components as the case may be , exceeds 5%, but does not exceed 20%, of the aggregate of the values of all the components of the article

(a) where any component is silk

20% or 4s. 6d m the lb., whichever is the
greater

" The Government of the United Kingdom shall be free to maintain until the
1st September, 1948, the rate in force at the date of this Agreement.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A1141

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART II (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group
6-

Description of Products
Articles of apparel (other than stockings and socks) made wholly or partly of silk or artificial silk, being articles of apparel listed or provided for in Division 1 of Part I of, and paragraph 2 at the head of, this Schedule (continued) :-
(2) where the value of the silk or artificial silk component or the aggregate of the values of all such components as the case may be, exceeds 5%, but does not exceed 20%, of the aggregate of the values of all the components of the article (continued) :-
(b) where no component is alk
(3) where the value of the silk or artificial silk component or the aggregate of the values of all such components, as the case may be, does not exceed 5% of the aggregate of the values of all the components of the article
(a) where any component is silk
(b) where no component is silk
22 The Goverment of the United Kingdo shall be free to maintain until the 1st September , 1948 , the rate in force at the date of this Agreement .

Rate of Duty
20% or 2s.34 = . the lb., whichever is the greater
10% or 18. the lb., whichever is greater 10% or 60. the lb., whi ever is the greater

A1142

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section A. Metropolitan Territory
PART II (continued)

Tariff Item No. Part and Croup
6-

Description of Products
Stockings and socks made wholly of silk or containing silk components the value whereof exceeds 20% of the aggregate of the values of all the components thereof
Stockings and socks (containing no silk) made wholly of artificial silk, or containing artificial silk components the value whereof exoeeds 20% of the aggregate of the values of all the components thereof: -
(a) where all the artificial silk consists of regenerated cellulose or cellulose acetate

(b) in other cases

Ex3 VIII (5) Alarm clocks (i) of a value less than 125. each (ii) of a value not less than 12s, each

Ex3 XVII (2) (1) (a) Ex3 XVII (2) (1) (b)
3 XVIII (25) (1) 3 XVIII(25) (11)

Motor vehiales, the following: Motor bicycles and motor tricycles
Agricultural tractors (not including track-laying tractors)
Gramophones with electrical amplification, including radio-gramophones
Gramophone records for reproducing music

Rate of Duty
271% or 10s. I the dozen pairs, whichever is the greater
30% or 6s.9d  the dozen pairs, whichever is the greater 30% or 95. the dozen pairs, whichever is the greater
222/9% 162/ or 25.8d each, whichever is the greater
22%1
15% 137130 231/5

The Government of the United Kingdom shall be free to maintain until the
1st September, 1948, the rate in fores at the date of this Agreement

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A1143

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM Section A, Metropolitan Territory
PART II (concluded)

Tariff Item No. Part and Group

Description of Products

Ex3 XVIII ( 25) (v)

Musical instruments, wind and string, component parts thereof and accessories thereto (other than complete instruments the value of which does not exceed 2s. 6d)

3 Exemptions

Hams, not preserved in airtight containers
NOTE: The quantity of hams permitted to be imported from all sources free of duty shall be not less than 775,000 cwts. a year. In respect of hams not permitted to be imported free of duty, the United Kingdom Government shall be free to charge duty at a rate not exceeding 5d per lb.

3 Exemptions Live cattle

3 G.A. V.

Wheat flour

4

Cheese

4

Condensed milk, whole

Milk powder and other preserved milk (excluding condensed milk ) , not sweetened

The Government of the United Kingdom shall be free to charge the
appropriate qugan duty on smootuned condensed milk.

Rate of Duty
162/3%8 Free
Free Free Free Free Free

*

A1144

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM This Schedule is authentic only in the English language
Soation B. Newfoundland PART I
Most-favoured-Nation Tariff

Newfoundland Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

15 Wheat meal and flour
38 Beef, salted, in barrels
39 Pork, salted , including heads , jowls , tongues , etc. , in barrels or half-barrels
41 Hams and tongues, dry salted or pickled
44 Canned meats , hormetically sealed, known as C.C. beef, corned beef , corned beef hash, boiled beef , luncheon beef , roast beef, roast mutton, boiled mutton and brawn
58 Butter, N.E.S.
76(a) Apples
77 Oranges, melons , pumpkins , lemons , limes, grapes, grapefruit , peachos , pears , plums, apricots, cherries , gooseberries , ourrants, strawberries , pineapples , pomegranates, guava, shaddocks , mangoes , and similar green fruits
78(a) Dried fruits , (other than dates ) ; ourrants and dried raisins , N.E.S.
79 Prunes, figs and fig cake
80(b) Natural-dried sultana type raisins , otherwise known as Natural Thompson's Seedless Raisins , in bulk or in packages
83 Fruit, canned, bottled or otherwise preserved, N.E.S. , including ginger in syrup
Ex 84 Fruit juices
Ex 85 Fruit juices
94 Milk and cream, preserved , sterilized or condensed; and milk powders

Rate of Duty Free Free Freo 34 per lb.
Free 8g per lb. Free
Free 2 per lb. Free
Free 25% Free Free Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1145

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Seotion B. Newfoundland
PART I (continued)

Newfoundland Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

95 Milk foods and like preparations made with or without added sugar or sweetening matter (other than saccharine)
Ex 153 Vegetable juices including tomato juice
216 Wool , viz: the hair of the sheep , goat, camel , alpaca, vicuna, llama and other like animals , raw, washed, scoured or carbonised, and wool tops , noils and waste
305 Iron and steel pipe or tubing and fittings for same , plain or galvanized , riveted, corrugated or otherwise specially manufactured, threaded or coupled and not. Iron and steel wire , N.E.S.
353 Axes , saws of all kinds , N.3.S.; adzes, cleavers , hatohets , hammers and tools of all kinds , edged or not, for hand use, N.E.S. , including bench machines , wedges , sledges , crow-bars , cant-dogs , track tools , picks and eyes , wrenches and pliers of all kinds ; shovels and spades of iron and steel or other metals ; wooden shovels, tool and implement handles of 11 kinds , N.E.S.
354 Anvils, vices , files and rasps, rules of all kinds , N.E.S.; mallets and gauges , smiths' bellows , horse shoes , diamonds for glaziers' use, glass cutters and emery
358 Builders ' , cabinet makers ' , upholsterers ' and trunkmakers ' hardware, including furniture springs , hinges and locks , N.E.S.; screws , commonly called wood screws of iron, steel , brass or other metal (plated or not) and machine and other screws , N.E.S.; traps of iron or other metal , including rat and mouse traps, wholly or partly made of wood

Rate of Duty 10% Free Free 30%
10% 10%
30%

A1146

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM Section B. Newfoundland
PART I (continued)

Newfoundland Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

381 Electric motors and generators , N.E. S. , switchboards and accessories therefor , transformers and accessories therefor, condensers , capacitors , converters , oil circuit breakers , voltage and induction regulators , lightning arresters , auto starters and commutators , motor control apparatus , domestic lighting sets
382 Electric wires and cables , (insulated) , insulators , electric lamps including bulbs and shades , meters , wiring devices such as switches , sockets , porcelain knobs and tubes ; telephone and telegraph instruments , and parts thereof not capable of other use , magnetos and spark plugs
383 Radio receivers and transmitters and parts thereof not capable of other use
Ex 385 Dry cell batteries (single and multiple cell ) , including flashlight batteries
401 Hand and power machinery and duplicate parts thereof , N.E.S. , such as: drilling machines, fan blowers , portable forges , pumps , fire extinguishers , turning lathes , fretsaw machines , scroll saw machines , and dating, ruling , paging and perforating machines , including pens for same , and machinery of a kind not manufactured in Newfoundland , N.E.S. , and welding outfits
402 Office and domestic machinery , N.E. S., and parts thereof
403(a) Elevators , steam and hot water boilers for heating purposes , furnaces and radiators, N.E.S.

Rate of Duty
20%
20% 30% 20%
20% 30% 30%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1147

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM Section B. Newfoundland
PART I (continued)

Newfoundland Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

403(b)

Machinery and parts therefor , such as: wood working and saw mill machinery, steam engines and turbines, gas engines , stationary engines (not marine ) , motor engines, N.E.S. , water wheels and turbines , steam and hot water boilers
for power purposes , horse power machines , hoisting engines , N.E.S. , concrete mixers , rock crushers , cranes and derricks , digging or dredging machines , and grips and buckets therefor

405 Power tractors for agricultural or logging purposes , etc. , and parts therefor

410 Machinery and parts of machinery , N.E.S.
441 Cotton yarn and twist
443 Made up or partly made up articles , except apparel, wholly or mainly of cotton, N.E. S. , such as : quilts, sheets, towels and curtains

Ex 448 Rayon or artificial silk fabrics , in the piece and not made up
460 Leather clothing

463 Men's and youths ' long rubber boots

464 Boots , shoes and slippers for women and children ; such footwear being of leather or imitation leather , and of a value in the
country of exportation of $1.00 or more per pair

467 Hats , Caps , bonnets , and hat, cap and bonnet shapes of any material

471 Gloves and mitts of any materials , N.E.S.

491 Sole leather, in the hide or side

494 Rough, split , undressed leather

Rate of Duty
20% Free 20% Free
35% 20% 4.0% Free
30% 45% 40% 10% 20%

A1148

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section B. Newfoundland PART I (continued)

Newfoundland Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

521 Printing paper and manufactures of paper, N.E. S. , transparent cellulose wrapping paper, writing paper, wrapping paper, toilet paper , blotting paper , sand , glass , flint and emery papers; emery cloth; millboard; strawboard in sheets or rolls; cardboard; ruled , bordered and coated paper papeteries ; paper bags or sacks when not printed upon
Ex 603 Tooth pastes and tooth powders
614 Stationery; printed matter N.E.S.; erasing rubbers of all kinds , sealing wax; mucilage and other liquid gums ; inks for writing ; pencils , pens , penholders and rulers of all kinds ; wire paper clips ; dating stamps ; picture post cards , Christmas and similar cards ; books to be written or drawn upon; blank account books , artists ' paints and colours , and other drawing requisites
M101 Tobacco leaf and stems when imported by licensed manufacturers in bond
M1015 Tobacco leaf stripped , when imported by licensed manufacturers in bond
Ex M1038 Machinery of a kind not manufactured in Newfoundland,
(a) to be used solely for drying , cleaning , packing, manufacturing or refining the products of the fishery; such as presses , drying apparatus , grinding , cutting and skinning machines , presses for oil refining , cod liver oil boilers and patent sealer for use by canners ;
(b) refrigerating machinery;
(a) parts for all the foregoing.
NOTE : The refrigerating machinery referred to in (b) applies only to such machinery used in the holding or processing of products of the Fisheries.

Rate of Duty
45% 50%
4.5% Free Free
Free Free Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1149

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section B. Newfoundland PART I (concluded)

Newfoundland Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

M1041

Mining machinery costing at the place of shipment not less than $100 per machine or piece , ( and not including repair parts, mountings and accessories) , when used solely for prospecting , mining ,
quarrying, oil-boring , pumping and refining and of a land not manufactured in Newfoundland , such as ( a) rock drills ,
1 cutters, power-loaders and powersnovels; (b) pumps of all kinds to be used for pumping water or oil from the workings to the surface; (c) aranes , derricks, hoisting engines, and conveying machinery (not including vehicles and locomotives) ; (d) crushers or other machinery for use in facilitating the refining of coal or ore; (e) special machinery of all kinds to be used in washing, concentrating , reducing and refining goal , are , and oil , or for the manufacture of brick; (f) prospecting
drills of all kinds; miners' diamonds and diamond set bits for diamond drills; (g) oil-boring drills and special machinery for pumping and refining oil ; (h) steam engines, internal combustion engines, electric generators , electric motors, air compressors and steam boilers to be used
for the operation of any of the above mentioned machinery. Chemicals used in the concentration and flotation of cres

M1044

All special paper and pulp-making machinery and mechanical apparatus , when the sams cannot be manufactured in Newfoundland,
both for the original installation and the further extension of the same, but
not in substitution for old, subjeet to the rules and regulations to be made by the Commissioner for Finance

1063

Printing paper when imported by bona fide printers , for the purpose of being printed upon; and bookbinders ' cloth,
leather, marble paper and paper board, when imported by bookbinders and printers for use in bookbinding

Rate of Duty
Free Free 20%

95347 O 49-pt. 5- -73

A1150

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM Section B. Newfoundland PART II Preferential Tariff

Newfoundland Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

38 Beer , salted , in barrels
39 Pork, salted , including heads , jowls , tongues , etc. , in barrels or half barrels
44 Canned meats , hermetically sealed , known as C.C. beef , corned beef, corned beef hash, boiled beef , luncheon beef , roast beef, roast mutton, boiled mutton and brawn
58 Butter , N.E.S.
83 Fruit, canned , bottled or otherwise preserved , N.E.S. , including ginger in syrup
Ex 84 Fruit juices
Ex 85 Fruit juices
Milk and cream, preserved, sterilized or condensed; and milk powders
95 Milk foods and like preparations made with or without added sugar or sweetening matter (other than saccharine)
Ex 153 Vegetable juices including tomato juice
305 Iron and steel pipe or tubing and fittings for same , plain or galvanised , riveted , corrugated or otherwise specially manufactured , threaded or coupled and not. Iron and steel wire , N.E.S.
Ex 385 Dry cell batteries (single and multinle cell) , including flashlight batteries
443 Made up or partly made up articles , except apparel, wholly or mainly of cotton, K.E.S. , such as: quilts , sheets , towels and ourtains
Ex 448 Rayon or artificial silk fabrics , in the piece and not made up

Free Free
Free 7 per lb. 15% Free Free Free Free Free
20% 20%
30% 15%

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1151

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section B. Newfoundland PART II (concluded)

Howfoundland Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

460 Leather clothing

30%

464 Boots , shoes and slippers for women and children; such footwear being of leather or imitation leather, and of a value in the
country of exportation of $1.00 or more per pair

* 555

467 Hats, caps , bonnets , and hat , cap and bonnet

shapes of any material

40%

471 Gloves and mitts of any materials N. E.S.

40%

494 Rough, split, undressed leather

10%

521 Printing paper and manufactures of paper, N.E.S.

transparent cellulose wrapping paper,

writing paper, wrapping paper , toilet paper,

blotting paper , sand, glass , flint and emery papers ; amery cloth; mill-board; strawboard

in sheets or rolls; cardboard ; ruled , bordered and coated paper papeteries; paper

bags or sacks when not printed upon

35%

Ex 603 Tooth pastes and tooth powders

40%

614 Stationery; printed matter N.E.S.; erasing

rubbers of all kinds , sealing wax; mucilage

and other liquid gums ; inks for writing ;

pencils, pens , penholders and rulers of all

kinds ; wire paper clips; dating stamps ;

picture post cards , Christmas and similar

oards; books to be written or drawn upon;

blank account books, artists' paints and

colours, and other drawing requisites

35%

A1152

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX · UNITED KINGDOM
This Schedule is authentic only in the English language
Section C. Dependent territories of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
PART I
Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff
1. In each of the territories (except Ceylon) named in Schedule III of the Trade Agreement between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, signed November 17, 1938, the margin of proference , if any, on any product listed in that Schedule in respect of such territory, shall not exosed three-fourths of that existing on April 10, 1947, or 2%5 ad valorem (or a margin of specific or other duties equivalent to 25% ad valorem) , whichever margin is the smaller, Provided that this undertaking shall not require the reduction of the margin of preference on any product to less than 2 ad valorem (or a margin of specific or other duties equivalent to 2% ad valorem) . The Government of the United Kingdom , in association with the Government of the territory concerned , will, if requested, consult with regard to the implementation of this undertaking with any contracting party having a substantial interest in any product concerned, and, should it prove impossible in any particular case to give effect to the reduction in a margin of preference required by this undertaking, will agree on measures designed to provide an equitable solution.
2. The reductions of preference provided for in paragraph 1, above, shall come into effect at the earliest practicable date and in any event not later than December 31 , 1949 , but may be made inoperative during the whole of any calendar year which immediately succeeds a calendar year in which the quantity of general purpose synthetic rubber required to bo consumed in the United States of America under internal quantitative regulations applied pursuant to paragraph  of Article III of this Agreement exceeds 25% of the total consumption in the United States of America of natural , synthetic and reclaimed rubber.
PART II
Preferential Tariff
Nil

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1153

SCHEDULE XIX UNITED KINGDOM This Schedule is authentic only in the English language
Section D. Malayan Union PART I
Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff

Malayan Union Tariff Item No.

Description of Product

Rate of Duty

Export Duties
Ex III (Minerals,
etc. ):-

Tin ore and tin concentrates
NOTE : The products comprised in the above itom shall be assessed for auty on the basis of their tin content ; the rate to be levied on such tin content being the same as the rate chargeable on smelted tin, Provided that the rate of duty on this item may expoed the rate chargeable on smelted tin in the event that and so long as the Government of the United States of America subsidises directly or indirectly the smelting of tin in the United States.

PART II Preferential Tariff
Nil .

A1154

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM This Schedule is authentic only in the English Language
Section E. Palestine PART I
Most-Favoured-Nation-Tariff

Palo stino Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

BEVERAGES Spirits, including Idqueurs, Cordials,
Mixtures and other preparations ontaining spirits :94 Brandy Cognao 96 Raam 98 Other Idqueurs, Cordials, Mixtures and other
preparations containing spirits:-
(a) In bottles not exceeding 25 centilitres (b) In bottles exceeding 25 centilitres and
not exceeding 40 centilitres (c) In bottles exceeding 40 centilitres and
not exceeding 80 centilitres
(a) In bottles exceeding 80 centilitres
(e) In containers other than bottles 100 Champagne : -
(a) In bottles not exceeding 25 centilitres
(b) In bottles excecding 25 centilitres and not exceeding 40 centilitres
(c) In bottles exceeding 40 centilitres and not exceeding 80 centilitres
(a) In bottles exceeding 80 centilitres
303 Glassware , domestic and fancy Ex 531 Flax and Linen Thread
532 Linen Tissues and Manufactures, not elsewhere specified

(1) The margin between the existing import rates and the Excise duty of 540 dls per litre of Jalochol on similar spirits markfactured in Palostine shall not be increased.
(11) The import duty on these items shall be the same as the duty on imported whisky and gin.
60 mila per bottle
90 mils per bottle
180 mils per bottle
24,0 mils per litre
23% ad val.
20% ad val.
20% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1155

SCHEDULE XIX - UNITED KINGDOM Section E. Palestine PART I (concluded)

Palestine Tariff Item No.

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

595 Drugs, raw and prepared, other than the following antimalaria drugs, and drugs not elsewhere specified : -

23% ad val.

Quinine and its salts , other alkaloids of cinchona i.e. cinchonidine , cinchonine and quinitine and their respective salts. Totaquina i.e. total alkaloids of cinchona. Plasmoquine, compound plasmoquine , quinoplasmine, atebrine , quiniostovarsol

Exempt

638 Paper for packing citrus fruit : -

(a) In rolls of not less than 3,000 square meters each

Exempt

(b) In sheets 45 x 60 centimeters

Exempt

PART II Preferential Tariff
Nil.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A1157

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA This Schedule is authentic only in the English language Part I Most-Favored-Nation Tariff
(See general notes at the end of this Schedule. )
Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1

Acids and acid anhydrides :

Acetic acid containing by weight of acetio aoid :

Not more than 65 per centum .. More than 65 per centum ........ Acetic anhydride ..... Tannio acid, tannin , and extracts of nutgalls , containing by weight of tannic acid:
Less than 50 per centum 50 per centum or more and not medicinal 50 per centum or more and medicinal Oleic acid or red oil ........
Carbon dioxide , weighing with immediate containers and carton, one pound or less per carton ....

1/26 per lb. 3/46 per lb. 1-3/46 per lb.
2-1/2 per lb. 5-1/2 per lb. 9 per lb. 10% ad val. 16 per lb. on
contents, immediate oontainers, and carton

Acids and acid anhydrides not specially provided for : Stearic acid Fatty alcohols and fatty acids , sulphated

12-1/2% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val.

2

Vinyl acetate, polymerized or unpolymerized, and 1-1/2 per lb.

synthetic resins made in chief value therefrom ,

and 7-1/2%

not specially provided for

ad val.

Alcohol : Amyl, butyl, hexyl, and propyl , all the foregoing whether primary , secondary, or terti............... Fusel oil ..................... . Ethyl for nonbeverage purposes only ......

36 per lb. 36 per lb. 7-1/26 per gal.

1 [46 Stat. 590; 19 U. S. C. § 1001 ET SEQ..

A1158

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

523

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued )

Tariff
Aot of
1930, paragraph

Desoription of Products

Rate of Duty

5 and 23
5 and 23

Fatty alcohols and fatty acids , sulphated, and salts of sulphated fatty acids ; eucalyptol; vitamins; medicinal preparations of animal origin not otherwise provided for in this item; ammonium sulphocyanate or thiocyanate; barium
compounds (except barium sulphide ) ; magnesium salts and compounds ; potash salts ; selenium dioxide ; and tellurium compounds ; all the fore going, not specially provided for, whether or not in any form or container specified in paragraph 23, Tariff Act of 1930 ......
Haarlem oil, whether or not in any form or container specified in paragraph 23 , Tariff Act of 1930 ....

12-1/2% ad vals 7-1/2% ad val

Sodium alginate ....

20% ad val.

5

Laundry sour containing not less than 20 per centur

of sodium silicofluoride and not less than 10

per centum of oxalic acid, not specially provided

for

15% ad val,

5

Ammonium silicofluoride

10% ad val.

6

Aluminum hydroxide or refined bauxite ..

1/4 per lb.

6

Aluminum sulphate ...

1/10/ per lb.

6

Aluminum salts and compounds not specially provided

for .......

12-1/2 ad val,

7

Ammonium carbonate and bicarbonate

1/2 per lb.

7

Ammonium chloride

7

Ammonium nitrate

5/86 per lb. 1/24 por lb.

7

Ammonium perchlorate

14 por lb.

7

Liquid anhydrous ammonia

1-1/46 por lb.

Antimony : Oxide ....
Sulphides , not specially provided for

16 per lb. 1/2 per lb. and
12-1/2% ad velo

.



61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1159

133

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

10

Balsams : Copaiba and fir or Canada , natural and

uncompounded, and not containing alcohol

5% ad val.

11

Synthetic resins made in chief value from vinyl

1-1/24 per lb.

acetate, not specially provided for ......

and 7-1/2% od vale.

Blackings , powders , liquids , and areams for cleaning or polishing, not specially provided for, and not containing alcohol

7-1/2% ad val.

4242 2 2 2 2

15

Caffeine .....

60% per lb.

15

Caffeine citrate ...

50% per lb.

15

Compounds of caffeine .

17% ad val.

15

Theobromine

40% per lb.

16

Caloium carbide ....

1/2 per lb.

16

Calcium acetate , crude ...

1/4 per lb.

18

Trichloroethylene .....

10% ad val.

20

Chalk or whiting or Paris white :

Dry, ground, or bolted

Precipitated

1/10% per lb. 10% ad val.

Ground in oil (putty)

1/46 per lb.

Put up in the form of cubes , blocks , sticks ,

or disks , or otherwise , including tailors ' ,

billiard, red, and manufactures of chalk

not specially provided for ......

12-1/2% ad val.

23

23

(See items 5. )

24

Medicinal compounds , preparations , mixtures , and

solts :

Containing 20 per centum of alcohol or less .. 20% per lb. and

12-1/2% ad val.

Containing more than 20 per centum and not

40% per lb. and

more than 50 per centum of alcohol .......

12-1/2 ad vel.

Containing more than 50 per centum of alcohol 80% per lb. and

12-1/2% ad val.

A1160

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

24

Flavoring extracts, and natural or synthetic fruit

flavors , fruit esters , oils and essences , 8ll

the foregoing and their combinations :
Containing 20 per centum of alcohol or less

Containing more than 20 per centum and not
more than 50 per centum of alcohol
Containing more than 50 per centum of alcohol ...............

Rate of Duty
156 per lb. and 18% ad val,
30 per lb. and 18% ad val.
60% per lb. and 18% ad val.

Provided, That , whenever the foregoing products are subject to a Federal tax on the alcoholio content measured in whole or in part by the rate of an internal Federal
tax imposed in respect of the alcohol contained in the like domestic products , the
specific parts of the foregoing rates shall be reduced from 15, 30, and 60 cents to 7-1/2, 15, and 30 cents , respectively, and the ad valorem parts thereof shall be reduced in each case to 10 per centum ad valorem.

26

Chloral hydrate

26

Thymol obtained or derived from eucalyptus oil ...

27(a) Phthalic anhydride and

20% ad val.
17-1/2% ad val. 20% ad val. and
3-1/26 per lb.

27(a) Naphthalene which after the removal of all water

(1 ) and present has a solidifying point of seventy-nine

(5)

degrees centigrade or above .....

10% ad val. and 1-3/46 per lb.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1161

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of 1930, peragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

27(a ) All distillates (except those provided for in suband paragraph (b) of paragraph 27, Tariff Act of
1930) of coal tar, blast-furnace tar, oil-gas tar, and water-gos tar, which on being subjected to distillation yield in the portion distilling below one hundred and ninety degrees centigrade a quantity of tar acids equal to or more than 5 per centum of the original distillate or which on
being subjected to distillation yield in the portion distilling below two hundred and fifteen degrees centigrade a quantity of tar acids equal
to or more than 75 per centum of the original distillate :
Metaoresol, orthooresol, and parsoresol, all the foregoing having a purity of 75 par oentum or more, but less than 90 per centum , and metaparacresol having a purity of 75 per centum or more ...
Other .....

10% ad val. and 1-3/46 per lb.
20% ad val. and 3-1/26 per lb.

27(b) Metacresol, orthoaresol , and paracresol, all the foregoing having a purity of 90 per centum or more .........

10% ad val. and 1-3/4 per lb.

27(b) Cresylic acid which on being subjected to distillation yields in the portion distilling below two hundred and fifteen degrees centigrade a quantity of tor acids equal to or more than 75 per oentum of the original distillate .................

28(a)

Saccharin; and pioric acid, trinitrotoluene, and other explosives except smokeless powders ; all the foregoing when obtained, derived, or manufactured in whole or in part from any of the products provided for in paragraph 27 or 1651, Tariff Act of 1930

10% ad val. and 1-3/46 per lb.
22-1/2% ad val. and 3-1/26 per lb.

29 Cobalt: Oxide
Sulphate ....... Linoleate .......

......

10% per lb. 5 per lb. 10p per lb.

Al162

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX -UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

31(a) Cellulose acetate, and compounds , combinations , or (1)and mixtures containing cellulose acetate :
In blocks, sheets, rods , tubes , powder, flakes, briquets , or other forms, whether of not colloided , and waste wholly or in chiuf value of cellulose acetate , all the
foregoing not made into finished or partly finished articles ......
Made into finished or partly finished articles of which any of the foregoing is the component material of chief value , and not specially provided for ......
31(b) All compounds of cellulose ( except cellulose aoe(1)and tate , but including pyroxylin and other ocllu-
lose esters and ethers ) , and all compounds , combinations , or mixtures of which any such compound is the component material of ohief value :
In blooks . sheets ( inoluding transparent sheets more than three one-thousandths of one inch and not more than thirty-two onethousandths of one inch in thickness ) , rods, tubes , powder , flakes , briquets , or other forms, whether or not colloided, not made into finished or partly finished articles : Pyroxylin, and compounds , combinations , or mixtures of which pyroxylin is the component material of chief value ..... Other ...........
Finished or portly finished articles not specially provided for, made in chief value from transparent sheets, bands , or strips not more than three one- thousandths of one inch in thickness .....

25 per lb. 20% ad val.
25% por lb. 30 per lb. 50, ad val.

333

Compounds of oasein , known as galalith, or by any other name :
In blocks, sheets , rods , tubes , or other forms , not imod into finished or partly finished articles
Made into finished or partly finished articles of which any of the foregoing is the oomponent material of chief value not
specially provided for

12-1/2 per lb.
20 per lb. and 25% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1163

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

34 Drugs, such as barks, beans, berries , buds , bulbs ,

bulbous roots , excrescences, fruits, flowers ,

dried fibers , dried insects , grains , herbs ,

leaves, lichens , mosses , roots, stems , vege tables , seeds ( romotio, not garden seeds ) , seeds of morbid growth, woods , and all other drugs of vegetable or animal origin (except

halibut-liver oil); any of the foregoing which are natural and uncompounded drugs and not

edible, and not specially provided for, but which are advanced in value or condition by

shredding, grinding, chipping, crushing, or any other process or treatment whatever beyond that

essential to the proper pooking of the drugs and the prevention of decay or deterioration pending manufacture, and not containing alcohol ........

5% ad val.

35 Ipecac and maté , natural and uncompounded , but ad-

vanced in value or condition by shredding,

grinding, ohipping, crushing, or any other prooess or treatment whatover beyond that essential

to proper packing and the prevention of decay or

deterioration pending manufacture , not contain-

ing alcohol

5% ad val.

37 Ethers and esters , not containing over 10 per centum of alcohol :
Ethyl acetate
Butyl acetate ............................................................ Amyl acetate .......

1-1/26 per lb. 3-1/24 per lb. 26 per lb.

38 Extroots , dyeing and tanning, not containing

alcohol :

Cutoh, fustio , mangrove , myrobalan, Persian

berry, sumao, saffron, safflower, soffron

oa ko , and wattle

.......... 7-1/2% od vel.

Logwood ............

10% ad val.

Extracts , decoctions , and proporations of

vegetable origin used for dyeing, coloring,

staining, or tanning, not specially pro-

vided for ....

7-1/2 ad val.

35

A1164

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

 

SCHEDULE XX -UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued )

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

39 Flavoring extracts and natural or synthetic fruit flavors, fruit esters, oils, and essenoeg, all tho foregoing not containing alcohol, and not specially provided for
40 Hexamethylenetetramine

41 Edible gelatin: Volued at less than 40 cents per pound

Valued at 40 cents or more but not moro than 80 per pound .......



41 Gelatin, not specially provided for, valued at less than 40 cents per pound
41 Glue, not specially provided for , valued at less than 40 cents per pound : of vegetable origin
Of animal origin ...



41 Glue size and fish glue , not specially provided for, valued at less than 40 cents per pound ...
41 Gelatin, glue, glue sizo , and fish glue, not specially provided for, valued at 40 cents or more per pound .......
41 Peotin ..
41 Isinglass .....
41 Manufactures , wholly or in chief value of gelatin, glue, or glue size ...
42 Glycerin: Crude ......... Refined .........
43 Writing and copying ink

Rate of Duty
10% ad val. 5-1/24 per lb.
10% ad val. and 2-1/26 per lb.
10% ad val. and 3-1/26 per lb.
10% ad val. and 1-1/4 per lb.
12-1/2% ad val. and 16 por lb.
10% ad val. ond 2-1/26 per lb.
7-1/2% ad val. and 1/24 por lb.
12-1/2% ad vel. and 4 per lb.
25% ad val. 25% ad vol.
15% ad val.
4/106 per lb. 16 per lb. 10% ad val.

135

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1165

tto

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

46

Lead compounds not specially provided for .....

48

Lime, citrate of ....

48

Juice of lemons , limes , oranges , or other oqitrous

fruits, unfit for beverage purposes .....

49

Magnesium carbonate , precipitated ......

49

Magnesium oxide or calcined magnesia .....

50

Manganese: Borate , resinate , and manganese com-

pounds and salts, not specially provided for ...

50

Manganese sulphate ..

51

Menthol

52

Oils, animal and fish:

Sed

.........

Herring ................................. Menhaden ......................

.............

Whale and seal .................................................................

Sperm, arude ...........................................

Sperm, refined or otherwise processed

Spermaceti wax Woel grease:

Containing more than 2 per centum of free fatty acids ...

Containing 2 per centum or less of free

fatty acids and not suitable for medicinal use .........

Suitable for medicinal use, including adeps lanae , hydrous or anhydrous ....

Animal and fish oils , fats, and greases , not

specially provided for: Shark oil and shark-liver oil , including

oil produced from sharks known as deg-

Inedible animal oils, fats, and greases (except marine-animal oils, and neatsfect oil and animal eils known
as neatsfoot stock)

Rate of Duty
15% ad valo 3-1/26 per lb.
1-1/46 per lb. 1/26 per lb. 2-1/26 per lb.
20% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val. 40% per lb.
36 per gal. 1-1/4 per gal. 2-1/26 per gal. 3 per gal. 1-1/4 per gal. 3-1/2 per gal. 2-1/26 per 1b,.
1/2 per lb.
16 per lb. 26 per lb.
% ad val.
10% ad val.

95347 0-49-pt. 5- -74

A1166

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Desoription of Products

Rate of Duty

53 Oils, vegetable : Castor ................................
Poppy seed ........ Expressed or extraoted oils, not specially
provided for : Kapok seed ... ..... Corn or maize

1-1/26 per lb. 16 per lb.
10% ad val. 3 per lb. , but
not less than 10% nor more than 20% ad val.

54 Coconut oil

16 per lb.

NOTE : The United States reserves the right to modify the rate of duty applicable to any product described in this Schedule in respect of which an internal tax is provided for in section 2470, Internal Revenue Code , as amended , ' to commensate for any reduction or termination of such internal tax, but in no case shall the duty, or duty and internal tax in the aggregate , imposed ir respect of any such article exceed an arount equal to the duty provided for in this Schedule plus an amount which is compensatory for any such reduction or elimination .

54 Cottonseed oil 54 Peanut oil .... 54 Palm-kernel oil 54 Sesame oil

3 per lb. 36 per lb. 1/26 par lb. 24 per lb.

[53 Stat. 264; 26 U. S. C. § 2470.]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30 , 1947

A1167

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paratraph

Description of Products

54

Soy-bean oil

99

58

Oils, distilled or essential, not mixed or com-

pounded with or containing alcohol : Grapefruit and orange ................. Eucalyptus and clove ..... Peppermint, derived from mentha arvensis;

and patchouli Sandalwood .........

Essential and distilled oils not specially provided for : Cornmint ...

Other

60

Perfume materials , not containing over 10 per

gentum of alcohol:

Ambergris , and musk grained or in pods

Geraniol, not mixed and not compounded, and not specially provided for ..........

Natural or synthetio odoriferous or aromatic

ohemicals , not mixed and not compounded,

and not specially provided for : Hydroxycitronellal

Other ( except linalyl acetate ) All mixtures or combinations containing es-

sential or distilled oils , or natural or synthetio odoriferous or aromatic substanoes ....

61

Perfumery, including cologne and other toilet

waters , articles of perfumery, whether in sach-

ets or otherwise , and all preparations used as

applications to the hair, mouth, teeth, or skin ,

such as cosmetics , dentifrices , tooth soaps ,

pastes , theatrical grease paints , pomades , pow-

ders , and other toilet preparations , all the

foregoing : If containing alcohol .....

If not containing aloohol

Rate of Duty
3 per lb. , but not less then 22-1/2% ad val.
12-1/2% ad val. 7-1/2% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val. 10% ad val.
12-1/2% ad val. 7-1/2% ad val.
10% ad val. 15% ad val.
15% ad val. 30, ad val.
30% per lb. and 20% ad val.
30% per lb. and 20% ad val.
20% ad val.

A1168

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued )

Tariff Aot of
1930, peragraph

Desoription of Products

Rate of Duty

61 Bath salts : If not perfumed

15% ad val.

If perfumed (whether or not having medicinal properties ) ......

20%, ad val.

62 Floral or flower waters containing no alcohol, not

specially provided for ......

5% ad val.

62 Bay rum or bay water, whether distilled or compounded ......

20p per lb. and 30% ad val.

64 Plasters , healing or curative , of all kinds, and courtplaster

10% ad val.

65( ) Paints , colors, and pigments , commonly known as

artists ' , school, students ' , or children's paints

(3), and(4)

or colors : In tubes, jars , oakes , pans , or other forms, not exceeding one and one-half pounds net

weight each, and valued at 20 cents or more

per dozen piccos , and not assembled in peint

sets , kits , or oolor outfits :

In tubes or jars

In cakes , pans, or other forms

In tubes , jars , cakes , pans , or other forms, not exceeding one and one-half pounds net weight eaoh, when assemblod in paint sets , kits , or color outfits , with or without brushes, water pans , outline drawings, stenoils , or other articles .........................................
In bulk, or in any form exceeding one and onehalf pounds net weight each .........................

26 per tube or Jar and 12-1/2% ad val.
1-1/4 per cake, pan, or other form and 12-1/2% ad val.
50% ad val. on the value as assembled
2-1/26 per os.

66 Colors, stains , and paints , including enamel

paints, whether dry, mixed, or ground in or mixed

with water, oil, or solutions other than ail, not

apecially provided for .....

12-1/2% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT . 30, 1947

A1169

896

SCHELULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

67 Barytes ore, orude or unmanufactured

$3.50 per ton.

68 Blue pigments and all blues containing iron ferro-

cyanide or iron ferricyanide , in pulp, dry, or

ground in or mixed with oil or water

5 per lb.

68 Ultramarine blue , dry, in pulp, or ground in or mixed with oil or water, wash and all other

bluos containing ultramarine; all the foregoing,

regardless of value

2-1/26 per lb.

69 Decolorizing, deodorizing, or gas-absorbing chars

and carbons, whether or not activated, and all

aotivated chars and carbons ....

25% ad val.

71 Gas black, including carbon black, and acetylene

black, dry or ground in or mixed with oil or

water, and not specially provided for .....

5% ad val.

72 Lead pigments : Litharge

2-1/46 per lb.

Orange mineral

24 per lb.

Red lead

1-7/86 per lb.

White lead

2-1/106 per lb.

All pigments containing lead, dry or in pulp,

or ground in or mixed with oil or water,

not specially provided for : In chief value of suboxide of lead

36 per lb. , but

not less than

15% nor more

than 30% od vol.

Other

20% ad val.

73 Ochers , washed or ground

1/8 per lb.

73 Umbers : Crude or not ground ..... Washed or ground .......

1/16 per lb. 3/166 per lb.

73 Synthetic iron-oxide and iron-hydroxide pigments

not specially provided for

15% ad val.

75

A1170

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of 1930 , paraTaph

Description of Products

75 Spirit varnishes : Containing less than 5 per centum of methyl aloohol ......

Containing 5 per oentum or more of methyl alcohol .....

75 Varnishes , including so-called gold size or japan, not specially provided for ........
76 Cuprous oxide .....

77 Zino oxide and leaded zinc oxides containing not more than 25 per centum of lead : In any form of dry powder ...... Ground in or mixed with oil or water

77 Lithopone, and other combinations or mixtures of zinc sulphide and barium sulphate : Containing by weight less than 30 per centum of zinc sulphida
Containing by weight 30 per centum or more of sino sulphide

78 Potassium : Ferricyanide or red prussiate of potash ... Ferrooyanide or yellow prussiate of potash ... Permanganate .......
80 Soap, toilet : Valued at 20 cents or less per pound Valued at more than 20 cents per pound ....
80 Soap and soap powder , not spocially provided for

Rate of Duty
$1.10 per gal and 12-1/2% ad val.
10% ad val.
10% ad val. 17-1/2% ad val.
3/5 per lb. lé per lb.
7/8 per lb. 7/86 per lb. and
7-1/2% ad val.
3-1/26 per lb. 36 per lb. 66 per lb.
15% ad val 10% ad val. 10% ad val.

80 90

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1171

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued )

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

81 Sodium: Carbonate , calcined, or soda ash ... Chlorate Chloride or salt :
In bags , sacks , barrels , or other packages ......
In bulk .... Chromate and dichromate
Ferrocyanide or yellow prussiate of soda Silicofluoride

Rate of Duty
1/4 per lb. 3/4 per lb.
3-1/2 per 100 lb.
2 per 100 lb. 1-3/46 per lb. 1-1/26 per lb. 3/40 per lb.

82 69

82 Sodium hydrosulphite , hydrosulphite compounds ,

sulphoxylate compounds , and all combinations and

mixtures of the foregoing

35% ad val.

83 Potato starch .....

1 per lb.

83 Starches not specially provided for : Rice and wheat
Other

1 per lb. 3/4 per lb.

84 Dextrine, made from potato starch or potato flour;

dextrine , not otherwise provided for , burnt

starch or British gum, dextrine substitutes , and

soluble or chemically treated starch

.... 1-1/46 per lb.

89 Titanium potassium oxalate, and all compounds and

mixtures containing titanium

15 ad val.

92 Vanilla beans .....

156 per lb.

93 Zino chloride

3/4 per lb.

96 Dynamite and other high explosives , put up in

sticks , cartridges , or other forms , suitable for

blasting

3/4 per lb.

A1172

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued )

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

201(a) Bath briok, not specially provided for ...

201 (a ) Fire brick, not specially provided for

201(a) Magnesite brick

201(b) Brick, not specially provided for, not glazed, enameled, painted, vitrified, ornamented, or deco-
rated in any manner ......

Rate of Duty
7-1/2% ad val. 6-1/4, ad val. 3/8 per lb. and
5 ad val.
$1 per 1000

202(a) Floor and wall tiles not wholly or in part of oement, however provided for in paragraph 202(a ), Tariff Aot of 1930 : Valued at not more than 40 cents per square foot : Quarries or quarry tiles not less than 5/8 inch in thickness .....
Other
Provided, That so long as a rate of duty prescribed in Part II of this Schedule for ceramic mosaic tiles valued at not more than 40 cents per square foot is in effect , tiles of such description shall not be dutiable under this item at more than such Part II rote plus the absolute difference between the preferential and most-favored-nation rates of duty existing in respect of such tiles on April 10, 1947.

5 per sq.ft. , but not less than 15% nor more than 70% ad val.
10 per sq.ft. , but not less
than 30% nor more than 70% od val.

Valued at more than 40 cents pur square foot : Quarries or quarry tiles not less than
5/8 inch in thickness ......................... Other

15% ad vol. 30% od val.

203 Limestone (not suitable for use as monumental or

building stone ), arude , or crushed but not pul- 1-1/46 per 100

verized ...··

lb.

203 Limo, not specially provided for

2-1/24 per 100 lb. , including the weight of the container

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1173

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of 1930,
peragraph

Description of Products

203

Hydrated lime

Rato of Duty
3 per 100 lb. , including the weight of the container

204

Crude magnesite

204

Caustic paloined magnesite............

205(a) Plaster rook or gypsum, ground or calcined ...

205(b) Roman, Portland, and other hydraulic cement or

cement clinker ......

...

15/64 per lb.
15/326 per lb.
$1.40 per ton
2-1/46 per 100 lb., inolading the weight of the amtainer

205(b) White nonstaining Portland cement ...

36 per 100 lb. , including the weight of the container

205(a) Cement , not specially provided for

5% ad val.

205(e) Statues, statuettes , and bas-reliefs, wholly or in

chief value of plaster of Paris, not specially

provided for

15% ad val.

207

Clays earths, including common blue olay and

Gross-Almerode glass pot clay, not specially

provided for:

Unwrought and unmanufactured ......

$1 per ton

Wrought or manufactured

$2 per ton

207

Bentonite :

Unwrought and unmanufactured .....

Wrought or manufactured

75% per ton $1.625 per ton

207

China clay or kaolin

$1.25 per ton

207

Crude feldspar .....

25 per ton

A1174

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

207 Beuxite , crude , not refined or otherwise advanced in condition in any manner

207 Fuller's earth :
Unwrought and unmanufactured Wrought or manufactured .....

207 Sand containing 95 per centum or more of silica and not more than six-tenths of 1 per centum of oxide of iron and suitable for use in the manufacture of glass

208 (a) Mica, unmanufactured : Valued at not above 15 cents per pound Valued at above 15 cents per pound ......

208 (o)

Mica films and splittings , not cut or stamped to dimensions :
Not above twelve ten-thousandths of one inch in thickness .......
Over twelve ten-thousandths of one inch in thickness .....

208 (d) Mica films and splittings cut or stamped to dimensions ........

208( e)

Mica plates and built-up mica, and all manufactures of mica , or of which mica is the component material of chief value , by whatever name known, and to whatever use applied , and whether or not named , described , or provided for in any paragraph of the Tariff Aet of 1930 other than paragraph 208 ........

208(f) Untrimmed phlogopite mica from which no rectangu-
lar piece exceeding two inches in length or one inch in width may be cut .........

208(g) Mice waste and scrap valued at not more than 5 cents per pound

208(h) Mica, ground or pulverized

Rete of Duty
50 per ton 50 per ton $1 per ton
50 per ton 4 per lb. 2 per lb. and
15% ad val.
12-1/2% ad val . 20% ad val . 22-1/2% ad val,
25% ad val.
5% ad val . 15% ad val . 15% ad val .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1175

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph

Description of Products

209 Talc, steatite or soapstone , and French ohalk , crude and unground ...

209 Talc , steatite or soapstone , ground , washed, pow-
dered, or pulverized (except toilet prepara¬ tions) , valued at not more than $14 per ton ....

209 Manufactures (except toilet preparations) , af which talc , steatite or soapstone , or French chalk is the component material of chief value , wholly or partly finished, and not specially provided for : If not decorated If decorate d .....

210 Stoneware and earthenware crucibles , whether or not ornamented , incised , or decorated in any manner, not specially provided for ...

210 Rockingham earthenware

Rate cf Duty
1/86 per lb.
10% ad val.
17-1/2 ad val. 22-1/2% ad val.
10% ad val. 20% per doz.
articles , but not less than 7-1/2% nor more than 25% ad val.

A1176

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of 1930, paragraph
211

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Barthenware and orockery ware composed of a nonvitrified absorbent body not wholly of clay, including white granite and semiporcelain earthenrare, and crean-colored ware, terra cotta , and shneware; any of the foregoing which are tableware, kitchenware , or table or kitchen utensils , painted, colored, tinted , stained , enameled , gilded, printed, namented , or decorated in any manner : Plates, not over 6-5/8 inches in diameter and valued at 75 cents or mere per dozen , or
over 6-5/8 but not over 8-1/8 inches in diameter and valued at 90 cents or
more per dozen, er over 8-1/8 but not over 9-1/8 inches
in diameter and valued at $1.30 or more per dozen , cr
over 9-1/8 inches in diameter and valued at $1.55 or more per do zen;
cups valued at $1 or more per dozen; and
saucers valued at 55 cents or more ¡ er dozen ;
all the foregoing .....
Other tableware , kitchenware , and table and kitchen utensils , valued at $2 or mare per dozen

10% per doz. pieces and 20% ad val.
10% per dos. pieces and 25% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1177

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (ontinued)

Tariff Act of 1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

212 China, porcelain , and other vitrified wares
(except sanitary ware , chemical porcelain ware, and chemical stoneware) , composed of a vitrified nonabsorbent body which when broken shows a vitrified or vitreous , or scmivitrified or semivitreous fracture , and all bisque and parian wares, including clock cases withoor without
movements , plaques , pill tilos, ornaments , charms, vases , statues , statuettes , mugs , cups , steins , lamps , and all other articles composed wholly or in chief value of such ware , plain white , not painted , colored , tinted, stained, onameled, gilded, printed , or ornamented or decorated in any manner, and manufactures in ohief value of such ware , not specially provided for :
Tableware, kitchenware , and table and kitchen utensile, contining 25 pr antun or more of oulciaca boad .....

Electrical porcelain ware , and fittings and parts for sanitary ware ...........
Other (except tableware , kitchenware , and table and kitchen utensils) : Containing 25 per centum or more of calained bone .....
Net containing 25 per centum or more of calcined bone ......

Rate of Duty
30% ad val , but not less than 5 per dos. and 25% ad val.
35% ad val.
25% ad val. 40 per dos. ,
but not loss than 40% nor more than 60% ad val .

NOTE : The term " doz . " in the specifications of rates of duty in this and the following item 212 means "dozen separate pieces . "

A1178

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

212 Articles of the kinds provided for in the preceding item which are painted, colored , tinted, stained, enameled, gilded, printed, or ornamented or decorated in any mamer, and manu--

factures in chief value of such ware , net

specially provided for : Tableware, kitchenware , and table and kitchen
utensils, containing 25 per centum or mere of calcined bone .........
Tableware , kitchenware , and table and
kitchen utensils , not containing 25 per centum or more of calcined bone and not
hotel er restaurant ware or utensils:
Plates, not over 6-5/8 inches in diameter and valued at more than

35% ad val. , but not less
than 56 per doz. and 30% ad val.

$2.55 but not more than $ per doren , or
over 6-5/8 but not over 7-7/8 inches in diameter and valued at more than $3.45 but not more than

$5.40 per dozen, or over 7-7/8 but not over 9-1/8
inches in diameter and valued at

more than $5 but not more than $8 per dozen, or
over 9-1/8 inches in diameter and valued at more than $6 But not mova

than $9.75/per dosen; oups, valued at more than $4.45
but not more than $7 per dosen; saucers, valued at more than

$1.90 but not more than $3 per dosen; and .
other tableware , kitchenware, and table and kitchen utensils (except plates, oups, and saucers), valued at more than $11.50 but not mora
than $18 per dozen; all the foregoing

10% per dor. and 45% ad val.

Plates of the diameters specified above, cups , saucers, and other wares and utensils; each of the foregoing which is valued at more than the
maximum value specified above for the like article ........

106 per dos. and 35% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1179

SCHEDUTE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paraGraph

Description of Products

22.2 Artioles of the kinds etc.: ( continued)

oon.

Electrical porcelain ware, and fittings and

parts for sanitary ware . ............... .

Other (except hotel and restaurant tableware and kitchenware and hotel and restaurant

table and kitchen utensils ) :

Containing 25 por contum or more of oaloined bone ........

Not containing 25 per centum or more of calcined bone ........

Rate of Duty
35% ad val.
25%, ad l. 50% per doz. ,
but not luss than 45% nor more than 70% ad val.

213 Graphite or plumbago , crude or refined : Amorphous

5% ad val.

Crystalline lump, chip, or dust .....................

Crystalline flake ....

.........

7-1/2% ad val.
15 ad val., but not less

than 0.41256 per lb. nar

more than

9.825 per lb.

214 Earthy or mineral substances wholly or partly man-

ufactured and articles , wares , and materials

(arude or advanced in condition) , composed wholly

or in chief value of earthy or mineral sub-

stances, not specially provided for, whether sus-

ceptible of decoration or not (except synthetic

materials of gem stone quality , such as corundum

and spinel, and articles and wares composed

wholly a in chief value of such materials, and

except marble ship or granito) : If not decorated in any manner :

Stone (except Cornwall stone) , not spec-

ially provided for , ground , or

crushed otherwise than merely for the purpose of facilitating shipment to the United States ......

10% ad val.

Diamond dies, porood or partially piorood, mounted or unmounted ......
Other .... .....................

20% ad val. 15% ad val.

If decorated

20% ad val.

A1180

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930,
para.. ura oh

Description of Products

Rato of Duty

216 Carbons and electrodes, of whatever material com-

posed, and wholly or partly manufactured, for

producing electric are light :

If less than one-half inoh in diameter or of

equivalent cross- sectional area ...

20% ad val.

If one-half inch or mare in diameter or of

equivalent cross -sectional area ....

15% ad val .

216 Electrodes , composed wholly or in part of carbon
or graphite , and wholly or partly manufactured, for electric furnace or electrolytic purposes .. 15% ad val.

216 Brushes , of whatever material composed , and wholly ar partly manufactured , for electric motora ,

generators, or other electrical machines of

appliances ; plates , rods , and other forms, of

whatever material composed, and wholly or partly

manufactured, for manufacturing into the afore-

said brushes ......

12-1/2 ad val .

216 Articles or wares composed wholly or in part of carbon or graphite, wholly or partly manufac tured, not specially provided for ......

15% ad val.

217 Bottles, jars , and covered or uncovered demijohns . and carboys , any of the foregoing , wholly or in chief value of glass , if unfilled and holding more than one pint , not specially provided for . 1/2 par lb.

218(a)

Biological , chemical , metallurgical , pharmaceutical, and surgical articles and utensils of all
kinds , including all soientific articles , and utensils , whether used for experimental purpos03 in hospitals , laboratories , schools or universitios, colleges , or otherwise , all the foregoing (except articles provided for in paragraph 217 or 218(a ) , Tariff ct of 1930) , finished ar unfinished, holly or in chief value of fused quartz a fused silico

25 ad val

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1181

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

218(b) Fusible enamel rods and canes, with ends finished or unfinished , for whatever purpose used, wholly or in chief value of glass ......

218(b) Tubes ( except gauge glass tubes) , rods , canes , and tubing, with ends finished or unfinished, for whatever purpose used, wholly or in chief value
of fused quartz or fused silica

218(b) Gauge glass tubes, wholly or in chief value of glass

218(0)

Illuminating articles of every description , finished or unfinished , wholly or in chief value of glass , for use in connection with artificial
illumination : Prisms, glass chandeliers , and articles in
ohief value of prisms Globes and shades ....... Other (not including chimneys)

Provided, That parts not specially provided for, wholly or in chief value of glass , of any of the foregoing shall be subject to ..

Rate of Duty
32-1/2 ad val .
20% ad val. 17-1/2 ad val.
30% ad val. 45% ad val. 30% ad val.
The same rate of duty as the articles of which they are parts

218(a)

All glassware commercially known as plated or cased glass , composed of two or more layers of clear , opaque , colored , or semitranslucent glass , ar combinations of the same

50 each, but not less than
30% nor more than 50% ad val.

218(e)

Bottles and jars , wholly or in chief value of glass, whether or not fitted with or designed for use with ground-glass stoppers , of the character used or designed to be used as containers of per fume , talcum powder, toilet water , or other toi-
let preparations : Produced by automatic machine fram molten glass automatically fed to such machine ...

12-1/2 ad val.

1

95347 0-49- pt. 5- 750

A1182

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

218(e) con.

Bottles and jars etc.: (continued) Produced otherwise than by automatic machine : If filled with toilet preparations ...... If unfilledi Bottles ..
Jars

Rate of Duty
20, ad val. 50% ad val. 37-1/2 ad val.

218 ( e )

Bottles , vials , and jars , wholly or in chief value of glass, fitted with or designed for use with ground-glass stoppers , when suitable for use and
of the character ordinarily employed for the holding or transportation of merchandise other
than perfume , talcum powder , toilet water , or other toilet preparations, when produced otherwise than by automatic machine

37-1/2 ad val.

218(f)

Table and kitchen articles and utensils , and all articles of every description not specially provided for, omposed wholly or in chief value of glass , blown or partly blown in the mold or oth-
erwise , or colored, aut , engraved , etched, frosted, gilded , ground (except such grinding as is necessary for fitting stoppers or for purposes other than ornamentation) , painted, printed in any manner , sandblasted , silvered, stained, or decorated or ornamented in any manner, whether filled or unfilled, or whether
their contents be dutiable or free (ezept articles primarily designed for ornamental purposes, decorated chiefly by engraving and valued
at not less than $8 each): If commercially known as bubble glass and produced otherwise than by automatic machine (except articles out or engraved and valued at not less than $1 each) Christmas tree ornaments ........ Other .......

30% ad val. 50% ad val. 50% on each
article or
utensil , but not less
than 30% nor mcore than 50% ad ml,

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1183

SCHEDULE X · UNITED STATES OF Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930,
paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

218(g)

Table and kitchen articles and utensils , composed wholly or in chief value of glass, when pressed and unpolished, whether or not decorated or ornamented in any manner or ground (except such
grinding as is necessary for fitting stoppers or for purposes other than ornamentation) , whether filled or unfilled, or whether their contents be dutiable or free ......

25% ad val.

219 Cylinder , crown , and sheet glass , by whatever pro-

cess made, and for whatever purpose used:

Not exceeding one hundred and fifty square inches......

63/64 per 1b.

Above that , and not exceeding three hundred

and eighty-four square inches

1-5/646 per lb.

Above that , and not exceeding seven hundred

and twenty square inches

1-18/64 per 1b.

Above that , and not exceeding eight hundred

and sixty-four square inches

1-24/64 per lb.

Above that , and not exceeding one thousand two hundred square inches ............

1-37/64 per lb.

Above that , and not exceeding two thousand

four hundred square inches ..........

1-49/646 per lb.

Above that

.....

1-62/64 per lb.

Provided, That none of the foregoing weighing less than sixteen ounces but not less than twelve ounces per square foot shall be sub ject to a less rate of duty than ......... 30% ad val.
Provided further, That this item shall not apply in respect of colored glass described in paragraph 224, Tariff Act of 1930; but such colored glass shall not be subject to duty at a rate higher than that applicable thereto on the date of this Agreement .

146 Stat. 607; 19 U. S. C. § 1001.]

A1184

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I continued )

Tariff Act of 1930 , paragraph
220 221 222(a)
222(b)

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Laminated glass composed of layers of glass and other material or materials , and manufactures wholly or in chief value of such glass ......

22-1/2% ad val .

Rolled glass (not sheet glass ) fluted , figured , ribbed, or rough, or the same containing a wire netting within itself
Plate glass , by whatever process made : Not exceeding three hundred and eighty-four square inches Above that , and not exceeding seven hundred and twenty square inches .... Above that , and not exceeding one thousand and eight square inches ...... All above that

3/4 per lb.
4-3/20 per sq.ft.
5-13/20 per sq.ft.
5-17/20 per sq.ft.
6-12/20 per sq.ft.

Provided , That none of the foregoing measur

ing one-half inch or over in thickness

shall be subject to a less rate of duty

than ......

.......

25% ad val.

Plate glass containing a wire netting within itself :

Not exceeding three hundred and eighty-four

square inches

....

Above that, and not exceeding seven hundred

and twenty square inches

All above that

5 per sq.ft.
6-12/20 per sq.ft.
7-13/20 per sq.ft.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1185

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

222(d)

Rolled, cylinder , crown , and sheet glass , not plate glass , if ground wholly or in part (whether arnot polished) otherwise than for the purpose of ornamentation , or if one-fourth of one inch or more in thickness and obscured by coloring prior to solidification

Subject to specific duties in item
222(a) or (b) abo ve

Provided, That none of the foregoing measuring onehalf inch or more in thickness and not contain-

ing a wire netting within itself shall be

subject to less than the following rates of

duty:

If ground wholly or in part (whether or not

polished) otherwise than for the purpose of

ornamentation ...

.....

If not ground wholly or in part ...............

25% ad val. 20% ad val.

223 Plate, oylinder , crown , and sheet glass , by what-

ever process made, when made into mirrors , fin-

ished a partly finished:

Exceeding in size one hundred and forty-four

square inches and not exceeding three hund

red and eighty-four square inches ......... 86 per sq. ft.

Above that , and not exceeding seven hundred

and twenty square inches .................................. 10% per aq. ft.

All above that

12 per sq. ft.

Provided, That none of the foregoing shall be

subject to a less rate of duty than

25% ad val.

224 Plate , rolled , cylinder , crown , and sheet glass ,

and glass mirrors exceeding in size one hundred

and forty-four square inches , by whatever pro-

cess made , when bent , frosted , sanded , enameled,
beveled , etched, embossed , engraved , flashed, stained, colored (except glass mot plate glass and not less than one-fourth of one inch in

5% ad val. in addition to the rates

thickness , when obscured by coloring prior to solidification) , painted, ornamented, or decorated, shall be subject to a duty of .......

otherwise chargeable thereon

A1186

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930,
paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

225 Spectacles , eyeglasses , and goggles , and frames

for the same, or parts thereof, finished or unfinished :

Valued at over 65 cents per dozen and not over $2.50 per dozen ....... .....
Valued at over $2.50 per dozen .......

40 per dos. and 10% ad val.
20% ad val.

226 Lenses of glass or pebble, molded or pressed , or
ground and polished to a spherical , cylindrical or prismatic form, and ground and polished plano or coquille glasses , wholly or partly manufactured:

With the edges unground : Spectacle and

eyeglass lenses valued at $10 or more per dozen pairs

15% ad val.

With the edges ground or beveled ( except lighthouse , spectacle , and eyeglass lenses )

10 per dos . pairs and 25%
ad val .

228(a)

Prism-binoculars , frames and mountings therefor , and parts of any of the foregoing ; all the fore going, finished or unfinished ,

30% ad val.

228 (b)

Opera or field glasses (not prism-binoculars ) , frames and mountings therefor, and parts of any of the foregoing; all the foregoing, finished or unfinished , not specially provided for ......

20% ad val.

228(b)

Telescopes valued at more than $2 each, frames and mountings therefor, and parts of such frames or mountings; all the foregoing, finished or unfinished , not specially provided for .....

Provided. That no frames or mountings for the fore+ going telescopes or parts of such frames or mountings shall be entitled to a reduction in duty by virtue of this item unless they are imported in the same shipment with such telescopes and are suitable in type and not excessive in quantity for use with the telescopes with which
imported .

228(b) Photographic lenses , finished or unfinished,

not specially provided for

.....

25% ad val. 25% ad val .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30 , 1947

A1187

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

230(a) Stained or painted glass windows , and parts there-

of, not specially provided for ....

40% ad val.

230 ( a )

All glass , and manufactures of glass , or of which glass is the component of chief value , except broken glass or glass waste fit only for remanufacture , not specially provided for: Pressed building blocks or bricks , crystal color, and pressed and polished but undeoorated wares ........ Other ....

25% ad val. 40% ad val.

231 Smalts , frostings , and all ceramic and glass col-

ars, fluxes, glazes , and enamels , all the fore-

gaing, ground or pulverized

...... 15% ad l.

231 Opal , enamel or cylinder glass tiles and tiling

20% ad val.

232(a) Marble commercially known as black marble : In block , rough or squared only... Sawed or dressed , over two inches in thickness ......

32-1/2 per cu. ft.
50¢ per ou. ft.

232(d)

Marble , breccia , and onyx , wholly or partly manufactured into monuments , benches , vases , and other articles , and articles of which the se substances or any of them is the component material of chief value , not specially provided for .....

25% ad val.

233 All articles composed wholly or in chief value of

agate , rock crystal , or other semiprecious stone,

except such as are cut into shapes and forms fit-

ting them expressly for use in the construction

of jewelry, not specially provided for

25% ad val.

A1188

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I · (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930,
paragraph

Description of Products

234(0)

Freestone, sandstone , limestone , lava, and all other store suitable for use as monumental or
building stone, except marble , breccia , and onyx, not specially provided for, unmanufac-
tured, ar not dressed, hewn , or polished ......

236 Round watch crystals or round watch glasses, finished or unfinished .....

Rate of Duty
10 per ou ft. 15% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1189

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

301 Iron in pigs and iron kentledge ......
301 Spiegeleisen containing more than 1 per centum of carbon .....

75% per ton 75% per ton

301 Wrought and cast sorap iron, and scrap steel

37-1/26 per ton

301 The additional duty applicable under the third proviso to paragraph 301, Tariff Act of 1930, to

articles (except granular or sponge iron) pro-

vided for in said paragraph shall be : On the vanadium content in excess of one-tenth

of 1 per centum

50% per lb.

On the tungsten content in excess of twotenths of 1 per centum .....

50% per lb.

On the molybdenum content in excess of two-

tenths of 1 per centum .....

65 per lb.

On the ohromium content in excess of two-

tenths of 1 per centum ....

1-1/26 per lb.

302(a) Manganese ore ( including ferruginous manganese ore or concentrates , and manganiferous iron ore , all the foregoing containing in excess of 10 per gentum of metallic manganese ..

1/4 per lb. on the metallio
manganese contained therein

302(0) Tungsten are or concentrates

38 per lb. on the metallio
tungsten oontained therein

302(d) Ferromanganese : Containing more than 1 per centum and less than 4 per centum of carbon .....
Containing 4 per centum or more of carbon ....

15/166 per lb. on the metallic manganese contained therein
11/166 per lb. on the metallio manganese contained therein

A1190

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Teriff Act of 1930, paragiaph

Description of Products

302(e) Manganese silicon containing more than 45 per oentum of manganese ..

Rate of Duty
1 per lb. on the menganese CODtained therefs and 10% ad val.

302(e) Ferromanganese containing not more than 1 per centum of carbon ...............

15/16 per lb. on the manganese contained therein and 10% ad val.

302(g) Tungsten metal , tungsten carbide , and mixtures or combinations containing tungsten metal or tungsten carbide , all the foregoing, in lumps , grains, or powder

426 per lb. on the tungsten contained therein and 25% ad val.

302(8) Tungstic acid , and all other compounds of tungsten, not specially provided for .......

426 per lb. on the tungsten contained therein and
20% ad val.

302(h) Ferrotungsten, ferrochromium tungsten, chromium tungsten, ohromium oobalt tungsten, tungsten nickel, and all other alloys of tungsten not specially provided for

426 per lb. on the tungsten contained therein and
12-1/2% ad val.

302(1) Ferrosilicon : Containing 8 per centum or more of silicon and less than 30 per centum ......
Containing 30 per centum or more of silicon and less than 60 per centum ...
Containing 60 per oentum or more of silicon and less than 80 per centum .......
Containing 80 per centum or more of silicon and less than 90 per centum ....

16 per lb. on the silicon con-
tained therein
1-1/26 per lb. on the silicon contained therein
2 per lb. on the silicon contained therein
2-1/2 per 1b. on the silicon contained therein

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1191

SCHEDULE - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Lot of
1930,
paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

302(1) Ferrosilicon : (continued ) Containing 90 per centum or more of silicon

4 per lb. on the silicon contained therein

302(k)
302(k) 302(1) 302(m) 302(n)
302(0) 302(p) 302(q) 303

Ferrochrome or ferrochromium containing 3 per oentum or more of carbon .....
Chrome metal or ohromium metal ......
Boron carbide ......
Ferrotitanium, ferrovanadium, and ferrouranium ...
Columbium or niobium, tantalum, alloys of one of these metals with the other, and alloys of columbium or niobium, or tantalum, or both, with one or more of the metals barium, boron, calcium, strontium, thorium, titanium, uranium, vanadium, or siroonium .....
All alloys used in the manufacture of steel or iron, not specially provided for
Cerium metal ......
Ferrocerium and all other oerium alloys
Mick bars, pieces thereof except orop ends, bar iron, and round iron in coils or rods , iron in slabs, blooms , loops , or other forms less finished then iron in bars and more advanced then pig iron, except oastings; all the foregoing : Valued at not above 1-1/2 cents per pound ... Valued above 1-1/2 and not above 2-1/2 oents per pound .......

5/86 per lb. on the ohromiram contained therein
25% ad val. 6-1/4% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val.
12-1/2% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val. $1 per lb. $1 per lb. and
12-1/2% ad val.
1/86 per lb. 1/46 per lb.

A1192

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

304 Steel ingots , cogged ingots , blooms and slabs , by

whatever process made :

Valued at not above 1-1/2 cents per pound ... 1/86 per lb.

Valued above 1-1/2 and not above 2-1/2 cents

per pound ......

.... 3/166 per lb.

Valued above 2-1/2 and not above 5 cents per

pound

10% ad val.

Valued above 16 cents per pound .......

15% ad val.

304 Die blocks or blanks ; shafting; pressed , sheared ,

or stamped shapes , not advanced in value or con-

dition by any process or operation subsequent to the process of stamping ; hammer molds or swaged

steel ; gun-barrel molds not in bars ; concrete

reinforcement bars ; all descriptions and shapes

of dry sand , loam, or iron molded steel castings ;

sheets and plates and steel not specially provided for ; all the foregoing:

Valued at not above 1-1/2 cents per pound ... 1/86 per lb.

Valued above 1-1/2 and not above 2-1/2 cents

per pound

1/56 per lb.

Valued above 2-1/2 and not above 5 cents per

pound Valued above 16 cents per pound

10% ad val. 15% ad val.

304 The additional duty on all steel circular saw

plates under the first proviso to paragraph 304,

Tariff Act of 1930 , shall be .......

1/46 per lb.

304 Billets and bars , whether solid or hollow (except hollow bars and hollow drill steal valued above

cents per pound) : Valued at not above 1-1/2 cents per pound ... 1/8 per lb.

Valued above 1-1/2 and not above 2-1/2 cents

per pound :

Weighing not more than 30 pounds per lineer foot .

1/56 par lb.

Weighing more than 30 pounds per linear foot ...
Valued above 2-1/2 and not above 5 cents per
pound Valued above 16 cents per pound ......

3/166 per lb.
10% ad val. 15% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

Al193

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

304 Hollow bars and hollow drill steel :

Valued above 4 and not above 5 cents per

pound ......

....

Valued above 5 and not above 8 cents per

pound

Valued above 8 and not above 12 cents per

pound

Valued above 12 and not above 16 cents per

pound

......

Valued above 16 cents per pound ......

Provided, That no hollow bars and hollow drill steel provided for in this item shall be subject to a separate additional duty under the second proviso to paragraph 304 , Tariff Aot of 1930.

305 (1)and (2)

The additional duties to be levied , collected, and paid under paragraph 305, Tariff Act of 1930 , on all steel or iron in the materials and
articles enumerated or described in paragraphs 303, 304, 307 , 308 , 312 , 313 , 315 , 316 , 317, 318, 319, 322 , 323 , 324, 327 , and 328 , Tariff Act of 1930, shall be as follows :
If such steel or iron contains more than one-
tenth of 1 per centum of vanadium, or more than two-tenths of 1 per centum of tungsten, molybdenum, or chromium, or more than sixtenths of 1 per centum of nickel , cobalt , or any other metallic element used in
alloying steel or iron ......

an additional cumulative duty . On the vanadium content in excess of one-tenth of 1 per centum ......
On the tungsten content in excess of two-tenths of 1 per centum .....
On the molybdenum content in excess of two-tenths of 1 per centum .....
On the chromium content in excess of two-tenths of 1 per centum .....

Rate of Duty
3/8 per lb. and 10% ad val.
3/86 per lb. and 20 % ad val.
10% ad val, but not less than 7/86 per lb.
3-7/86 per lb. 3/86 per lb.
and 15% ad val.
4% ad val.; and
50% per lb. 50% per lb. 65% per lb. 1-1/26 per lb.

A1194

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, peragraph

Description of Products

307 Boiler or other plate iron or steel axoopt orucible plate steel and saw plate steel , nut thinner than one hundred and nine one -thousandths
of one inch, but or sheared to shape or other-
wise, or unsheared , and skolp irop or stuel sheared or rolled in grooves ; all the foregoing regardless of value

308 Sheets of iron or steel , common or black, of whatever dimensions , and skelp iron or steel : Valued at 3 cents per pound or less : Thinner than one hundred and nine onethousandths and not thinner than
thirty-eight one-thousandths of one inch ......
Thinner than thirty-eight one-thousandths and not thinner than twenty-two one -thousandths of one inch ......
Thinner than twenty-two one-thousandths and not thinner than ten one-thousandths of one inoh .......
Thinner than ten one- thousandths of ono inch ......
Corrugated of crimped ............... Valued at more than 3 cents per pound ...

309 All iron or steel sheets , plates . bars, and rods, and all hoop, band, or scroll iron or steci, excepting what are known commercially as tin plates , terneplates , and taggers tin, when galvanized or coated with zino , spolter, or other metals , or any alloy of those metals, shall be subject to .............

309 Plates or sheets of iron or steel, by whatever name designated, other than polished, plonished, or glanced, which have been pickled or cleaned
by acid, or by any other material or process , or which are cold-rolled , smoothed only, not polished, shall be subject to ......

Rate of Duty
10% ad val., but not less than 0.175 per lb.
10% ad val. , but not less than 0.175 per lb.
10% ad val. , but not less then 0.2256 per lb.
0.30% per lb.
0.356 por lb. 0.30 per lb. 10% ad val.
1/10% por lb. more duty then if the same was not so galvanized or oosted
1/10% per lb. more duty then the rates provided on oorresponding thicknesses of camon or black sheet iron or steel

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1195

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Lot of
1930, peraraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

310 Sheets or plates of iron or steel, or taggers iron or steel , coated with tin or lead, or with a mixture of which these metals , or either of them, is a component part, by the dipping ar any other process , and commercially known as tin plates , torneplates , and taggers tin ...... 1 per lb.

312 Beams , girders, joists , angles , channels , oar-

truck channels , tees , colums and posts , or

parts or sections of columns and posts , and

deck and bulb beams , together with all other

structural shapes of iron or steel : Not assembled, manufactured or advanced be-

yond hammering, rolling, or casting...

1/8 per lb.

Machined, drilled, punched , assembled, fit-

ted, fabricated for use, or otherwise ad-

vanoed beyond hammering, rolling, or oasting .......

10% ad val.

312 Sashes and frames of iron or steel......

15% ad val.

223

313 Hoop, band, and soroll iron or steel, not specially provided for, valued at 3 cents per pound or less , eight inches or less in width:

Thinner than three-eighths and not thinner than one hundred and nine one-thousandths

of one inoh... Thinner than one hundred and nine one-

3/20p per lb.

thousandths and not thinner than thirty-
eight one-thousandths of one inch.............. Thinner than thirty- eight one-thousandths
of one inch

1/56 per lb. 3/10 per lb.

313 Bands and strips of iron ar stoel, whether in

long or short lengths , not specially provided

for

15% ad val.

A1196

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930 , para-
raph

314 Hoop or band iron, and hoop or band steel , out to lengths, or wholly or partly manufactured into hoops or ties, coated or not coated with paint or any other preparation, with or with-
out buokles or fastenings , for baling ootton or any other commodity ............. ..

315 Wire rods : Rivet , screw, fence , and other iron or steel wire rods , whether round, oval, or square, or in any other shape , nell rods and flat rods up to six inches in width ready to be drawn or rolled into wire or strips, all the foregoing in ooils or otherwise, valued at not over 2-1/2 cents per pound

316(a)

Round iron or steel wire , valued at not above 6 cents per pound:
Not smaller than ninety-five one-thou sandths of one inch in diameter

Smaller than ninety-five one -thousandths and not smaller than sixty-five onethousandths of one inch in diameter.....

Smaller than sixty-five one-thousandths of one inch in diameter....

Any of the foregoing oosted by dipping,

galvanizing, sherardizing, electrolytic,

or any other process with zino, tin, or

other metal

......

316(a) All wire composed of iron, steel , or other metal, not specially provided for ( except
gold, silver, platinum, tungsten, or molybdenum) ......

Rate of Duty
3/20p per lb.
1/8 per lb.
3/8 per lb. 5/8 per lb. 3/46 per lb. 1/10 per lb. in
addition to the rate inposed on the wire of which it is made
15% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT . 30 , 1947

A1197

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Part I ( continued)

Tarifi Aet of 1930, paragraph

Description of Products

316(a),

Telegraph, telephone, and other wires and cables composed of iron, steel , or other metal (oxcept gold, silver , platimm , tungsten, a molybdenum ) , covered with or composed in part of ootton, jute , silk, enamel , laoquer , rubber, paper, compound, or other material, with or without metal covering .....

NOTE : The United States reserves the right to withdraw, upon giving 30 days ' notice in writing to the contracting parties that such aotion is necessary in connection with measures permissible under this Agreement to encourage the production or use of synthetic rubber in the United States , the application of items 316( a ) , 320 , 369(0 ), 370, 913(a ), 923, 1537(b), and 1604 of this Part to articles composed wholly or in part of india rubber.

316(a) Wire rope

316(a) Wire atrand

316(b)

Ingots, shot, bera, shoots , wire. or other farms, not spoolally provided for , or soerap, containing more than 50 per centum of tungsten, tungsten carbide, molybdenum, or molybdonum carbide, or combinations thereof:
Ingots, shot, bars , or scrap ............. Sheets, wire, or other forms .....

317 All galvanized wire not specially provided for, not larger than twenty one-hundredths and not smaller than eight one-hundredths of one inch in diameter, of the kind commonly used for fencing purposes , galvanized wire fencing composed of wires not larger than twenty onehundredths and not smaller than eight onebundredths of one inch in diameter; and all wire commonly used for baling hay or other Oommodities

Rate of Duty
17-1/2% ad val.
1-1/4 par lb., but not less than 10% ner meodrveatlh.an 20%
17-1/2% ad val.
30% ad val. 40% ad val.
1/4/ per lb.

95347 0- 49- pt. 5- -76

A1198

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

318

Woven-wire cloth : Gauze , fabric , or screen, rade

of wire composed of steel, brass , copper,

bronze, or any other metal or alloy, not

specially provided for :

With meshos not finer than thirty wires to

the lineel inch in warp or filling ......

With meshes finer than thirty and not finer than ninety wires to the lineal inch in warp or filling

319(0) 320
321

With meshes finer than ninety wiros to the lineal inch in warp or filling ..........
Iron or steel anchors and parts thereof .......
Electric storage batteries and parts thereof, storage battery plotes , and storage battery plate material, wholly or partly manufactured, all the foregoing not specially provided for ,
Antifriction balls ar rollers , finished or unfinished, for whatever use intended .......

3/46 per sq.ft. , but not less than 10% nor more than 20% ad val.
36 per sq.ft. , but not less than 12% nor more than 24% ad val.
30% ad val.
15% ad val.
20% ad val.
46 por lb. and 25% ad val.

322

Railway fishplates or splice bars , and tie

plates, made of iron or steel .....

1/8 per lb.

322

Rail braces , and all other railway bars made of

iron or steel, and railway bars made in part

of steel, T rails , and punched iron or steel

flat rails ...

1/10 per lb.

323

Axles and parts thereof, axle bars , axle

blanks, and forgings for axles , of iron or

steel, without reference to the stage or state

of manufacture , not specially provided for ,

valued at not more than 6 cents per pound

3/10 per lb.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

Al199

SCHEDILE IT - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, pararaph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

324 Wheels for railway purposes , and parts thereof, of iron or steel, and steel-tired wheels for railway purposes , wholly or partly finished, and iron or steel locomotive , car, or other railway tires and parts thereof, wholly or partly manufactured .......

1/2 per lb.

327 Cast-iron pipe of every description, and castiron fittings for cast-iron pipe ......

10% ad val.

327 Cast-iron andirons, plates , stove plates , sad-

irns, tailors ' irons, hatters' irons, but

not including electric irons , and castings

and vessels wholly of cast iron, including all

00tings of iron or cast-iron platos which

have been chiseled, drilled , ma ohined, or

otherwise advanood in condition by processes

or operations subsequent to the casting process

but not made up into artioles, or parts there-

of, or finished machine parts ........

10% ad val.

327 Castings of malleable iron not specially pro-

vided for :

Heel and other plates for boots and shoes · 5% ad val.

Other ........

10% ad val.

NOTE : The existing customs classification treatment of castings of malleable iron which are heel or other plates for boots and shoes, containing leather pegs or plugs , as being provided for in paragraph 327, Tariff Act of 1930, in accordanoe with the decision of the United
States Oustoms Court published as C.D. 787 (11 Cust. Ct. 30 ), shall be contined during the effective period of this Arcement.

327 Molders ' patterns , of whatever material composed, for the manufacture of asstings ...... 12-1/2% ad val.

A1200

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XI - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued).

Tariff Aet of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

328 Lap-welded, butt-welded, seamed, or jointed iron or steel tubes , pipes , flues, and stays , not thinner then sixty-five one-thousandths of one inch :
If not less than three-eighths of one inch in diameter
If less than three -eighths and not less than one-fourth of one inch in diameter
If less than one-fourth of one inch in diameter ............



Provided, That no tubes, pipes , flues , or stays made of charcoal iron shall be subject to a less rate of duty than .....
328 Flexible metal tubing or hose, whether covered with wire or other material, including any appliances or attachments affixed thereto, not specially provided for ...........
329 Chain and chains of all kinds, made of iron or steel : Not less than three -eighths of one inch in diameter ...... Less than three-eighths and not less than five-sixteenths of one inch in diameter . Less than five-sixteenths of one inch in diameter .......
329 Chains of iron or steel , used for the transmission of power, of not more than two-inoh pitch and containing more than three parts per pitoh, and parts thereof, finished or unfinished: Valued at less than 40 cents per pound .... Valued at 40 cents or more per pound
329 All other chains used for the transmission of power, and parts thereof .....
329 Anobor or stud link chain: Two inches or more in diameter........ Less than two inches in diameter........

.....

Rate of Duty
3/86 per lb. 5/8 par lb. 7/86 per lb. 5/86 per lb.
20% ad val.
1/26 per lb. lé par lb. 2 per lb.
30% ad val. 15% ad val. 15% ad val. 3/4 per lb. 1 per lb.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1201

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph
330

Description of Products
Nuts, nut blanks, and washers, of wrought iron or steel

330 Bolts, with or without threads or nuts, and bolt blanks, of iron or steel ......*

330 Spiral nut locks, and lock: washers , of iron or steel

331 Cut nails and cut spikes, of iron or steel, exceeding two inches in length ....
331 Hobnails and cut nails, of iron or steel, not exceeding two inches in length

331 Nails, spikes, tacks , brads, and staples , made of iron or steel wire : Not less than one inch in length nor
smaller than sixty-five one-thousandths of one inch in diameter
Less than one inch in length and smaller than sixty-five one-thousandths of one inch in diameter

331 Staples, in strip form, for use in paper fasteners or stapling machines .....

331 Spikes, tacks ( not including thumb tacks ) ,
brads, and staples , not specially provided for

332 Rivets, studs, and steel points , lathed , machined, or brightened, and rivets or studs for nonskidding automobile tires ......

332 Rivets of iron or steel, not specially provided for .......

335 Grit, shot, and sand of iron or steel, in any form

Rate of Duty
3/10 per lb. 1/26 per lb. 20% ad val. 3/10 per lb. 10% ad val.
2/10% per lb. 1/2 per lb. 2 per lb. 1/2 per lb. 15% ad val. 1/2 per lb. 5/8 per lb.

A1202

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

337 Card clothing not actually and permanently fitted to and attached to carding machines or to parts thereof at the time of importation : When manufactured with round iron or untempered round steel wire .................................................. When manufactured with tempered round steel wire, or with plated wire, or other than round iron or steel wire, or with felt face, wool face , or rubber-face oloth containing wool

338 Screws , commonly called wood screws, of iron or steel

339 Table, household, kitchen, and hospital utensils , and hollow or flat ware , not specially provided for ( except articles composed wholly or in chief value of tin or tin plate , eleotric flatirons , fly swatters , illuminating articles , and household food grinding or outting utensils other than meat and food ohoppers ), whether or not containing eleatrical heating elements as constituent parts thereof :
Plated with gold but not plated in any part with platinum .......
Plated with silver but not plated in any part with platinum: On nickel silver or oopper ........... On other metal
Composed of iron or steel and enameled or
glazed with vitreous glasses (except sanitary articles ), not containing eleo-
trical heating elements ........................... Composed wholly or in chief value of
aluminum ...

Rate of Duty
10% ad val.
25% ad val. 15% ad val.
32-1/2% ad val. 25% ad val. 35% ad val. 2-1/24 per lb.
and 7-1/2% ad val. 4-1/4 per lb. and 20% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1203

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of 1930 ,
paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

339 Table , household, kitchen, and hospital utensils ,

oon.

and hollow or flat ware, not specially provided

for, etc.: (continued)

Not plated with platinum, gold ,or silver,

and not specially provided for:

Carbonated water siphons composed

wholly or in chief value of copper, brass, steel , or other base metal

(other than aluminum) .......

25% ad val.

Other :

Composed wholly or in chief value

of brass

15% ad val.

Composed wholly or in chief value of pewter
Composed wholly or in chief value

12-1/2% ad val.

of iron, steel, oopper, or antimony ..... Composed wholly or in chief value of base metal other than alumi-

20% ad val.

num, brass, pewter , iron,

steel, copper, and antimony, if

containing electrical heating elements

20% ad val.

341 Steel plates , stercotype plates , electrotype plates , half-tone plates , photogravure plates , photo-engraved plates , and plates of other materials, engraved or otherwise prepared for printing, and plates of iron or steel en-
graved or fashioned for use in the production of designs , patterns , or impressions on glass
in the process of manufacturing plate or other glass ; lithographic plates of stone or other material engraved, drawn, or prepared . 15% ad val.

343 Needles for sewing, shoe, or embroidery machines 75% per 1000

of every description, not specially provided

and 20% ad

for ......

val.

343 Crochet needles or hooks

$1.15 per 1000 and

40% ad val.

343 Tape , knitting, and all other needles , not specially provided for, and bodkins of metal . 30% ad val.

A1204

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of 1930 , pararaph 343 345
346
348
349

Description of Products
Needle oases or needle books furnished with assortments of needles only and valued at not less than $1.25 per dozen cases or books ......
Saddlery and harness hardware : Buckles , rings , snaps , bits , swivels , and all other articles of iron, steel, brass , composition, or other metal, commonly or commercially known as harness hardware; and all articles of iron, steel, brass , composition , or other metal, com.only or commercially known as saddlery or riding bridle hardware; all the foregoing : If not plated with gold or silver
If plated with gold or silver
Belt buckles , trouser buokles , and waistcoat buokles, shoe or slipper buckles , and parts thereof, made wholly or partly of iron , steel , or other base metal : Valued at more than 20 and not more than 50 cents per hundred ...
Valued at more than 50 cents and not more than $1.66-2/3 per hundred .....
Snap fasteners and clasps ( exoept sew-on fasteners ), and parts thereof, by whatever name known, or of whatever material composed, not plated with gold , silver , or platinum; all the foregoing, valued at not more than $1.66-2/3 per hundred: Not mounted on tape
Mounted on tape .....
Metal trouser buttons (except steel ) and nickel bar buttons ........

Rate of Duty
30% ad val.
12-1/2% ad val.
15% ad val.
3-1/26 per 100 and 10% ad val.
5 per 100 and 10% ad val .
27-1/2% ad val.
30% ad val. 1/24 per
line per groes and 7-1/24

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1205

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930,
paragraph

Description of Products

349 Steel trouser buttons

349 Buttons of metal, not specially provided for ....

349 Metal buttons embossed with a design, device , pattern, or lettering
350 Pins with solid heads , without ornamentation, including hair, safety, hat, bonnet, and shawl pins; and brass , copper , iron, steel , or other base metal pins , with heads of glass , paste, or fusible enamel ; all the foregoing not plated with gold or silver , and not commonly known as jewelry: Safety pins
Other
351 Pens, not specially provided for : Of plain or carbon steel Wholly or in part of other metal Any of the foregoing with nib and borrel in one piece ...
352 Cutting tools of any kind oontaining more than one-tenth of 1 per centum of vanadium, or more than two- tenths of 1 per centum of tungsten, molybdenum, or chromium ......
353 Electrical apparatus , instruments (other than laboratory) , and devices , finished or unfinished, wholly or in chief value of metal , and not specially provided for: Telegraph (including printing and typewriting ), telephone, and therapeutic (including diagnostic ) Signaling, radio , welding, and ignition ... X-ray

Rate of Duty
3/20p per line per gross and 10% ad val .
3/10p per line per gross and 6% ad val .
22-1-2% ad val .
22-1/2% ad val .
20% ad val.
12% per gross 140 per gross 10% per gross
30% ad val.
17-1/2% ad val.
15% ad val . 10% ad val.

A1206

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph

Description of Products

353 Articles suitable for producing, rectifying, modifying, controlling, or distributing electrical energy, and articles having as an essential feature an electrical element or device, such as electrio motors , fans , looomotives , portable tools , furnaces , heaters, ovens, ranges, washing machines, refrigera-
tors , and signs ; all the foregoing (not inoluding electrical wiring apparatus , instruments , and devices ) , finished or unfinished, wholly or in chief value of metal, and not specially provided for :
Switches and switchgear which are not wiring apparatus , instruments , or devices; fans ; blowers ; and washing maohines ................... .
Machines for packaging pipe tobacco ; machines for wrapping cigarette packages ; machines for wrapping candy; combination candy cutting and wrapping machines; and cooking stoves and ranges
Internal-combustion engines : Carburetor type Other, of the horizontal type and weighing not over 5,000 pounds each, or not of the horizontal type and weighing not over 2,500 pounds each
Other articles (except machines for determining the strength of materials or artioles in tension, compression, torsion, or shear; flashlights ; batteries ; Vacuum oleaners; and internal-combustion
engines )

353 Parts , finished or unfinished, wholly or in chiof value of metal, not specially provided for, of articles provided for in any item 353 of this Part .....

Rate of Duty
17-1/2% ad val .
10% ad val. 10% ad val. 10% ad val.
15% ad val. The same rate
of duty as the articles of which they are parts .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1207

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

354

Penknives, pooketknives , clasp knives, pruning

knives, budding knives , erasers , manicure

knives, and all knives by whatever name known, including such as are denominatively mentioned in the Tariff Act of 1930 , which have folding or other than fixed blades or

attachments, all the foregoing (except pen-
knives and pocketknives which have folding blades and steel handles ornamented or deo-

orated with etohings or gilded designs or

both), valued at more than 6 per dozen...............

Provided, That any of the foregoing, if imported in the condition of assembled , but not fully finished, shall be dutiable at

354

Cuticle knives, corn knives , nail files,

tweezers , manicure or pedicure nippers, and

parts thereof, finished or unfinished, by

whatever name known

355

Table, butchers ' , carving, cooks ' , hunting,

kitohen, bread, cake , pie, slicing, cigar,

butter, vegetable , fruit , cheese, canning,

fish, oarpenters ' bench, ourriers ' , drawing,

farriers ' , fleshing, hay, sugar-beat, boet-

topping, tanners ' , plumbers ' , painters ' ,

palette, artists ' , shoe, and similar knives ,

forks, and steels , and oleavers , all the

foregoing, finished or unfinished, not

specially provided for :

With handles of mother-of-pearl, shell,

ivory, deer, or other animal horn ......

With handles plated with and in chief value of silver ......

With handles of silver (other than plated with silver ), or other metal than aluminum, nickel silver, iron or steel

Rato of Duty
17-1/26 each and 27-1/2% ad val.
The rate of duty herein specified for fully finished artioles
40% ad val .
46 each and 12-1/2% ad val.
5 each and 12-1/2% ad val.
166 each and 35% ad val .

A1208

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tarifi Act of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

355 Table , butchers ' , carving, cooks ' , hunting, ktohen, obo.: (continued) With handles of hard rubber , solid bone,

celluloid, or any pyroxylin, casein, or similar material :
Table, carving, cake, pie , butter, fruit, cheese, and fish

24 each and
12-1/2% ad val .

Other
With handles of wood or wood and steel if specially designed for other than housohold, kitchen, or butchers ' use, or with handles of nickel silver or steel other thon austenitic : If less than four inches in length, exclusive of handle .................

8 each and 35% ad val.
20 each and 25% ad vol.

If four inches in length or over, exclusive of handle ( except hay forks and 4-tined manure forks )..................
With handles of any other material, including those with handles of wood or wood and steel not specially designed for other than household, kitchen, or butchers ' use : If less than four inches in length, exolusive of handle

4 each and 25% ad val.
24 each and 17-1/2% ad val.

If four inches in length or over, exolusive of handle (except hay forks
and 4-tined manure forks ) Any of the foregoing without handles :
With blades less than six inches in

8 each and 35% ad val.
16 each and

length

12-1/2% ad val.

.......

With blades six inches or more in length (exot hay for and 4-timed
manure forks) Hay forks and 4- tined manure forks , finishod
or unfinished, not specially provided for, with handles of any material other then those specifically mentioned in paragraph 355, Tariff Act of 1930 , if four inches in length or over, exolusive of handle , or without handles , with blades six inches or
more in length

20 each and 12-1/2% ad val.
26 each and 12% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A1209

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of 1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

356 Planing-machine knives, tannery and leather knives, tobacco knives , paper and pulp mill knives, shear blades , circular cloth cutters, oircular oork cutters, circular oigarette outters , and all other cutting knives and blades used in power or hand machines (except knives and blades for meat-cutting, meat-slicing, or meat-chopping machines , and except roll bars, bed plates , and other stock-treating parts for
pulp and paper machinery)..................

Rate of Duty 20% ad val.

357 Pruning and sheep shears, and blades for the same, finished or unfinished :

Valued at not more than 50 cents per dozen . 1-3/46 each

and 22-1/2% ad val.

Valued at more than 50 cents and not more

7-1/24 each

than 1.75 per dozen .....

and 22-1/2% ad val.

Valued at more than 1.75 per dozen ..

5 each and

12-1/2% ad val.

358 Safety razors, and safety-razor handles and frames

12-1/2% ad val. , but not less
than 2-1/24 each and
7-1/2% ad val.

358 Blades for safety razors , whether or not in strips , finished or unfinished
359 Surgical needles , including hypodermic needles, composed wholly or in part of iron, steel , copper, brass, nickel, aluminum, or other metal, finished or unfinished ......

1/4 each and 7-1/2% ad val.
40% ad val.

359 Dental hypodermic needles and dental extraction

forceps , wholly or in part of iron, steel ,

copper, brass , nickel, aluminum, or other metal ,

finished or unfinished

30% ad val.

A1210

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of 1930, paragraph

Description of Products

360 Laboratory instruments , apparatus , or appliances , for determining the strength of materials or articles in tension, compression, torsion, or shear, and pyrometers and moisture testers
which are scientific or laboratory instruments , apparatus , utensils, or appliances ; all the
foregoing and parts thereof, wholly or in chief value of metal , and not plated with gold, silver, or platinum, finished or unfinished, not specially provided for

......

3644 Bells ( except church and similar bells and 'corillons and except bicycle , velooipode, and simi-
lar bells ) , finished or unfinished, and parts thereof .......

365 Shotguns , rifles, and combination shotguns and rifles :
Valued at not more than $5 each : Shotguns ......

Rifles , and combination shotguns and rifles

Valued at more than 5 and not more than
$10 each: Shotguns ................

Rifles, and combination shotguns and rifles
Valued at more than $10 and not more than $25 each: Shotguns .........
Rifles , and combination shotguns and rifles ....  ....

Rate of Duty
20% ad val.
25% ad val.
50% each and 15% ad val.
75% each and 22-1/2% ad val .
$1 each and 15% ad val.
$2 each and 22-1/2% ad val.
$2 each and 15% ad val.
$3 each and 22-1/2, ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1211

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of 1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

365 Shotguns , rifles , and combination shotguns and

con.

rifles : (continued)

Valued at more than 25 and not more than

$50 each: Shotguns

Rifles, and combination shotguns and rifles

Valued at more than $50 each: Shotguns ........

Combination shotguns and rifles
365 Borrels , further advanced in manufacture than rough bored only: For shotguns
For rifles ...

365 Stocks , wholly or partly manufactured: For shotguns ...
For rifles ......
365 Parts of shotguns , and fittings for shotgun stocks or barrels , finished or unfinished .....
365 Parts of rifles or combination shotguns and rifles, and fittings for rifle stocks or barrels, finished or unfinished .....
365 Shotguns imported without a look or looks or other fittings ......
365 Rifles imported without a look or looks or other fittings ......
365 Shotgun barrels, in single tubes , forged, rough bored .......

Rate of Duty
$3 each and 15% ad val.
$5 each and 22-1/2% ad val.
20% ad val. 25% ad val. 32-1/2% ad val.
each and 15% ad val. $2 each and 25% ad val.
$1.25 each and 15% ad val.
$2.50 each and 25% ad val.
15% ad val.
27-1/2% ad val. $3 each and 15%
- val.
$5 each and 27-1/2% ad val.
5% ad val.

A1212

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Teriff! Aot of 1930, paragraph

Desoription of Products

368(a)
( 1 ), (2) and (3)

Pigeon timers valued at more than $10 each .....
Any of the foregoing containing Jewels shall be subject to an additional cumulative duty of ......

Fate of Duty
$2.25 each and 32-1/2% ad val.
12-1/26 for each such Jewel

368(a) (2)( 2)) and (3)

Ships ' logs , standard marine chronometers having spring-detent escapements , and depthsounding mechanisms , devices , and instruments; all the foregoing intended ar suitable for measuring time , distance , or speed, whether or
not in cases , containers , or housings, and valued at more than 10 each

1.15 each and 17-1/2% ad val.

Any of the foregoing containing jewels shall be subject to an additional cumulative duty of ......

76 for each such Jewel

368(a) (1)

Parts for any of the articles provided for in the foregoing seoond item 368 (a ) (except plates
provided for in clause ( 2 ) of subparagraph 368 (o), Tariff Aot of 1930, and Jewels ) imported in the same shipment with complete movements , mechanisms , devices , or instruments , provided for in the said item (whether or not suitable for use in such movements, mechanisms , devices ,
or instruments ) but this item shall not be applicable to that portion of all the parts in the shipment which exceeds in value 1-1/2 per centum of the value of such complete movements, mechanisms , devices , or in-
struments .

12-1/2 ad val.

368(e) Clock cases , not specially provided for , when imported separately ......

22-1/2% ad val.

368(g) Taximeters and parts thereof, finished or unfinished

+5% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1213

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

369( a)

Automobile trucks valued at $1,000 or more each , automobile truck and motor bus chassis valued
at $750 or more each, automobile truck bodies valued at $250 or more each, motor busses designed for the carriage of more than ten persons , and bodies for such busses , all the foregoing , whether finished or unfinished

369(b) Motor cycles , whether finished or unfinished .....

12-1/2 ad val. 10% ad val.

369(c)

Parts (except tires and except parts wholly or in chief value of glass) for any of the articles enumerated in subparagraph (a) or (b) of paragraph 369 , Tariff Act of 1930 , finished or unfinished , not specially provided for: For motor cycles Other

15% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val.

370 Airplanes , hydroplanes , motor boets , and parts of

the foregoing

15% ad val.

371 Bicycles with or without tires , having wheels in

diameter (measured to the outer circumference of

the tire): Over 25 inches:

If weighing less than 36 pounds complete $1.25 each, but

without accessories and not designed

not less than

for use with tires having a cross-

7-1/2% nor

sectional diameter exceeding 1-5/8 inches ...
Other

more than 15% ad val.
$2.50 each, but not luss than

15% nor more

than 30% ad val .

Over 19 but not over 25 inches

$2 each, but not

less than 15% nor more than

30% ad val.

Not over 19 inches

$1.25 each, but not less than

15% nor more

than 30% ad val .

95347 0-49- pt. 5- -77

A1214

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Aot of 1930,
paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

372 Parts of bioyoles , not including tires : Frames .......
Other

$1.25 each, but not less than
15% nor more than 30% ad val. 30% ad val.

372 Reciprocating steam engines .....
372 Resiproosting steam locomotives ....
372 Sewing machines, not specially provided for, regardless of value

10% ad val. 7-1/2% ad val 10 % ad val.

372 Steam turbinos

15% ad val.

372 Cash registers .....

15% ad val.

372 Printing machinery: Duplicating machines (not including printing presses ) ......
372 Paper-box machinery ...............

15% ad vel. 20% ad val.

372 Machine tools (exoept jig-boring machine tools) ... 15% ad val.

372 Embroidery machines (not including shuttles for sewing and embroidery machines )

15% ad val.

372 Leoe-making machines , and maohines for making lace

ourtains , nets and nettings :

Levers (including go-through ) .................... Other ..........

15% ad val. 10% ad val.

372 Cirouler knitting machipos, finished or unfinished,

not specially provide for ....

15% ad val.

372 Braiding, lace braiding, and insulating machines, and all other similar textile machinery, finished or unfinished, not specially provided for .................

20% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1215

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, Aragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

372 Textile machinery, finished or unfinished, not

specially provided for (except looms and machin-

ery for making synthetic textile filaments,

bands, strips , or sheets ) :

For textile manufacturing or processing prior

to the making of fabrics or woven, kit,

crocheted, or felt articles not made from

fabrios (except bleaching, printing, dyeing,

or finishing machinery):

For manufacturing or processing vegetable

fibers .....

10% ad val.

Circular combs commonly known as "Noble "

or "Bodfced" tombs .........

40% ad val.

Other ...........

20% ad val.

Bleaching, printing, dyeing, or finishing .... 20% ad val.

Other .......

15% ad val.

372 Cream separators valued at more than $50 and not

more than $100 each ...................

6-2/4% ad val

372 Combined adding and typewriting machines

15% ad val.

372 Apparatus for the generation of acetylene gas from

asladum carbide ......

15% ad val.

372 Machines for cutting or hobbing gears ......

20% ad val.

372 Punches, shears, and ber cutters, intended for use

in fabricating structural or other rolled iron

or steel shapes ................. ....

20% ad val.

372

chines, finished or unfinished, not specially

provided for :

Machines for packaging pipe tobacco; machines

for wrapping cigarette packages; machines

for wrapping oandy; and combination candy

outting and wrapping mohines

10% ad val.

Internal-combustion engines : arburetor type .......................

103 ad val.

Other, of the horizontal type and weigh-

ing not over 5,000 pounds each, or not

of the horizontal type and weighing not

over 2,500 pounds each .....

10% ad val.

A1216

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, Paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

372 Machines , finished or unfinished , eto.: (continued)

000

Combination cases and sharpening mechanisms

for safety razors .......................................

12-1/2% ad val,

Other ( except wrapping and packaging machines ;

food grinding or cutting machines ; machines for determining the strength of materials

or articles in ten ion, compression, torsion]

or shear; machines for making paper pulp or

paper; machines for manufacturing chocolate or confectionery; and internal-combustion

engines )

15% ad val.

372 Parts , not specially provided for, wholly or in chief value of metal or porcelain, of articles provided for in any item 372 of this Part : Textile pins ...............................................................
Provided, That forged steel grinding balls shall not be entitled to any reduction in duty by virtue of any provision in this Agreement.

20% ad val. The same rate of
duty as the articles of which they are parts

373 Shovels, spades , scoops , arks, hoes, rakes , and

drainage tools , and parts thereof, composed

wholly or in chief value of metal, whether partly

or wholly manufactured:

Forks , hoes, and rakes , if not agricultural

hand tools, and parts thereof ....

15% ad val,

Other ...

7-1/2% ad val.

374 Aluminum, aluminur scrap, and alloys (except those

provided for in paragraph 302 , Tariff Act of

1930 ) in which aluminum is the component ma-

terial of chief value :

Ir arude form ( except scrap)

24 per lb.

In ooils , plates , sheets , bars , rods , circles ,

disks, blanks , strips , rectangles , and

squares ........... Scrap .......

34 per lb. 1-1/24 per lb.

375 Metallio magnesium and metallic magnesium scrap ... 20% per lb.

[46 Stat. 609; 19 U. S. C. § 1001.]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1217

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

375 Magnesium alloys , powder, sheets , ribbons , tub- 20 per lb. on

ing, wire, and all other articles , weres, or man- the metallio

ufactures of magnesium, not specially provided

sagnesiums

for ..

content and

10% ad val.

376 Antimony, as regulus or metal .....

ld per lb.

376 Needle or liquated antimony 378 Cadadum .. ...............

1/4 per 1b. 3-3/46 per lb.

381 Copper ir rolls, rods, or sheets .......

1-1/4 per lb.

381 Oopper engravers ' plates, not ground, and seatless copper tubes and tubing ........

3-1/24 per lb.

381 Copper engravers ' plates, ground, and brased copper tubes .........

5-1/2 par lb.

381 Brass rods, sheet bress , brass plates, bars, and

strips, Muntz or yellow metal sheets, sheaths

ing, bolts, piston rods , and shafting

24 per lb.

381 Seamless brass tubes and tubing ......

24 per lb.

381 Brased brass tubes , brass angles and channels ... 6 per lb.

381 Bronze rods and sheets

24 per lb.

381 Bronse tubes ......

24 per lb.

384 Cabinet looks , not of pin tumbler or cylinder construction: Not over one and one-half inches in width .. 35p per dos.

and 10% ad val.

Over one and one-half and not over two and 50% per dos.

one-half inches in width ........

and 10% ad val.

Over two and one-half inches in width ...... 75 per dos.

and 10% ad val.

A1218

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Lot of 1930, para-
aph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

384 Padlocks, not of pin tumbler or cylinder -con-

struction:

Not over one and one-half inches in width .. 17-1/24 per doz. and 10%

ad val.

Over one and one-half and not over two and one-half inches in width .......

25 per dos.
and 10% ad val .

Over two and one-half inches in width ...... 37-1/2 per dos. and 10%

ad val.

384 Padlooks of pin tumbler or cylinder construction:

Not over one and one-half inches in width .. 50% per dos.

and 10% ad val.

Over one and one-half and not over two and 75% per doz.

one-half inobes in width .........

and 10% ad

val.

Over two and one-half inches in width ...... $1 per dos.

and 10% ad

val.

384 All other looks or latches of pin tumbler or oylinder construction .......
385 Tinsel wire, made wholly or in chief value of gold, silver, or other tal ......

$1 per dos. and 10% ad val .
66 per lb. and 5% ad val.

385 Lame or lahn, made wholly or in chief value of gold, silver, or other metal

6 per lb. and 10% ad val.

385 Bullions and metal threads made wholly or in

6 per lb. and

chief value of tinsel wire, lame or lahn ...... 10% ad val.

385 Beltings and other articles made wholly or in

chief value of tinsel wire, metal thread,

lame or lahn, or of tinsel wire, lame or lahn

and india rubber, bullions, or metal threads , not specially provided for ..............

15% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1219

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph

Description of Products

385 Woven fabrics, ribbons , and tassels, made wholly or in chief value of any material provided for in any item 385 of this Part .......

385 Fringes made wholly or in chief value of any material provided for in any item 385 of this Part ......

389 Nickel , and alloys ( except those provided for in paragraph 302 or 380, Tariff Act of 1930) in
which nickel is the component material of chief value :
In pigs or ingots, shot , cubes, grains, cathodes, or similar forms
In bars, rods , plates , sheets, strips, strands , castings, wire, tubes, tubing, anodes, or electrodes .....
All the foregoing, if cold rolled, cold drawn, or cold worked ....

390 Bottle caps of metal, collapsible tubes, and sprinkler tops : If not decorated , colored, waxed, lacquered, enameled, lithographed, electroplated, or embossed in color ...... If decorated, colored, waxed, lacquered , enameled, lithographed, electroplated, or embossed in color
393 Zinc-bearing ores of all kinds , except pyrites containing not more than 3 per centum zinc ......

394 Zinc : In blocks, pigs, or slabs, and zinc dust ..... In shects .... In sheets coated or plated with nickel or other metal ( excep . gold, silver, or platinum) , or solutions
394 Old and worn-out zinc, fit only to be remanufactured, zinc dross, and zinc skimmings

Rate of Duty
20% ad val.
45% ad val.
1-1/46 per lb. 12-1/2 ad val. 5 ad val. in
addition to the foregoing applicable rate
15% ad val. 20% ad val. 3/4 per lb. on
the zinc contained therein 7/8 per lb. 16 per lb. 1-1/8 per lb.
3/4 per lb.

A1220

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff
Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

395 Print blocks , and print rollers not specially provided for, of whatever material composed, used for printing, stamping, or cutting designs .....
397 Articles or wares not specially provided for, whether partly or wholly manufactured : Composed wholly or in chief value of gold, or plated with gold, or colored with gold lacquer ...... Composed wholly or in chief value of silver Plated with silver on nickel silver or copper, but not in chief value of silver ..... Plated with silver on metals other than
nickel silver or oopper, but not in chief value of silver .................................
Composed wholly or in chief value of iron, steel , lead , copper, brass , nickel , pewter , zinc, aluminum, or other metal (not including platinum, gold, or silver), but not plated with platinum, gold, or silver, or colored with gold lacquer : Woven wire fencing and woven wire netting, all the foregoing composed of wire smaller than eight one-hundredths and not smaller than three one-
hundredths of one inch in diameter, coated with zino or other metal either before or after weaving Cases and sharpening devices for safety razors , not wholly or in chief value of lead ..........
Articles wholly or in chief value of lead ......

Slide fasteners valued at 4 cents ar more each ........
Golf club heads , not wholly or in chief value of lead
Other (except slide fasteners and parts thereof )

Rate of Duty
40% ad val.
32-1/2 ad val. 32-1/24 ad val. 25% ad val. 35% ad val.
30% ad val. 12-1/ 2 ad val. 26 per lb. ,
but not less than 15% nor more than 45% ad val. 40% ad vol. 15% ad val. 22-1/2% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A1221

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

401 Timber hewn , sided , or squared , otherwise than by sawing, and round timber used for spars or in building wharves ; all the foregoing , if of fir, spruce, pine, hemlook, or larch

401 Sawed lumber and timber not specially provided for, if of fir, spruce , pine , hemlock, or laroh
NOTE : Sawed lumber and sawed timbers however provided for in the Tariff Act of 1930 , shall not be required to be marked to indicate the country of origin.
4.02 Maple (except Japanese maple) , biroh, and beech: Flooring

403 Brier root or brier wood, ivy or laurel root, and similar wood, unmanufactured , or not further advanced than cut into blocks suitable for the
articles into which they are intended to be converted

404 Cedar commercially known as Spanish oedar , granadilla, mahogany, rosewood, and satinwood : In the form of sawed boards , planks , deals , and all other farms not further manufactured than sawed , and flooring .......

404 Lignum vitae , lancewood , ebony , and box: In the form of sawed boards , planks , deals , and all other forms not further manufactured than sawed, and flooring ......

405 Veneers of wood

405 Plywood with face ply of Western redcedar (thuja plicata)
4.05 Wood unmanufactured, not specially provided for ..

Rate of Duty
50% per 1000 ft,, board measure
25% por 1000 ft., board measure
4% ad val.
5 ad val.
% ad val.
7-1/2% ad val. 10% nd val. 20% ad vals 10% ad vals

A1222

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

406 Hubs for wheels , heading bolts , stave bolts, last blocks , wagon blocks , oar blocks , heading blocks , and all like blocks or sticks , roughhewn or rough shaped, sawed or bored ....................

407 Casks , barrels , and hugsheads (empty) , of wood, not specially provided for (except bear barrels and beer kegs)

409 Reeds wrought or manufactured from rattan or
roods , whether round, flat, split, oval , or in whatever form, cane wrought or manufactured from rattan, oane webbing, and split or
partially manufactured rattan, not specially provided for ......

409 Furniture wholly or in chief value of rattan, reed, bamboo, osier or willow, malacos , grass , seagrass, or fiber of any kind .....

409 Split bamboo .....
409 Tennis-racket frames , valued at $1.75 or more soh, wholly or partly manufactured of rattan, bamboo, sier or willow .......

411 Baskets and bags, wholly or in chief value of straw, not specially provided for .....
412 Furniture, wholly or partly finished , and parts thereof, wholly or in chief value of wood, and not specially provided for :
Other furniture .................................................................... Parts of any of the foregoing
412 Folding rules , wholly or in chief value of wood, and not specially provided for ......
412 Bent-wood furniture, wholly or partly finished, and parts thereof
412 Paintbrush handles, wholly or in chief value of wood ......

Rate of Duty
5% ad val. 7-1/2% ad vol.
10% ad val. 30% ad val. 5/86 per lb. 22-1/2% ed_val, 25% ad val.
20% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val. 20% ad val. 40% ad val. 30% ad val. 15% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1223

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

412 Wood flour

12-1/2% ad val.

412 Manufactures of wood ar bark , or of which wood or

bark is the component material of chief value ,

not specially provided for:

Broom handles and mop handles , further ad-

vanced than rough haped, not less than

3/4 inch in diameter and not less than 38

inches in length; toboggans ; ice-hockey sticks; baby carriages ; canoes ; cance

paddles; and wheelbarrows

15% ad val.

Picture and mirror frames; shuttlos; bob-

bins; carriages , drays , trucics , and other

vehicles , and parts thereof; badminton

rackets; golf club shafts; skis , equip-

ment ordinarily used in conjunction there-

with , and parts of skis or of such equip-

ment; snowshoes ; and boxes , crates ,

fruit-picking trays, and similar containers , and shooks for making any such containers · 16-2/3% ad val. Badminton-racket frames and tennis-racket

frames :

Valued at less than $1.75 each ....... Valued at $1.75 or more each .......

16-2/3% ad val. 10% ad val.

Spoons , forks, faucets , spigots , stocking

darnors or darning lasts , clasps , bucklos ,

and buckle slides

17-1/2% ad val.

Other (except brush backs , clothespins ,

spools wholly of wood suitable for throad,

and laminated wallboard) .......

25% ad val.

A1224

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES (61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tarifi Aot of
1930, para-

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

502 Molasses and sugar sirups , not specially provided for, containing soluble nonsugar solids

(excluding any foreign substance that may have been added or developed in the product ) equal to more than 6 per centum of the total soluble solids :

Testing not above 40 per centum total sugars Testing above 48 per centum total sugars ...

0.125 per gal. 0.1375% addi-
tional for each per centum of total sugars

and frections of a per centum in

proportion

902 Molasses not imported to be commercially used for 0.034 per lb.

the extraction of sugar or for human con-

of total.

sumption .

sugars

503 Maple sugar

24 per lb.

903 Maple sirup 505 Salicin ...

1-1/24 per lb. 17-1/2 ad val.

505 Lactose

25% ad val.

506 Sugar candy and all confectionery not specially

provided for:

Valued at less than 6 cents per pound ............

ad val.

Valued at 6 cents or more per pound ....................... 14% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1225

UNITED STATES Part I (oontimed)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph 601
601
603
605

Description of Prod ots
Trapper tobacco, and filler tobacco when mixed or packed with more than 35 per contum of wrapper tobaooo : If unstemmed ..... If stemmed ......
Smoke-cured cigarette leaf tobacco, unstommed and having the flavor and aroma characteristic of smoke-oured Latakia leaf tobacco, not specially provided for ................... .
Tobacco, manufactured or unmanufactured, not specially provided for ...
Cigarettes

Rate of Duty
$1 per lb. $1.72 per lb.
15 per lb. 17-1/26 per le 1.25 par lb.
and 6-1/ ad val

A1226

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHED

NITED STATES OF AMERICA

Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

701 Cattle weighing less than 200 pounds each or 700

pounds or more each.....

.....

Rate of Duty 1-1/24 per lb.

Provided, That not more than 200,000 head of cattle weighing less than 200 pounds each entered in the 12-month period beginning April 1 in any year, and not more than 400,000 head of oattle weighing 700 pounds or more each (other than cows imported specially for dairy purposes) entered in any such period, but not more than 120,000 head of such cattle weighing 700 pounds or more each entered in any 3-month period beginning April 1 , July 1 , October 1, or January 1 within any such 12-month period, shall be dutiable at 1-1/2 cents per pound;
and any of the foregoing cattle not subject to that rate of duty shall be dutiable at......

2-1/24 por lb.

Provided further, That the preceding proviso shall be effective only upon the expiration of 30 days after the President of the United States, after termination of the unlimited
national emergency proclaimed on May 27, 1941 , shall have proclaimed that the abnormal situation in respect of cattle and meats has terminated.

701 Beef and veal, fresh, chilled, or frozen....... 36 per lb.

701 Tallow, inedible................

1/4 per lb.

702 Mutton, and goat meat , fresh, chilled, or frozen 2-1/26 per lb.

702 Lamb, fresh, chilled, or frozen.

3-1/2 per lb.

703 Swine.......

le per lb.

703 Pork, fresh, chilled, or frozen.....

1-1/4 per lb.

703 Bacon, hams, and shoulders, and other pork, pre-

pared or preserved, but not including any of

the foregoing if cooked, boned, packed in air-

tight containers, or made into sausages of

any kind.

26 per lb.

22

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT . 30, 1947

A1227

SCHEDULE X - UNITED STATES OF Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of 1930 , pararaph

Description of Products

704

Venison, fresh, chilled, or fromen, not special-

ly provided for....

704.

Other game (except birds ) , fresh, chilled, oe

frozen, not specially provided for........................

706

Edible animal livers , kidneys, tongues , hearts,

sweetbreads , tripe, and brains , fresh,

ohilled , or frozen.....

706

Meats, prepared ar preserved, not specially pro-

vided for (except beef peoked in air-tight

containers and pickled or oured beef or vesl)

707

Whole milk, fresh or sour......

Provided, That not more than an aggregate quantity of 3,000,000 gallons of such milk entered in any calendar year shall be dutiable at 2 cents per gallon; and any such milk not subJect to that rate of duty shall be dutiable at

707

Cream, fresh or sour...

Provided, That not more than an aggregate quantity of 1,500,000 gallons of such oream entered in any calendar year shall be dutiable at 20 oents per gallon; and any such oream not subJeot to that rate of duty shall be dutiable at

707

Skimmed milk, fresh or sour, and buttermilk.....

708(a)

Milk, condensed and evaporated : In air-tight containers, unsweetened. In air-tight containers , sweetened. ..... All other....

708(b) Dried whole milk.

Rate of Duty
1-1/2 per lb.
per lb. 1-1/26 per lb.,
but not less than 7-1/2% ad val. 3 per lb. , but not less then 10% ad val. 24 per gal.
6-1/24 per gal. 20% per gal.
56-6/10p per gal. 1-1/26 per gal.
16 per lb. 1-3/44 per lb. 1-1/24 per lb. 3-1/10% per lb.

A1228

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

708(b) Dried cream

6-1/56 per lb.

708(b) | Dried skimmed milk and dried buttermilk .

1-1/26 per lb.

709 Butter, when entered during the period from November 1, in any year, to the following March 31, inclusive .....

76 per lb.

Provided, That not more than 50,000,000 pounds of butter entered during the period from November in any year, to the following March 31, inclu-
sive , shall be dutiable at 7 cents per pound; and any butter not subject to that rate of duty shall be dutiable at ......

146 per lb.

709 Oleomargarine and other butter substitutes

· 76 per lb.

710 Cheese : Roquefort, in original loaves

34 per lb. , but not less than

15% ad val.

Blue-mold, in original loaves ...

56 per lb. , but not loss than

25% ad vol.

Cheddar , not processed otherwise than by division into pieces .............................

3-1/24 per lb. , but not less

than 17-1/2%8 ad val.

Edan and Gouda :

Containing 40 per centum or more of butterfat ....

3-1/2 per lb. , but not less

then 15. ad val.

Other

5 per lb. , but not less than

25% ad val.

Bryndza , in casks , barrels , or hogsheads ,

3-1/26 per lb.,

weighing with their contents more than 200

but not loss

pounds cach

than 17-1/2% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1229

SCHEDULE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, para graph

Description of Products

711 Birds, live:
Chickens , ducks , geese , turkeys , and guineas .....
Baby chicks of poultry
Birds not specially provided fors Song birds: Valued at $5 or less each Valued at more than $5 eagh Other ( except Bobwhite quail valued at $5 or less each) : Valued at $ 2.50 or less each .... Valued at more than $2.50 each

712 Birds , dead, dressed or undressed, fresh , chilled, or frozen: Chickens , ducks , geese , and guineas ..... Other (except turkeys ) ......
712 Birds (except turkeys) , prepared or preserved in any manner and not specially provided for ....
713 Eggs of poultry in the shell: Eggs of chickens
Other

713 Whole eggs , egg yolk, and egg albumen, frozen or

otherwise prepared or preserved , and not

specially provided for , whether or not sugar

or other material is added

.....

713 Dried whole eggs , dried egg yolk, and dried egg albumen, whether or not sugar or other material is added .....

714 Horses unless imported for immediate slaughter: Valued at not more than $ 150 per head Valued at more than $150 per head .....

Rate of Duty
24 per lb. 24 each 50 each 10% ad val. 25 each 10% ad val .
34 per lb. 2-1/24 per 1b. 5¢ per lb.
3-1/2¢ per doz .
5¢ per dos.
7¢ per lb.
174 per lb. $10 per head 15% ad val .

95347 0 --49 pt. 5-78

A1230

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

715 Live animals , vertebrate and invertebrate, not

specially provided for:

Silver or black foxes......

15% ad val.

Other (except asses and burros ) ............................ 7-1/2% ad val.

NOTE : Notwithstanding any provision in any item 715, 1519, 1606 , or 1681 of this Part, the United States reserves the right, in the event platinum or platina foxes and furs thereof are not properly classifiable as silver or black foxes
and fox furs, to apply to platinum or platina foxes, furs thereof, and products of such furs the same customs treatment
as shall be applicable to the corresponding silver or black foxes, fox furs, and fox-fur products.

716 Honey....

16 per lb.

717(a)

Fish, fresh or frozen (whether or not packed in ice ), whole, or beheaded or eviscerated or both, but not further advanced (except that the fins may be removed) : Halibut and salmon.... Mackerel..... Swordfish: Fresh..... Frozen........ Other fish, not specially provided for: Bels, shad, sturgeon , cod, haddock, hake, pollock, and cusk.... Fresh-water fish.....

1/2 per lb. 3/46 per lb.
16 per lb. 1-1/24 per lb.
1/26 per lb. 1/2 per lb.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1231

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, gpraarpa-h

Description of Products

717(b)

Fish, fresh or frozen (whether or not prcked in
ice ) , filleted, skinned, boned, sliced, or
divided into portions , not specially provided for:
Cod, haddock, hake, pollock, cusk, and rosefish.............................

Provided, That of cod, haddock, hake , pollock, cusk, and rosefish of the foregoing description, entered in any calendar year, not more than an aggregate quantity of 15,000,000 pounds, or not more than a quantity equal to
15 per centum of the average aggregate apparent annual consumption of such fish during the 3 calendar years immediately prece ding the year in which the imported fish are entered, whichever quantity is greater, shall be dutiable at 1-7/8 cents per pound. Of the
total quantity of such rish entitled to entry at the rate of 1-7/8 cents per pound in any calendar year, not more than one-fourth shall
be so entitled during the first 3 months, not more than one-half during the first 6 months, and not more than three-fourths during the first 9 months of that year. Any such fish
not subject to the rate of 1-7/8 cents per pound shall be dutiable at......... ............................
For the purpose of this proviso, "apparent consumption" shall be the sum of (a) the production in the United States of fresh and frozen fillets, steaks, and sticks of the named fish as defined on the date of
this Agreement, and as reported by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service , (b) the quantity of such fillets, steaks, and sticks entered into the Unit: d States free of duty
under paragraph 1730 ( a) , Tariff Act of 1930, |'] and ( c ) the quantity of the named fish entered into the United States and provided for in paragraph 717 (b) , Tariff Act of 1930.

Rate of Duty 1-7/8 per lb. 1-1/24 per 1b.
2-1/2 per 1b.

1 [46 Stat. 679; 19 U. S. C. § 1201.]

A1232

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE

NITED STATES AMERICA

Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, gpraarap-h

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

717(c) Fish, dried and unsalted: Cod, haddook, haks, pollock, cusk, and other fish (except shark fins)..........

5/8 per lb.

718(a)

Fish, prepared or preserved in any manner, when packed in oil or in oil and other substances
(except sardines, anchovies, tuna, antipasto, bonito, yellowtail, and smoked pollock):
Valued at not over 9 cents per pound, including the weight of the immediate container....
Valued at over 9 cents per pound, including the weight of the immediate container....

22% að val. 15% ad vale

718(a)

Sardines, neither sidinmod nor boned but otherwise prepared or preserved in any manner, when packed in oil or in oil and other substances: Valued at not over 15 cents per pound, including the weight of the immediate container........ Valued at over 13 but not over 18 cents per
pound, including the weight of the immediate container.....
Valued at over 18 but not over 25 cents par pound, including the weight of the immediate container....
Valued at over 25 cents per pound, including the weight of the immediate con-tainer.......

44% ad val. 30% ad val. 20% ad val. 15% ad val.

718(b)

Fish (except anchovies), prepared or preserved in any manner, when packed in air-tight con-

tainors woighing with their contents not more

than fifteen pounds each (except fish packed

in oil or in oil and other substances):

Salmon..

Herring, smoked or kippered or in tomato

sauce, packed in immediate containers

weighing with their contents more than

one pound each.. Other....

.... ..........

25% ad val.
10% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1233

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

719(1) (2),

Fish, pickled or salted (except fish packad in oil or in oil and other substances and except
fish packed in air-tight containers weighing with their contents not more than fifteen
pounds each): Salmon... Ood, haddock, hake, pollook, and cusk: Neither skinned nor boned (except that the vertebral column may be removed): When containing not more than 45 per centum of moisture by weight......... When containing more than 43 per oentum of moisture by weight... Skimed or boned, whether or not dried Herring and mackerel, whether or not boned: In bulk or in immediate containers
weighing with their contents more than fifteen pounds each....... In immediate containers (not air-tight) weighing with their contents not more than fifteen pounds each:
Herring...... Mackerel... Alewives : In bulk or in immediate containers weighing with their contents more
than fifteen pounds each...................... In immediate containers (not air-tight)
weighing with their contents not more than fifteen pounds each......
Other fish (not including alewives) : In bulk or in immediate containers
weighing with their contents more than fifteen pounds each................ In immediate containers (not air-tight) weighing with their contents not
more than fifteen pounds each.......

10% ad val.
1/2 per lb. 1/4 per lb. 1-1/4 per lb.
1/24 per lb. lot wt.
15% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val.
1/2 per lb. net wt.
15% ad val.
16 per lb. net wt.
15% ad val.

A1234

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

720( Fish, smoked or dippered (except fiah packed in oil or in oil and other substances and except
fish peaked in air-tight containers weighing with their contents not more than fifteen

-pounds each): Salmon.
Herring: Whole or beheaded, but not further ad-
vanced:
Hard dry-smoked..... Other......... Eviscerated, split, skinned, boned, or divided into portions.... Cod, haddook, hake , pollook, and cusk: Whole, or beheaded or eviscerated or
both, but not further advanced (except that the vertebral column may
be removed).......... Filleted, skinned, boned, sliced, or
divided into portions............... Othor fish.....

10% ad val.
1/26 per lb. le per lb. 1-1/4 per lb.
lé per lb. 1-1/2 per lb. 10% ad val.

720(6)

Mah, prepared or preserved, not specially provided for: In immediate containers weighing with their
contents not more than fifteen pounds each.........
In bulk or in immediate containers, weighing with their contents more than fifteen
pounds each..

12-1/2% ad val.
16 per lb. net wt.

721(b) Razor elams (Siliqua patula), packed in airtight containers.....

721(c) Fish paste and fish sauce................

721 (a)

Caviar and other fish roc for food purposes (except sturgeon ), boiled and packed in air-tight containers, whether or not in bouillon or sauce.......

10% ad val. 15% ad val.
15% ad val.

721(e) Oysters, oyster juice, or either in combination with other substances, packed in air-tight containers................

4 per lb. , including weight of immediate container

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1235

SCHEDULE X - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

722 Barley, hulled or unhulled.....

722 Barley malt.. 722 Pearl barley................. 722 Patent barley and barley flour................ 723 Buckwheat , hulled or unhulled........ 723 Buckwheat flour and grits or groats.... 726 Oats, hulled or unhulled....

726 Unhulled ground oats....
726 Oatmeal , rolled oats, oat grits, and similar oat products..................

727 Broken rice , which will pass readily through a metal sieve perforated with round holes five and one-half sixty-fourths of one inch in diameter......
727 Rice meal, flour, polish, and bran.... 728 Rye.......
728 Rye malt ...... 728 Rye flour and meal.. 729 Wheat...
729 Wheat, unfit for human consumption.....

Rate of Duty
7-1/2 per bu. of 48 lb.
30 per 100 lb. 1/2 per lb. 24 per lb. 10 per 100 lb. 1/56 per lb. 4 pcr bu. of
32 lb. 25 per 100 lb. 10% ad val. , but
not less than 40% nor more than 80% per 100 lb.
5/16 por lb. 5/16 per lb. 6 per bu. of
56 lb.
30 per 100 lb. 30 per 100 lb. 21 per bu. of
60 lb. 5% ad val.

A1236

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.



SCHEDULE · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

729 Wheat flour, semolina, crushed or cracked wheat,

and similar wheat products not specially pro-

vided for..........................

52 por 100 lb.

730 Bran, shorts, by-product feeds obtained in mill-

ing wheat or other cereals...................

2-1/2% ad val.

730 Hulls of oats, barley, buckwheat, or other grains, ground or unground......

2-1/24 per 100 lb.

730 Dried beet pulp....................

$1.90 per ton

730 Malt sprouts and brewers ' grains.....

$1.25 per ton

730 Soy bean oil cake and soy bean oil-cake meal , and peanut oil cake and peanut oil-cake meal.. 3/206 per lb.

730 Mixed feeds, consisting of an admixture of grains or grain products with oil cake, oilcake meal, molasses, or other feedstuffs...... 5% ad val.

731 Screenings, scalpings, chaff, or scourings of wheat, flaxseed, or other grains or seeds: Unground, or ground................

2-1/2% ad val.

732 Cereal breakfast foods, and similar cereal prep-

arations, by whatever name known, processed

further than milling, and not specially pro-

vided for...............

10% ad val.

735 Biscuits, wafers, cake, cakos, and similar baked

articles, and puddings, all the foregoing by

whatever name known, whether or not containing

chocolate, nuts, fruits, or confectionery of

any kind....

10% ad val.

734 Apples: Green or ripe.......
Dried, desiccated, or evaporated.......... Otherwise prepared or preserved, and not
specially provided for......

12-1/2 per bu, of 50 lb.
le per lb.
1-1/4 per lb.

735 Apricots, dried, desiccated, or evaporate.d..... le per lb.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1237

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

736 Berries, edible: In their natural condition or in brine:
Strawberries, when entered during the
period from June 15 to September 15, inclusive, in any year........................................ Loganberries and raspberries, when entered during the period from July 1 to August 31 , inclusive , in any year........ Blueberries.... Lingon or partridge berries... Other...... Prepared or preserved, or frozen, and not specially provided for: Blueberries............ Other.....

757(1) and
(4)

Cherries: In their natural state, not in air-tight or water-tight containers................ Maraschino, candied, crystallized, or glace, or prepared or preserved in any manner...

738 Cider.....

738 Malt vinegar.................
739 Grapefruit and other fruit peel (not including orange peel and lemon peel ), crude , dried, or in brine...

741 Jujubes, prepared or preserved, not specially provided for.......
742 Grapes in bulk, crates, barrels or other packages : Hothouse....

Rate of Duty
1/2 per lb.
1/2 per lb. 16 per lb. 3/8 por lb. 3/4 per lb.
10% ad val. 14% ad val.
1/2 per lb. 7 per lb. and
10% ad val. 3 per gal. 2 per proof gal
1-1/24 per lb.
17-1/2% ad val.
12-1/2 por ou. ft. of such bulk or the capacity of the packages, according as imported

A1238

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

742 Grapes in bulk, crates, barrels or other pack-

con.

ages: (continued)

Other:

When entered during the period from

February 15 to June 30, inclusive,

in any year.....

When entered during the period from July 1, in any year, to the following February 14, inclusive......

745 Peaches: Green, ripe , or in brine : When entered uring the period from June 1 to November 30, inclusive, in any year........ Other......... Prepared or preserved, and not specially provided for...
747 Pineapples, prepared or preserved, and not specially provided for......
748 Plums, prunes, and prunelles, prepared or preserved, and not specially provided for........
749 Pears, prepared or preserved, and not specially provided for................
750 Avocados or avocado pears, also known as alligator pears...
751 Orange marmalade...

Rate of Duty
6-1/4 per cu. ft. of such bulk or the capacity of the packages, according as imported
17-1/2 per ou. ft. of such bulk or the capacity of the packages, according as importe d
1/2 per lb. 1/4 per lb.
3/4 per lb.
17-1/2% ad val.
20% ad val.
7-1/2 per lb. 16% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1239

SCHEDULE X UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

751 Guava jelly and guava marmalade....

10% ad val.

751 Currant and other berry jellies..................

10% ad val.

752 Fruits (except watermelons ) in their natural

state, not specially provided for:

Cantaloups, when entered during the period

from August 1 to September 15, inclusive,

in any year...

25% ad val.

Melons, other than cantaloups, when entered

during the period from December 1, in any

year, to the following May 31, inclusive 17-1/2% ad val.

Fruits, other than melons.....

17-1/2% ad val.

752 Fruits in brine , pickled, dried, desiccated,

evaporated, or otherwise prepared or preserved, and not specially provided for, and mixtures

of two or more fruits, prepared or preserved: Bananas, dried, desiccated, or evaporated.. 9% ad val.

All other (except guavas, prepared or pre-

served)....

17-1/2% ad val.

752 Fruit pastes and fruit pulps (except mango paste and pulp and guava paste and pulp) ........... 17-1/2% ad val.

758 Candied, orystallized, or glace aprioots , figs,

dates, peaches, pears, plums, prunes, prunelles, berries, and other fruits, not

specially provided for......

15% ad val.

755 Tulip bulbs.....

$3 per 1000

755 Hyacinth bulbs.......

$2 per 1000

755 Narcissus bulbs...

$5 per 1000

755 Crocus corms...

50% per 1000

755 All other bulbs, roots, rootstocks, clumps , corms, tubers, and herbaceous perennials, imported for horticultural purposes and not specifically provided for..................

10% ad val.

A1240

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE

BITED STATES MERTOA

Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of 1950,
paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

755 Cut flowers, fresh, dried, prepared, or presarve di .
Orchids...... Other.......

25% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val.

754 Seedlings and cuttings of Manetti, multiflora, brier, rugosa, and other rose stock, all the foregoing not more than three years old..... $1 per 1000

754 Rose plants, budded, grafted, or grown on their

own roots......

sach

754 Cuttings, seedlings, and grafted or budded

plants of other deciduous or evergreen ornamental trees, shrubs, or vines, and all

nursery or greenhouse stock, not specially

provided for:

Orchid plants......

7-1/21 ad val.

Other....

12-1/2% ad val.

755 Seedlings, layers, and cuttings of apple, cherry, pear, plum, quince, and other fruit stocks.... $2 per 1000

755 Grafted or buddod fruit trees, cuttings and

seedlings of grapes, currants, gooseberries, or other fruit vines, plants or bushes......

12-1/2% ad val.

756 Chestnuts (including morrons ), candied, crystal-

lized, or glace, or prepared or preserved in

any manner....

8 per lb.

757 Cream or Brazil nuts: Not shelled... Shelled......

5/8 par lb. 1-1/8 per 1b.

758 Coconuts.......

1/8 each

758 Coconut meat, shredded and desiccated, or similarly prepared.....

1-3/4 per lb.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1241

CHEDULE

NITED STATES OF AMERICA

Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

760 Walnuts of all kinds: Shelled..
Blanobed, roasted, prepared, or preserved (except walnut paste ).......
Provided, That not more than an aggregate quantity of 5,000,000 pounds of shelled, blanched, roasted, prepared, or preserved walnuts (except walnut paste ) entered in any calendar year shall be dutiable at 7-1/2 cents per pound; and any such nuts not subject to that rate of duty shall be dutiable at.......

761 Edible nuts, not specially provided for (except pignolia nuts); Pistache : Not sholled.... Shelled. Other : Not shelled. ............. Shelle.d.......

761 Cashew nuts, shelled or unshelled......

761 Edible nuts, pickled, or otherwise prepared or preserved, and not specially provided for.....

762 011-bearing seeds and materials : Castor beans...................................

Apricot and peach kernels.......... Soy beans............

Rate of Duty
7-1/24 per lb. 7-1/2 per lb.
15 per lb.
5/8 per lb. 1-1/4 per 1b. 1-1/46 per 1b. 2-1/24 por lb. 1-1/24 per lb. 17-1/2% ad val. 1/4 per lb. 86 por 100 lb. 1-1/2 per 1b. 1 per lb.

A1242

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X- NITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930,
paragraph

Description of Products

763 Grass seeds and other forage crop seeds:

Alfalfa...... Alsike olover............................................................................

Crimson clover..........................................................

Red olover.......................................................................... White and ladino clover...................................................

Sweat clover...................

Clover, not specially provided for... Hillet.......

Rye grass.........

........

Timothy.....

Bent-grass (genus agrostis ). Bluegrass...

Grass and forage crop seeds not specially

provided for....................

764 Other garden and field seeds:
Beet (except sugar beet ).. Cabbage....................... Carrot............................................... . Cauliflower...........................................................................................
Celery.....

Kohlrabi.... Mangelwursel.. Parsley.. Parsnip....
Radish.. Spinach....... Tree and shrub............
Turnip......................................................................................... Rutabaga.. Flower.... Garden and field seeds not specially pro-
vided for: Niger seed.. Other.....

785 Beans, not specially provided for:
Dried, when entered for consumption during the period from May 1 to August 31, inalusive, in any year: Red Hidney .............. Other .......
In brine ...............

Rate of Duty
2 per lb. 21 per lb. 1 per lb.
per lb. 4 per lb. 16 per lb. 24 per lb. 1/26 per 1b. 1-1/2 per 1b. 1/2 per lb. 156 per lb. 2 per lb.
1 per lb.
24 per lb. 56 per lb. Se per lb.
per lb. lb. lb. lb.
1 per lb. per lb. par lb. per lb. per lb.
1/2 par lb. Se per lb. 2 per lb. 2 per lb.
per lb.
1-1/2 per lb. 2 per lb.
24 1-1/24 per lb. 1-1/24 per 1b.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1243

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

766 Beets, other than sugar beets.... 767 Lentils..

10% ad val. 1/4 per lb.

768 Mushrooms: Fresh....

5 per lb. and

25% ad val.

Prepared or preserved, other than dried... 5 per lb. on

drained weight

and 15% ad val.

769 Peas:

Green or unripe :

When entered during the period from

July 1 to September 30, inclusive, in any year..... Other......

le per lb. 2 per lb.

Split...........

..........

Prepared or preserved in any manner...

7/8 per lb. 1 per lb. le per lb. on
the entire contents of the container

769 Chickpeas or garbanzos, prepared or preserved in le per lb. on

any manner.....

the entire contents of

the container

770 Onions, except onion sets.... 770 Garlic..

1-3/4 per lb. 3/4 per lb.

A1244

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff: Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

771 White or Irish seed potatoes, certified by a

responsible officer or agency of a foreign government in accordance with the official

rules and regulations of that government to

have been grown and approved especially for use as seed, in containers marked with the

foreign government's official certified seed potato tags...

37-1/2 per 100 lb.

Provided, That the quantity of such potatoes entitled to entry at such rate of duty shall not exceed --
for the period from January 1 to September 14, inclusive, in 1948, 2,500,000 bushels
of 60 pounds each, less the quantity of such potatoes entered and subject to duty at a tariff-quota rate during the period from September 15 to December 31, inclusive, in 1947, or for any 12-month period beginning on September 15 in 1948 or any subsequent year , 2,500,000 bushels of 60 pounds each; and any such potatoes not subject to that rate of duty shall be dutiable at.........

75% per 100 lb.

771 White or Irish potatoes, other than certified
seed potatoes, as defined in the preceding item.....

37-1/2 per 100 1b.

Provided, That the quantity of such potatoes entitled to entry at such rate of duty shall not exceed --
for the period from January 1 to September 14, inclusive , in 1948, 1,000,000 bushels
of 60 pounds each, less the quantity of such potatoes entered and subject to duty at a tariff-quota rate during the period from September 15 to December 31, inclu-
sive , in 1947, or for any 12-month period beginning on
September 15 in 1948 or any subsequent year, 1,000,000 bushels of 60 pounds
each; and any such potatoes not subject to that rate of duty shall be dutiable at...

75 per 100 lb.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1245

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff hot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

771 White or Irish potatoes, other than certified

oon.

seed potatoes, eto. (continued)

Provided further, That if for any calendar year
the production of white or Irish potatoes, including seed potatoes , in the United States, according to the estimate made as of September 1 by the United States Department of Agriculture, is less than 350,000,000 bushels of 60 pounds each, an additional quantity of such potatoes, other than certified seed potatoes, equal to the amount by which such estimated production is less than 350,000,000 bushels may be entered during the 12-month period beginning on September 15 of that year at.....

37-1/2 per 100 lb.

Provided further, That in competing the quantities of imports specified in the two foregoing provisos white or Irish potatoes produced in the Republic of Cuba shall not be included.

771 White or Irish potatoes, dried, dehydrated, or desiccated........

1-1/2 per lb.

772 Tomatoes in their natural state , when entered
during the period from July 15 to August 31 , inclusive , in any year.....

1-1/2 per lb.

773 Turnips and rutabagas.

6-1/4 per 100 lb.

774 Vegetables in their natural state :

Cucumbers , when entered during the period

from July 1 to August 31 , inclusive , in

any year.....

1-1/2 per lb.

Celery:

When imported and entered during the

period from April 15 to July 31,

inclusive , in any year..............

1/2 per lb.

Other....

le per lb.

Lettuce , when entered during the period from

June 1 to October 31 , inclusive , in any

year..

le per lb.

95347 0--49- pt. 5- -79

A1246

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

774 Vegetables in their natural state: (continued)

con.

Cabbage ..

Not specially provided for:

Carrots....

Radishes, when entered during the

period from July 1 to August 31, inclusive , in any year.....

Cauliflower, when entered during the

period from June 5 to August 5, inclusive, in any year... Other.....

775 Cucumbers, if pickled, or packed in brine..
975 Onions, if pickled, or packed in brine ....
775 Vegetables (including horseradish), if cut, sliced, or otherwise reduced in size , or if reduced to flour, or if parched or roasted, or packed in oil, or prepared or preserved in any other way (except if pickled or packed in salt or brine) and not specinily provided for.......
775 Sauces of all kinds, not specially provided for..
775 Soy beans, prepared or preserved in any manner; bean stick, miso, bean cake, and similar products, not specially provided for; soups, soup rolls, soup tablets or cubes , and other soup preparations, composed of vegetables, or of vegetables and meat or fish, or both, not specially provided for....

775 Sauerkraut....

776 Chicory, cruda : Endive.....
Other......

776 Chicory, ground, or otherwise prepared....

777(a) Cocoa and chocolate, unsweetened ..

Rate of Duty
3/4 por lb. 12-1/2% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val. 25% ad val. 25% ad val. 15 % ad val.
17-1/2% ad val. 17-1/2% ad val.
17-1/2% ad val. 12-1/26 ad val. 3/4 per lb. le per lb. 2-1/2 per lb. le per lb. on
net wt.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A1247

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

777(b)

Cocoa and chocolate, sweetened: In bars or blocks weighing ten pounds or more each........
In any other form, whether or not prepared, valued at 10 cents or more per pound.....

777(c) Cacao butter .....

778 Ginger root, candied, or otherwise prepared or preserved..
779 Hay ..

779 Straw...

780 Hops, valued at 50 cents or more per pound......

780 Lupulin...

781 Spices and spice seeds : Cassia, cassia buds , and cassia vera,

ground....

Cloves, ground.

Clove stems , ground..

Cinnamon and cinnamon chips , ground.. Ginger root , not preserved or candied,

ground...

Mace , ground.. Bombay, or wild mace , ground.

Mustard seeds (whole ) ....

Mustard, ground or prepared in bottles or

otherwise...................... . ........

Nutmegs, ground...

........

Pepper, capsicum or red pepper or cayenne

pepper, ground......

....

Black or white pepper, ground..

Pimento (allspice ), ground.

Sage, ground.....

Curry and curry powder..

Rate of Duty
1-1/2 per lb. 15% ad val. 6-1/4% ad val.
8% ad val. $1.25 per ton
of 2000 lb.
50 per ton of 2000 lb.
12 per lb. 75 per lb.
36 per lb. 3 per lb. 3 per lb. 3 per lb. 2 per lb. 4 per lb. 156 per lb. 1-1/4 per lb. 56 per lb. 3 per lb. 6 per lb. 3 per lb. 26 per lb. 3 per lb. 2 per lb.

A1248

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SOHRDULK XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

781 Spices and spice seeds : (continued)

con.

Mixed spices, and spices and spice seeds

not specially provided for, including all

herbs or herb leaves in glass or other

small packages , for culinary use (except

bay leaves and marjoram leaves ) ........

782 Teasels , not bleached, colored, dyed, painted, or chemically treated...

Rate of Duty
12-1/2% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT, 30, 1947

A1249

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued )

Tariff Act of 1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

802 Slivowitz and all other brandy , gin ,
cordials , liqueurs , kirschwasser , and ratafia

802 Whiskey

802 Bitters of all kinds containing spirits
Provided, That whenever imported bitters are subject to a Federal tax on the alcoholic content measured in whole or in part by the rate of the internal Federal tax imposed in respect of the alcohol contained in the like domestic products , such bitters shall be dutiable at
802 Rum

803 Champagne and all other sparkling wines : Valued at not more than $ 6 per
gallon ...... Valued at more than $6 per gallon ..

804 Still wines produced from grapes (not including vermuth) , containing 14 per centum or less of absolute alcohol by volume :
In containers holding each 1 gallon or less .......
In containers holding each more than 1 gallon ....

804 Vermuth:

In containers holding each 1 gallon

or less

.....

In containers holding each more than

1 gallon

Rate of Duty
$1.25 per proof gal.
$1.50 per proof gal ,
$2.50 per proof gal .
$1.25 per proof gal .
$2.25 per proof gal .
$2 per gal . $1.50 per
gal .
40% per gal . 75% per gal.
50% per gal . 75¢ per gal .

A1250

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Froducts

804 Still wines ( except still wines produced from grapes ) , including ginger wine or ginger cordial , and similar beverages not specially provided for (not including rice wine or sake )

805 Ale , porter , stout , and beer

Provided, That whenever the oregoing products are subject to a Federal tax measured in whole or in part by the rate of the internal Federal tax im-
posed in respect of the like domestic
products , the foregoing products shall be dutiable at

806 (a) Cherry juice , prune juice , or prune wine , and all other fruit juices and fruit sirups , not specially provided for : Containing less than one-half of 1 per centum of alcohol (except naranjilla (solanum quitoense lam)) Containing one-half of 1 per centum or more of alcohol (except citrus-
fruit juices)

Rate of Duty
62-1/2 per gal.
25% per gal ,
12-1/2 per gal,
20% per gal, 35% per gal .
and in addition thereto $2,50 per proof gal . on the alcohol contained there in

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE --OCT. 30, 1947

A1251

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

806(b) Concentrated juice of citrus fruits , fit for beverage purposes , and sirups containing any of the foregoing , all the foregoing, whether in liquid , powdered , or solid form: Lime
Lemon, orange , and other ( except naranjilla (solanum quitoense lam) )'

20% per gal . on the
quantity of unconcentrated natural fruit juice contained therein as shown by chemical
analysis 35p per gal.
on the
quantity of uneoncentrated natural Fruit juice contained therein as shown by chemical
analysis

807 Berries and fruits of all kinds , prepared $2.50 per

or preserved in any manner, containing one-half of 1 per centum or more of aloohol

proof gal . on the al-
ophol contained

therein , in

addition to

any other

duty

A1252

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued )

Tariff Aot of
1930,
pararaph

Description of Products

808 Ginger ale , ginger beer , lemonade , soda water, and similar beverages containing no alcohol , and beverages containing less than one -half of 1 per centum of alcohol , not specially provided for ...

809 All mineral waters and all imitations of natural mineral waters , and all artifioial mineral waters , not specially provided for ...........................

810 When any article provided for in Schedule 8 , Tariff Act of 1930 , ' is imported ir bottles or jugs , the duty shall be collected upon the bottles or jugs at .....

Rate of Duty
5 per gal .
5 per gal . 1/3 the rate
provided on the bottles or Jugs if imperted empty or separately

¹ [46 Stat . 639; 19 U. S. C. § 1001. ]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1253

SCHEDULE XX- UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued )

Tariff
Aot of
1930,
paragraph

Description of Products

901 (a ) Cotton yarn , including warps , in any form, not bleached , dyed , colored , combed, or plied : of numbers not exceeding number 60 ..

of numbers exceeding number 60 .***
901 (b) Cotton yarn , including warps , in any form , bleached , dyed , colored , combed , or plied : of numbers not exceeding number 60 ..

of numbers exceeding number 60 ...4 902 Cotton sewing thread

992 Crochet , daining , embroidery, and knitting cottons , put up for handwork, in lengths not exceeding eight hundred and forty yards

Rate of Duty
5% ad val. and, in addition thereto , for each number , 1/4 of 1% ad val .
20% ad val ,
10% ad val . and , in addition thereto , for each number , 1/4 of 1% ad val .
25% ad val,
1/4 per 100 yds ,, but not less than 10% nor more than 20% ad val .
1/4 per 100 yds . , but not less than 10% nor more than 25% ad val .

A1254

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued )

Tariff Aot of 1930 ,
FPraraap-h

Description of Products

904(a) Cotton cloth, not bleached, printed , dyed , or colored , containing yarns the average number of which --
Does not exceed number 80 , if valued
at more than 70 cents per pound ..

Exceeds number 80 but does not exceed number 102 , if valued at more than 70 cents per pound ; or ex-
ceeds number 1 : 2 , regardless of value

904 ( a ) The minimum rate of duty on any cotton cloth, not bleached, printed , dyed, or colored , to be imposed under paragraph 904 (a ) , Tariff Act of 1930 , shall be

904 (b)

Cotton cloth, bleached , containing yarns the average number of which 61 Does not exceed number 6 , if valued at more than 80 cents per pound ; or exceeds number 6 but does not
exceed number 8 , if valued at more than $1.20 per pound ....

Exceeds number 80 but does not exceed number 90, if valued at more than $1.20 per pound ; or exceeds number 90, regardless of value

Rate of Duty
7-1/2% ad val . and, in addition thereto, for each number, 1/4 of 1% ad val .
27-1/2% ad val.
4/10 per average number per 1b.
10% ad val . and, in addition thereto, for each number, 1/4 of 1% ad val .
30% ad val .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE--OCT. 30, 1947

A1255

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Froducts

904 (c )

Cotton cloth, printed , dyed , or colored , containing yarns the average number of which --
Does not exceed number 60 , if va ) ued at more than 90 cents per pound ; or exceeds number 60 but does not exceed number 80 , if valued at more than $1.40 per pound

Exceeds number 80 but does not exceed number 90 , if valued at more than $1.40 per pound ; or
exceeds number 90 , regardless of value

904 ( d )

The additional duty to be levied , collected , and paid under paragraph 904 ( d ) , Tariff Act of 1930 , on cotton cloth woven with eight or more harnesses , or with Jacquard , lappet , or swivel attachments , or with two or more colors or kinds of filling, shall be

905

Cloth, in chief value of cotton , con-

taining silk , or rayon or other synthetic textile , shall be classified

for duty as cotton cloth under paragraphs 903 and 901 , Tariff Act of

1930 , as modified pursuant to items

904 of this fart or any other effec-

tive trade agreement , and shall be

subject to an additional duty of ...

906

Cloth, in chief value of cotton , con-

taining wool

907

Tracing cloth

Rate of Duty
12% ad val . and , in addition thereto , for each number , 1/4 of 1% ad val.
32% ad val .
2-1/2% ad -vel.
2-1/2% ad val .
30% ad val . 20% ad val ,

A1256

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued )

Tariff
Act of 1930,
paragraph

Description of Products

967 Cotton window hollands , and all oilcloths (except silk oilcloths and oilcloths for floors ) ; filled or coated cotton
cloths not specially provided for ; and waterproof cloth, wholly or in chief value of cotton or other vegetable fiber, whether or not in part of India rubber

908 Tapestries and other Jacquard-figured upholstery cloths (not including pile fabrics or bed ticking ) in the piece or otherwise , wholly or in chief value of cotton or other vegetable fiber ....

909 Pile fabrics (not including pile ribbons ) , cut or uncut , whether or not the pile covers the entire surface , wholly or in chief value of cotton : Twill-back velveteens

Velvets .....

Corduroys , 52 inches or more in

width , valued at 50 cents or more

per square yard ..... Plushes and chenilles .......

Terry-woven ......

........

Rate of Duty
12-1/2% ad val .
40% ad val .
25 per sq. yd . , but not less than 25% nor more than 44% ad val .
35% ad val .
30% ad val . 25% ad val . 22-1/2 per
lb. , but not less than 20% nor more than 35% ad val .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1257

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , paratranh

Description of Products

909 Pile ribbons , cut or uncut , whether or

not the pile covers the entire surface , wholly or in chief value of cotton:

Velveteens or velvets , exceeding

12 inches in width ...... .....

Other ......

...

909 All articles , finished or unfinished ,

made or cut from pile fabrics provided for in paragraph 909 , Tariff Act of 1930 :
Velveteens or velvets :

Velveteen polishing cloths , valued at 60 cents or more

per square yard ...... 6ther

Plushes or chenilles ...... ....

Terry-woven .......

... ...

910 Table damask , wholly or in chief value of cotton, and all articles , finished or unfinished , made or cut from such table damask; all the foregoing valued at 75 cents or more per pound ......
911 (a ) Towels , other than pile fabrics , wholly or in chief value of cotton , whether in the piece or otherwise , if Jacquardfigured, and valued at 10 cents or more each

Rate of Duty
35% ad val. 25% ad val.
25% ad val. 40% ad val . 25% ad val, 22-1/2 per
lb. , but not less than 20% nor mor than 35% ad val. 22-1/2 per lb. , but not less than 17-1/2% nor more than 30% ad val.
22-1/8 per lb. , but not less than 20% nor more than 35% ad val.

A1258

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX 3 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph

Description of Froducts

911 (b) Sheets and pillowcases , wholly or in chief value of cotton .......

Rate of Duty 20% ad val.

911 (b) Polishing cloths , dust cloths , and mop cloths , wholly or in chief value of cotton, not made of pile fabrics
912 Tubings , wholly or in chief value of cotton , or of cotton ord india rubber , and not specially provided for
912 Garters , suspenders , and braces , wholly or in chief value of cotton or of cotton and india rubber , and not specially provided for ....
912 Spindle banding , and lamp and stove wicking; labels , for garments or other articles ; all the foregoing wholly or in chief value of cotton or other vegetable fiber

15% ad val . 25% ad val. 20% ad val. 15% ad val .

915 (a)

Belts and belting , for machinery: Wholly or in chief value of cottor or other vegetable fiber , and not in part of india rubber ......
Wholly or in chief value of cotton or other vegetable fiber and india rubber , and valued at 40 cents or more per pound ...

15% ad val . 20% ad val.

913(b) Rope used as belting for textile machinery, wholly or in chief value of cotton

15% ad val.

914 Knit fabric , in the piece , wholly or in chief value of cotton or other vege-
table fiber, whether made on a warpknitting machine or on other than a warp-knitting machine

30% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A1259

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued )

Tariff 4ct of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

915 Gloves and mittens , finished or unfinished ,

wholly or in chief value of cotton or other

vegetable fiber, made of knit fabrio, whether $1.50 per dos.

the fabrio was knit on a warp-knitting machine

pairs, but

or on other than a warp-knitting machine ( ex-

not less then

oept gloves and mittens made of fabric knit

30% nor more

on a warp-knitting machine and valued at less

than 60% ad

then $1.50 per dozen pairs) ........

val.

917 Outerwear, and articles of all kinds (not in-

oluding underwear ) , knit or crocheted, finished or unfinished, wholly or in chief value

of cotton or other vegetable fiber , and not

specially provided for : Gloves and mittens .... Other .....

30% ad val. 35% ad val,

919 Clothing and articles of wearing apparel of every

description , manufactured wholly or in part,

wholly or in chief value of cotton, and not

specially provided for :

Coats valued at $4 or more each; vests

valued at $2 or more each; dressing gowns ,

including bathrobes and beach robes, val-

ued at $2.50 or more each; underwear valued at 75 cents or more per separate piece ;

and pajamas valued at $1.50 or more per suit

10% ad val.

20% ad val.

919 Shirt collars and cuffs , of cotton, not specially 15% per dos.

provided for ......

pieces and

5% ad val.

919 Shirts of cotton, not knit or arocheted

25% ad val.

A1260

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

920 Lace window curtains , nets , nettings , pillow shams, and bed sets , and all other fabrics and
articles , by whatever name known , plain or Jacquard-figured, finished or unfinished, wholly or partly manufactured , for any use whatsoever, made on the Nottingham lace-ourtain machine, wholly or in chief value of cotton or other vegetable fiber ..

921 Floor coverings , including carpets , carpeting, mats, and rugs (but not including chenille rugs and rag rugs of the type commonly known as
"hit-and-miss") , wholly or in chief value of cotton :
Cut-pile (not including imitation oriental rugs) and hand-hooked
Imitation oriental rugs ......

923 Manufactures, wholly or in chief value of cotton,
not specially provided for: Terry-woven towels valued at 45 cents or more each

Printers' rubberized blanketing; molded cotton and rubber packing; ladder tapes ; badminton nets ; yarns in chief value of cotton containing wool ; and catheters , drains , bougies, sondes , probes , explorateurs , instillateurs ; and all other urological instruments
Fishing nets valued at 50 cents or more per pound ......

Rate of Duty
40% ad val.
17-1/2 ad val. 10% ad val.
22-1/26 per lb., but not less than 20% nor more than 35,% ad val.
20% ad val. 30% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1261

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued )

Tariff Act of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Froducts

924

All the articles enumerated or described

in Schedule 9 ( except in paragraph 922 ) .

Tariff Act of 1930 , shall be subject to

an additional duty on the cotton con-

tained therein having a staple of one

and one-eighth inches or more in length of

Rate of Duty
5 per lb. , but not less than 1-3/7 times the mostfavorednation rate of ordinary customs duty applicable , when such articles are entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption , to cotton having a staple of 1-1/8 inches or more in
longth

95347 0-49--pt. 5--80

A1262

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 Stat.

SCHEDULE XX -UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, pararaph

Description of Products

1001 Flax straw

1001 Flax: Not hackled ....... Hackled , including " dressed line "..............

1001

Flax tow ...........

1001 Flax noils .....

1001 Crin vegetal , twisted or not twisted

1002 Sliver and roving, of flax, hemp, ramie , or other vegetable fiber , not specially provided for ...

1004(a) Single yarns , of flax, hemp , or ramie , or a mixture of any of them: Not finer than sixty lea Finer than sixty lea .................

1004(b)

Threads , twines , and cords , composed of two or more yarns of flax , hemp , or ramie , or a mix-
ture of any of them, twisted together : If the yarns are wholly or in chief value of flex ......... Other ......

1005(a) and

Cordage , including cables , tarred or untarred, composed of three or more strands , each strand composed of two or more yarns : wholly or in chief value of manila (abeca ): Smaller than three-fourths of one inch in diameter .............................. . Other ..................... .
Wholly or in chief value of sisal : Smaller than three-fourths of one inon in diameter ................ Other
Wholly or in chief value of sunn, or other
bast fiber , but not including cordage made of jute

Kate of Duty
$1.50 per ton
3/4 per lb. 1-1/28 per lb. 1/2 per lb. 1/4 per lb. 1/24 per lb. 10% ad val.
25% ad val. 15% ad val.
30% ad val. 20% ad val.
2 per lb. and 10% ad val.
24 per lb. 1 per lb. and
7-1/2% ad vel. 16 per lb.
3/4 per lb.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A1263

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA PART I ( continued)

Tarifi
Aot of 1930,
peragraph

Description of Products

1005(b) Cords and twines (whether or not composed of three or more strands , each strand composed of
two or more yarns ) , tarred or unterred, single or plied, wholly or in chicf value of menila (abaos ), sisal, henequen, or other hard fiber

1006 Gill nettings , nets, webe , and seines, and other nets for fishing, wholly or in chief value of
flax, hemp, or ramie , and not specially provided for ......................

1008 Woven fabrics, wholly of jute , not specially provided for: Not bloached, printed, stenciled, painted, dyed, colored, or rendered noninflammable
Bleached, printed, stenciled , painted , dyed, colored, or rendered noninflammable

1009(a) Woven fabrics , not including articles finished or unfinished , of flax, homp, or ramie , or of which these substances or any of them is the component material of chief value ( except such as are commonly used as paddings or interlinings in clothing ) , exceeding thirty and not excceding one hundred threads to the square inch, counting the warp and filling, weighing not less than four and not more than twelve
ounces per square yard, and exceeding twelve inches but not exceeding thirty-six inches in width .................

1009(b) Woven fabrics , such as are commonly used for paddings or interlinings in clothing: Wholly or in chief valuo of flax , or hemp, or of which these substances or either of
them is the component material of chief value , exceeding thirty and not exceeding one hundred and twenty threads to the square inch, counting the warp and filling, and weighing not less then four and one-half and not more than twelve ounces
per square yard ...

Rate of Duty 15% ad val. 25% ad val. 1/2 per lb. 1/2 per lb. and
5% ad val.
40% ad val.
15% ad val.

A1264

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tarifi Aot of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

1009(b) con.

Woven fabrics , such as are commonly used for paddings , etc.: (continued ) Wholly or in chief value of jute , exceeding thirty threads to the square inch, counting the warp and filling, and weighing not less than four and one-half ounces and not more than twelve ounces per
square yard

1009(a) Woven fabrics , in the piece or otherwise , wholly or in chief value of vegetable fiber , except
cotton, filled, coated , or otherwise prepared for use as artists ' canvas

1010 Joven fabrics , not including articles finished or unfinished , of flax, hemp, ramie, or other vegetable fiber , except cotton, or of which these substances or any of them is the compo-
nent material of chief value , not specially provided for ..........

1011 Plain-woven fabrics , not including artioles finished or unfinished, wholly or in chief value of flax, hemp, ramie , or other vegetable fiber, except cotton, weighing less than four ounces per square yard
1012 Pile fabrics , whether or not the pile covers the entire surface , wholly or in chief value of vegetable fiber , except cotton, and all artioles, finished or unfinished , made or cut fro such pile fabrics ; all the foregoing, whether the pile is wholly out, wholly uncut , or partly out .....

1013 Table damask, wholly or in chief value of vegetable fiber , except cotton, and all articles , finished or unfinished, made or cut from such damask:
Wholly or in chief value of flax Other .....................

Rate of Duty
15% ad val. 15% ad val. 10% ad val. 10% ad val.
15% ad val. 15% ad val. 22-1/2% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A1265

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph 1014
1014 1015
1015

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Towels and napkins , finished or unfinished, wholly or in chief value of flax, hemp, or ramie , or of which these substances or any of them is the component material of chief value :
Not exceeding one hundred and twenty threads to the square inch, counting the warp and filling: Towels : Exceeding one hundred threads to the square inch, counting the warp and filling...... Other....
Napkins : Wholly or in chief value of flax Other........ ..................
Exceeding one hundred and twenty threads to the square inch, counting the warp and filling: Wholly or in chief value of flax: Towels ...... Napkins...... Other.....

30% ad val. 40% ad val. 15% ad val. 27-1/2% ad val.
10% ad val, 15% ad val. 20% ad val,

Sheets and pillowcases , wholly or in chief value of flax, hemp, or ramie , ar of which these
substances or any of them is the component material of chief value.......

12-1/2% ad val.

Fabrics , with fast edges , not exceeding twelve inches in width, and articles made therefrom (except webbing wholly or in chief value of Jute); tubings, garters, suspenders , braces, cords, tassels , and cords and tassels ; all the foregoing, wholly or in chief value a
vegetable fiber , except cotton, or of vegetable fiber, except cotton, and india rubber..

17-1/2% ad val.

Tapes , wholly or in part of flax, woven with or without metal threads , on reels , spools , ar otherwise , and designed expressly for use in the manufacture of measuring tapes...........

15% ad val.

A1266

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

Rato of Duty

1016 Handkerchiefs, wholly or in chief value of vege-

table fiber, except cotton, finished or unfinished :

Not hemmed....

10% ad val.

Hemmed or hemstitched, or unfinished having

drawn threads .....

25% ad val.

Provided, That any of the foregoing made with hand rolled or hand made hems shall be subject to duty at........

30% ad val. and 1 each

1017 Clothing, and articles of wearing apparel of every

description , wholly or in chief value of vegu-

table fiber , except cotton, and whether manu-

factured wholly or in part, not specially provided for ....

20% ad val.

1017 Shirt collars and cuffs, wholly or in part of flax

10 per doz.
and 2-1/2% ad val.

1018 Bags or sacks made from plain-woven fabrics of single jute yarns or from twilled or other

fabrios wholly of jute :

Not bleached, printed, stenciled, painted,

1/2 per lb.

dyed, colored, or rendered noninflamable . and 5% ad val

Bleached, printed, stenciled, painted , dyed, colored, ar rendered noninflamable....

1/2 per lb. and 7-1/2% ad val.

1019 Bagging for cotton, gunny cloth, and similar fabrics, suitable for covering cotton, composed

of single yarns made of jute , jute butts, ar other vegetable fiber, not bloached, dyed, colored, stained, painted , or printed, not ex-

ceeding sixteen threads to the square inch,

counting the warp and filling:

Weighing not less than fifteen ounces nor

more than thirty-two ounoos per square yard........

6/10 per sq.yd.

Weighing more than thirty-two ounces per square yard...............

3/106 per lb.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1267

SCHEDUTE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph 1020
1020 1020
1021 1021
1021
1022 1022
1023

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

Linoleum: Inlaid.. All other, including cortiaine and cork carpet ....
Floor oilcloth.......
Mats ar rugs made of linoleum or floor oilcloth..

25% ad val.
15% ad val.
10% ad val.
The same rates of duty as above specified far linoleum and floor oilcloth

Common China, Japan, and India straw matting , and floor coverings made therefrom....

1-1/2 por sq.yi.

Carpets, carpeting, mats, matting, and rugs, wholly or in chief value of flax, hemp, or Jute, or a mixture thereof.....

17-1/2% ad val

All other floor coverings not specially provided for :
Felt-base........

12-1/2 ad val. 20% ad val.

Matting and articles made therefrom, wholly a in

chief value of cocoa fiber ar rattan.....

56 per sq. yd.

Pila mts and floor coverings : Wholly a ir. chief value of cocoa fiber.... Wholly or in chief value of rattan.................

106 per sq.ft. per sq.ft.

All manufactures, wholly or in chief value 
vegetable fiber , except cotton, not specially provided for ...

20% ad val,

A1268

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 ,
paragraph

Description of Products

1101 (a) Wools : Donskol , Smyrna, Cordova, Valparaiso , Ecuadorean , Syrian , Aleppo , Georgian , Turkestan , Arabian , Bagdad , Persian , Sistan , East Indian , Thibetan,
Chinese , Manchurian , Mongolian , Egyptian, Sudan, Cyprus , Sardinian , Pyrenean, Oporto , Iceland, Scotch Black-
face , Black Spanish , Kerry, Haslock, and Welsh Mountain ; similar wools without merino or English blood; all other wools of whatever blood or origin not finer than 40s ; all the foregoing:
In the grease or washed ...

Scoured ...

On the skin

Sorted , or mat chings , if not scoured

1101 (a ) Hair of the camel : In the grease or washed
Scoured

On the skin Sorted, or matchings , if not scoured

Rate of Duty
13 per lb. of clean content
16 per lb. of clean content
11 per lb. of clean content
146 per lb. of clean content
12 per lb. of clean content
13-1/2 per lb. of clean con tent
11 per lb. of clean content
12-1/2 per lb. of clean content

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A1269

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued )

Tariff Aot of 1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1101 (b)

Any of the foregoing wools and hair entered , or withdrawn from warehouse , under bond and used only in the manufacture of press cloth , camel's hair belting , knit or felt boots , heavy fulled lumbermen's socks , rugs , carpets , or any other floor coverings ....

Free , subject to the provisions of
paragraph 1101 (b ) , Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (']

1102 (a)

Wools , not specially provided for , not finer than 44s :
In the grease or washed

Scoured

On the skin

Sorted , or matchings , if not scoured .

17 per lb. of clean content
20 per lb. of clean content
15 per lb. of clean content
18 per lb. of clean content

1 [46 Stat. 647; 19 U. S. C. § 1001.]

A1270

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued )

Tarifi Act of
1930 , para-
raph

Description of Products

1102 (b) Wools , not specially provided for : In the grease or washed

Scured On the skin .... Sorted , or matchings , if not scoured .

NOTE: In the event that the rate of
25-1/2 cents per pound of clean content specified in this item for
wools , not specially provided for, in the grease or washed , is superseded by any different rate , the specific part of each rate of duty provided for in items 1106 , 1107 , 1108 , 1109 (a ) , 1109 ( b ) , 1110 , 1111 , 1112 , 1113 , 1114 ( a ) , 1114 (b ) , 1114 (c ) , 1114 ( d ) , 1115 ( a ) , and 1119 of this Part , insofar as it
applies to articles wholly or in chief value of wool of sheep , shall be modified to an amount ( calcu-
lated to the nearest cent per pound ) having the same ratio to the amount of the specific part of the rate stated in this Part as
the ratio of such superseding rate to the said 25-1/2 - cent rate . All such modified rates thus calculated shall be effective on and after the

Rate of Duty
25-1/2 per lb. of clean content
27-3/4 Der lb. of clean content
24 per lb. of clean content
26-1/4 per lb. of clean contunt

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A1271

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of 1930,
paragraph

Description of Products

1102 (b) Wools , not specially provided for: ( con-

oon .

tinued)

NOTE : (continued ) day the superseding rate becomes applicable in lieu of the rate of 25-1/2 cents per pound of clean content prescribed in this item, and shall remain in effect there-
after with respect to products provided for in the items specified above so long as such superseding rate is applicable to wools , not specially provided for, in the grease or washed .

Rate of Duty

1102 (b) Hair of the Angora goat : In the grease or washed Scoured
On the skin
Sorted , or matchings , if not scoured ,

22 per lb. of clean content
25 per lb. of clean content
20 per lb of clean content
23 per lb. of clean content

A1272

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.,

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA PART I (Continued)

Tariff Act of 1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

1102(b)

Heir of the Angora rabbit and other animal hair provided for in paragraph 1102 (b) , Tariff Act of 1930 ( except hair of the Angora goat, Cashmere goat , alpaca, llama, and vicuna) :

In the grease or washed .....

Scoured

On the skin

Sorted, or matchings , if not scoured ......

1105 (a) and (b)

Wool and hair wastes:
Top waste , slubbing waste , roving waste , and ring waste ...... Garnetted waste Noils, carbonized ... Noils, not carbonized Thread or yarn waste ..... Card or burr waste , carbonized ..... Card or burr waste , not carbonized ..... Wool wastes not specially provided for Shoddy, and wool extract Mungo Wool rags Flocks

Rate of duty
346 per lb. of clean content
37 per lb. of clean content
32 per lb. of clean content
35 per lb. of clean content
28 per lb. 14-1/26 per lb. 17 per lb. 12 per lb. 11-1/2 per lb. 14-1/2 per 1b. 10-1/2 per lb. 10-1/2 per 1be 14 per lb. 9 per lb. 9 per lb. 3-1/2 pes 18.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1273

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued )

Tariff Act of 1930 , paragraph
1106

Description of Products
Wool , and hair of the kinds provided for in Schedule 11 , Tariff Act of 1930 , ['] if carbonized , or advanced in any manner or by any process of manufacture beyond the washed or scoured condition , including tops , but not further advanced than roving : Carbonized only

Other

1107

Yarn , wholly or in chief value of wool , regardless of value : Wholly or in chief value of Angora rabbit hair
Other

Rate of Duty
27-3/4 per lb. and 6-1/4% ad val.
27-3/4 per lb. and 12-1/2% ad val .
40% per lb. and 15% ad val .
30% per lb. and 20% ad val .

1 [46 Stat. 646; 19 U. S. C. § 1001.]

A1274

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued )

Tariff Act of 1930 ,
paragraph

Description of Products

1108

Woven fabrics , weighing not more than four ounces per square yard , wholly or in chief value of wool , regardless of value : If the warp is wholly of cotton or other vegetable fiber

Other

NOTE : The United States reserves the right to increase the ad valorem part of the rate applicable to any of the fabrics provided for in item 1108 or 1109 ( a ) of this Fart to 45 per centum ad valorem on any of such fabrics which are entereQ
in any calendar year in excess of an aggregate quantity by weight of 5 per centum of the average annual production of similar fabrics in the United States during the 3 immediately preceding calendar years

Rate of Duty
3 per lb. and 25% ad val .
37-1/2 per lb. and 25% ad val .

1109 (a ) Woven fabrics , weighing more than four ounces per square yard , wholly or in chief value of wool , regardless of value

37-1/2 per lb, and 25% ad val.

1109 ( b ) Felts , belts , blankets , jackets , or other

articles of machine clothing , for paper-

making, printing , or other machines ,

when woven , wholly or in chief value of

wool , as units or in the piece , finished

or unfinished ....

.......

37-1/2 per lb, and 20% ad val .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1275

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued )

Tariff Aot of 1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

1110

Pile fabrics , whether or not the pile covers the entire surface , wholly or in chief value of wool , and all articles , finished or unfinished , made or cut from such pile fabrics ; all the foregoing, whether the pile is wholly out , wholly uncut, or partly out

1111

Blankets, and similar articles (including carriage and automobile robes and steamer rugs ) , made as units or in the
piece , finished or unfinished , wholly or in chief value of wool , not exceeding three yards in length; all the foregoing which are not hand-woven, regardless of value

1112

Felts, not woven, wholly or in chief value of wool :
Valued at not more than $1.50 per pound .....

Valued at more than $1.50 per pound,

1113

Fabrics , with fast edges , not exceeding twelve inches in width, and articles made therefrom; tubings , gartera, auspenders, braces , cords , and cords and tassels; all the foregoing, wholly or in chief value of wool

1114(a) Knit fabric , in the piece , wholly or in chief value of wool: Valued at not more than por pound

Valued at more than $1 per pound ....

Rate of Duty
33 per lb. and .25% ad val.
30% per lo. and 30% ad val.
22-1/2 per lb. and 20% ad val.
30 per lb. and 20% ad val.
37-1/2 per lb, and 20% ad val .
B5g per lb, and 20% ad val.
37-1/2 per lb. and 20% ad val .

A1276

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued )

Tariff Act of 1930 ,
paragraph

Description of Products

1114 (b) Hose and half-hose , finished or unfinished, wholly or in chief value of wool : Valued at not more than $1,75 per dozen pairs

Valued at more than $1.75 per dozen pairs

1114 (b) Gloves and mittens , finished or unfinished , wholly or in chief value of wool : Valued at not more than $1.75 per dozen pairs : Knit
NOTE : The value per dozen pairs and the ad valorem duty for the foregoing gloves and mittens are to be calculated on the bases specified in the proclamation published in T.D. 48183 .
Other

Valued at more than $1.75 and not more than $4 per dozen pairs .....
Valued at more than $4 per dozen pairs
1114 (c ) Knit underwear, finished or unfinished , wholly or in chief value of wool : Valued at not more than $1.75 per pound .....
Valued at more than $1.75 per pound

Rate of Duty
30% per lb. and 20% ad val .
37-1/2 per lb. and 20% ad val,
30 per lb. and 17-1/2% ad val .
30% per lb. and 17-1/2 % ad val.
37-1/2 per lb. and 50% ad val.
37-1/2 per lb, and 25% ad val .
30% per lb. and 20% ad val.
37-1/2 per lb. and 20% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -- OCT. 30, 1947

A1277

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( eontinued )

Tarifi Aot of
1938 para_graph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1114 (

Outerwear and articles of all kinds , knit or crocheted , finished or unfinished,
wholly or in chief value of wool , and
not specially provided for : Valued at not more than $2 per pound:
Hats , bonnets , caps , berets , and similar articles .....

33 per lb,
and 22-1/2% ad val.

Other ....
Valued at more than $2 per pound: Infants' outerwear , made or out from Jersey fabric knit in plain stitch on a circular machine Other infants ' outerwear ....
Hats , bonnets , caps , berets , and similar articles ( not including infants ' outerwear ) .. .....
Other outerwear and other articles : Valued at not more than $5 per pound .....
Valued at more than $5 per pound .....

33 per lb. and 45% ad val.
37-1/2 per lb. and 25% ad val,
37-1/2 per lb, and 37-1/2 ad val.
37-1/2 per lb. and 25% ad val .
37-1/26 per lb, and 30% ad val.
37-1/2 per lb. and 20% ad val.

95347 0-49- pt. 5- 81

A1278

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tarifi Aot of 1930 ,
paragraph

Description of Products

1115 (a ) Clothing and articles of wearing apparel of every description , not knit or crocheted , manufactured wholly or in part , wholly or in chief value of wool : Valued at not more than 4 per pound

Valued at more than 4 per pound ...

1115(b) Bodies , hoods , forms , and shapes , for hats , bonnets , oaps , berets , and similar articles , wholly or in chief value of wool but not knit or crocheted nor
made in chief value of knit , crocheted , or woven material ; all the foregoing, if blocked or trimmed ( including finished hats , bonnets , caps , berets , and similar articles ) :
Valued at not more than $12 per dozen ....

Valued at more than $12 per dozen ..

Rate of Duty
25 per 1b. and 25% ad val.
37-1/2 per lb, and 25% ad val,
30 per lb. and 40% ad val. , and, in addition, 8 per article
30% per lb. and 30% ad val., and, in addition , 8 per article

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A1279

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued )

Tariff Aot of 1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1116 (a)

oriental , Axminster , Savonnerie , Aubusson , and other carpets , rugs , and mats , not made on a power-driven loom, plain or figured , whether woven as separate car-
pets , rugs , or mats , or in rolls of any width ...

15 per sq. ft,, but
not less
than 221/2% ad val .

1116 (b) Carpets , rugs , and mats , of oriental weave or weaves , made on a power-driven loom; chenille Axminster carpets , rugs , and mats ; all the foregoing , plain or figured , whether woven as separate car-
pets , rugs, or mats , or in rolls of any width ...

30% ad val .

1117 (a) Axminster carpets , rugs , and mats , not specially provided for ; Brussels carpets , rugs , and mats ; velvet or tapestry carpets , rugs , and mats ; and carpets , rugs , and mats , of like character or description ; all the foregoing , regardless of value
1117 (a) Wilton carpets , rugs , and mats , and carpets , rugs , and mats of like character or description ; all the foregoing , valued at more than 40 cents per square foot

30% ad val . 30% ad val .

1117 (0) Floor covorings , including mats and druggets , wholly or in chief value of wool , not specially provided for : If wholly or in chief value of hair of the Angora goat , regardless of value ..... Other : Valued at not more than 40 cents
per square foot ..... Valued at more than 40 cents per
square foot

25% ad val. 15% ad val. 40% ad val.

A1280

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continue@)

Tariff
Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1118

Screens , has socks , and all other articles , composed wholly or in part of carpets , rugs, or mats , and not specially provided for

1119

Tapestries and upholstery goods (not including pile fabrics ) , in the piece or otherwise , wholly or in chief value of wool ....

1120

Manufactures , wholly or in chief value of wool , not specially provided for: Cloth samples measuring not more than 104 square inches in area ··
All other

Rate of Duty
15% ad val.
37-1/26 per lb. and 25% ad val .
12-1/2% ad val.
40% ad val,

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1281

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1205 Woven fabrics in the piece , the fibers of which are wholly of silk, bleached, printed, dyed , ar colored, whether or not exceeding thirty inches in width, whether woven with fast or
split edges , and whether or not Jacquardfigured; all the foregoing valued at more than $5.50 per pound .....

1205 Woven fabrics in the piece, the fibers of which are chiefly but not wholly of silk, bleached, printed, dyed, or colored, whether or not exceeding thirty inches in width, and whether woven with fast or split edges, including umbrella silk or Gloria cloth; all the fore-
going valued at more than $5 per pound: Jacquard-figured ............................................................... Other ......

1206
(1 ) , ( 2) , 2and2.3.

Pile fabrics (including pilo ribbons) , whether or not the pile covers the entire surface, wholly or in ohiof value of silk, and all artioles ,
finished or unfinished, made or cut from such pile fabrics ; all the foregoing, whether the pile is wholly out, wholly unout, or partly out .....

1207 Fabrics, with fast edges, not exceeding twelve inches in width, and articles made therefrom; tubings, cords, tassels, and cords and tassels; all the foregoing wholly or in chief value of silk or of silk and india rubber, and not specially provided for, whether or not Jacquard-figured .....
1207 Garters, suspenders, and braces, wholly or in chief value of silk or of silk and india rubber, and not specially provided for, whether or not Jacquard-figured ......
1208 Knit fabric, in the piece , wholly or in chief value of silk

Rate of Duty
25% ad val.
35% ad val. 30% ad val
25% ad val.
25% ad val. 20% ad val. 30% ad val.

A1282

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

1208 Gloves and mittens , knit or crocheted, finished
or unfinished , wholly or in chief value of silk .....

1208 Hose , half-hose , underwear , cuterwear (not including gloves or mittens ) , and articles of all kinds , kit or crocheted , finished or unfinished, wholly or in chief value of silk .......
1209 Handkerchiefs and woven mufflers , wholly or in chiof value of silk, finished or unfinished, and valued at more than $5 per dozen: Not Lemmod Hemmed or hemstitched
1210 Clothing and articles of wearing apparel of every description, manufactured wholly or in part, wholly or in chief value of silk, and not specially provided for .. ...............
1211 All manufactures , wholly or in chief value of silk, not specially provided for

Rate of Duty
$1.50 per doz. pairs, but not less than 30% nor more than 60% ad val .
30% ad val.
25% ad val. 27-1/2 ad val.
35% ad val. 35% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A1283

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1301 Yarns of rayon or other synthetic textile : Weighing one hundred and fifty deniers or more per length of four hundred and fifty meters : Singles, not specially provided for .....

22-1/2 ad val. , but not less

than 22-1/26 per lb.

Plied

25% ad val. , but not less than

27-1/26 per lb.

Weighing less than one hundred and fifty deniers per length of four hundred and

fifty meters :

Singles , not specially provided for ..... 27-1/2% ad val. , but not less

Plied

than 32-1/20 per lb.
30% ad val. , but not less than

Any of the foregoing yarns if having more than twenty turns twist per inch
NOTE : Except as indicated in this item, none of the foregoing shall be subject to any additional or oumulative rate of duty by reason of any provision of paragraph 1301 , Tariff Act of 1930.

37-1/26 per lb. The respective
rate specified above and
22-1/2 per lb. in addition, but not less than the re-
spective minimum rate

specified above

plus 22-1/26 per lb.

1302 Waste of rayon or other synthetic textile , except
waste wholly or in chief value of cellulose acetate ............. .

5% ad val.

1302 Filaments of rayon or other synthetic textile, not exceeding thirty inches in length, other than waste, whether known as cut fiber , staple fiber, or by any other name ......

20% ad val.

A1284

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of duty

1302 Noils of rayon or other synthetic textile .....
1302 Garnetted or carded rayon or other synthetic textile .....

12-1/2% ad val.
5 per lb. and 12-1/24 ad val.

1302 Sliver, tops , and roving, of rayon or other synthetio textile .....

5p per lb. and 15% ad val.

1303 Spun yarn of rayon or other synthetic textile : If singles ....
If plied

6-1/4 per lb.
and 22-1/2% ad val.
6-1/4 per lb. and 25% ad val.

1304 Yarn of rayon or other synthetic textile put up for 30% ad val., but

handwork, and sewing thread of rayon or other

not less than

synthetic textile ......

27-1/26 per lb.

1305 Rayon or other synthetic textile in bands or strips 25% ad val. , but

not exceeding one inch in width, suitable for the not less than

manufacture of textiles .....

27-1/26 per lb.

1306 Woven fabrics in the piece , wholly or in chief

value of rayon or other synthetic textile , not specially provided for , whether or not Jaoquard-

figured : Valued at not more than $4 per pound

27-1/26 per 1b. and 45% ad val.

Valued at more than $4 per pound

27-1/26 per lb.

and 22-1/2% ad val.

1307 Pile fabrics ( including pile ribbons ) , whether or

not the pile covers the entire surface , wholly or

in chief value of rayon or other synthetio tex-

tile , and all articles , finished or unfinished,

made or cut from such pile fabrios ; all the foregoing, whether the pile is wholly cut, wholly uncut , or partly out

150 per lb. and 25% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30, 1947

A1285

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1308 Fabrios , with fast edges, not exceeding twelve

inches in width, and articles made therefrom;

tubings , garters, suspenders , braces, cords , tassels , and cords and tassels ; all the forego-

ing wholly or in chief value of rayon or other

synthetic textile, or of rayon or other synthe-
tio textile and india rubber, and not specially provided for, whether or not Jacquard-figured ...

27-1/26 per 1b. and 25% ad val.

1309 Knit fabric , in the piece , wholly or in chief value 27-1/26 per lb.

of rayon or other synthetic textile ........

and 30% ad val.

1309 Gloves and mittens , knit or crocheted, finished or

unfinished, wholly or in chief value of rayon or

other synthetic textile : Valued at less than $1.50 per dozen pairs ....

27-1/26 per lb. and 65% ad val.

Valued at $1.50 or more per dozen pairs

27-1/26 per lb.

and 32-1/2% ad val.

1309 Hose , half-hose , underwear, outerwear (not including gloves or mittens ), and articles of all

kinds , knit or crocheted, finished or unfinished,

wholly or in chief value of rayon or other synthetio textile ........

27-1/26 per lb. and 35% ad val.

1310 Handkerchiefs and woven mufflers , wholly or in chief value of rayon or other synthetic textile, finished or unfinished: Not hemmed .......
Hemmed or hemstitched

27-1/26 per lb. and 60% ad val,
27-1/26 par lb. and 65% ad val.

1311 Clothing and articles of wearing apparel of every description, manufactured wholly or in part, wholly or in ohief value of rayon or other syn- 27-1/26 per lb. thetic textile, and not specially provided for ... and 35% ad val.

A1286

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1312 Manufactures of filaments , fibers, yarns , or threads , of rayon or other synthetic textile, and textile products made of bands or strips (not exceeding one inch in width) of rayon or other synthetio textile, all the foregoing, wholly or in chief value of rayon or other synthetio textile , not specially provided for .....

Rate of Duty
27-1/26 per lb. and 35% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1287

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of 1930 , pgarraap-h

Description of Products

1401 Uncoated papers commonly or commercially known as book paper, and all uncoated printing papur , not specially provided for, not including cover paper......

1402 Pulpboard, strawboard , and leather board or compress leather, not plate finished , supercalendered or friction calcndcred , laminated by means of an adhesive substance , coated, surface stained or dyed , lined or vat linud, embossed, printed, decorated or ornamented in any manner, nor cut into shapes for boxes or other articles and not specially provided fors Pulpboard in rolls for use in the manufacture of wallboard , and strawboard ..... Leather board or compress leather .....
1402 Sheathing paper, roofing paper, deadening felt, sheathing felt, roofing felt or felt roofing, whether or not saturated or coated ......

1403 Manufactures of pulp, not specially provided for..

14.04 Papers commonly or commercially known as tissue paper, stereotype paper, and copying paper (except copying paper valued at more than 15
cents per pound) , india and bible paper, condenser paper, carbon paper, coated or uncoated, bibulous paper (except bibulous paper valued at more than 15 cents per pound) , pottery paper,
tissue paper for waxing, and all paper similar to any of the foregoing, not spocially provided for, colored , or uncolored, white or printed:
Weighing not over six pounds to the ream, and whether in sheets or any other frm....
Weighing over six pounds and less than ten pounds to the ream

Rate of Duty
1/56 per lb. and 5% ad val
5% ad val. 10% ad val: 5% ad val. 15% ad val.
36 per lb, and 10% ad val, 2-1/24 per 1b. and 7-1/2% ad val.

1404 India and bible paper weighing ten pounds or more

and less than twenty and one-half pounds to the 26 per lb. and

ream..

5% ad val.

A1288

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X -UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1404 Crepe paper, commonly or commercially so known,

including paper creped or partly creped in any manner:

Valued at not more than 12-1/2 cents per

1-1/24 per lb.

pound ....

and 3-3/4% ad val.

Valued at more than 12-1/2 cents per pound... 3 per lb, and

7-1/2% ad val.

1404 Paper wadding, and pulp wadding, and manufactures 6 per lb. and

of such wadding..........

7-1/2% ad val.

1405 Papers with coated surface or surfaces, not specially provided for.....

2-1/24 per lb. and 7-1/2% ad val .

1405 Papers with coated surface or surfaces, embossed

or printed otherwise than lithographically, and papers wholly or partly covered with metal of

its solutions (however provided for in para-

graph 1405, Tariff Act of 1930) , or with

gelatin, linseed oil cement, or flock; uncoated

papers , including wrapping paper, with the sur-

face or surfaces wholly or partly decorated or covered with a design, fancy effect , pattern,

or character , except designs , fancy effects,

patterns , or characters produced on a paper machine without attachments , or produced by

lithographic process ; any of the foregoing,

whether or not embossed , whether or not printed

otherwise than lithographically, and whether or

not wholly or partly covered with metal or its solutions, or with gelatin or flook.....

4-1/2 per lb. and 10% ad val.

1405 Simplex decalcomania paper not printed.....

1-1/4 per lb. and 5% ad val.

1405 Papers with paraffin or wax-coated surface or surfaces ......
1405 Vegetable parchment paper..

1-1/2 per lb. and 10% ad val,
16 per lb, and 5% ad val,

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A1289

SCHEDULE X - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , para graph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1405 Bags, printed matter other than lithographic , and

all other articles , not specially provided for,

which are dutiable under paragraph 1405, Tariff

Act of 1930 , by reason of being composed wholly

or in chief value of any paper specified in

that paragraph:

Printed matter other than lithographic .... 4-1/24 per 1b.

Bags and other articles

and 10% ad val. 54 per lb. and

10% ad val.

1405 All boxes of paper or papier-mache or wood pro-

vided for in paragraph 1405 , Tariff Act of

1930:

Covered or lined with paper, but not cover

ed or lined with cotton or other

54 per lb. and

vegetable fiber ......

....

5% ad val.

Covered or lined with cotton or other vege 5 per lb. and

table fiber

10% ad val .

1405 Plain basic paper ordi mrily used in the manu
facture of paper commonly or commercially known either as blue print or brown print ,
and plain basic paper ordinarily used for similar pur .......

10% ad val.

1405 Sensitized paper commonly or commercially known

either as blue print or brown print , and

similar sensitized paper

12-1/2% ad val.

1405 Unsensitized basic paper , to be sensitized for use in photography

5% ad val.

1405 Sonsitized paper, to be used in photography

12% ad val.

A1290

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1406 Pictures, calendars , cards , placards, and other articles ( not including labels, flaps , and cigar bands) , composed wholly or in chief value of paper lithographically printed in whole or in
part from stone, gelatin, metal , or other material ( except boxes , views of American scenery or objects , and music , and illustrations when forming part of a periodical or newspaper, or of bound or unbound books , accompanying the same) , not specially provided for:
Transparencies , printed lithographically or otherwise:
In not more than five printings (bronze printing to be counted as two printings).
In more than five printings (bronze printing to be counted as two printings)..
Decalcomanias ( except toy decalcomanias and decalcomanias in ceramic colors) : If not backed with metal leaf...... If backed with metal leaf......

1406 All articles provided for in the provisions of paragraph 1406 , Tariff Act of 1930 , for "all
articles other than those hereinbefore specifically
provided for in this paragraph" : Not exceeding twelve one-thousandths of one inch in thickness .................................... Exceeding twenty one-thousandths of one inch in thickness...

1407(a )

Correspondence cards , writing , letter, and note paper; all the foregoing weighing eight pounds or over per ream :
Not ruled , bordered, embossed , printed , lined , or decorated in any manner: In rolls, or in sheets one hundred and
ten square inches or more in area........

In sheets less than one hundred and ten square inches in area......

Rate of Duty
15% ad val. 20% ad val. 20% per lb. 32-1/26 per 1b.
156 per lb. 56 per lb.
1-1/26 per 1b. and 7-1/2 ad val, 1-1/26 per lb. and 10% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1291

SCHEDULE - UNITED STAT OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of 1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1407(a ) oon.

Correspondence cards , etc.: ( continued ) Ruled , bordered, embossed, printed , lined , ar deoorated in any manner, whether in the pulp or otherwise, other than by lithographic process : In rolls, or in sheets one hundred and ten square inches or more in area ..
In sheets less than one hundred and ten square inches in area

1-1/26 per lb. and 12-1/2% ad val.
1-1/26 per 1b.
and 15% ad val.

1407(a )

Drawing paper , weighing eight pounds or over per ream and valued at 40 oents or more per pound: Not ruled, bordered , embossed, printed, lined, or decorated in any manner ....... Ruled, bordered , embossed , printed, lined, or decorated in any manner, whether in the pulp or otherwise , other than by lithographic process ......

1 per lb. and 5% ad val.
16 per lb. and 10% ad val.

1407(a )

Handmade paper, and paper commonly or commerclully known as handmade or machine handmade
paper; all the foregoing weighing eight pounds or over per ream:
Not ruled, bordered, embossed , printed, lined, or decorated in any manner ......................

Ruled, bordered, embossed, printed, lined , or decorated in any manner, whether in the

pulp or otherwise, other than by litho-

graphio process ........

.....

1-1/26 per lb. and 7-1/2% ad val.
1-1/2 per lb. and 12-1/2% ad val.

1407(a )

Bristol board of the kinds made on a Fourdrinier

or a multioylinder machine , weighing eight

pounds or over per ream:

Not ruled, bordered , embossed, printed,

lined, or decorated in any manner : Valued at not more than 15 cents per

pound

.......

Valued at more than 15 cents per pound

1-1/26 per 1b. and 5% ad val.
1-1/2 per lb. and 7-1/2% ad val.

A 1292

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tarift Act a
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1407(a) con .

Bristol board of the kinds made on a Fourdrinier or a multicylinder machine , etc.: (continued) Ruled, bordered, embossed , printed, lined, or decorated in any manner, whether in the pulp or otherwise , other than by lithographic process : Valued at not more than 15 cents per pound

Valued at more than 15 cents per pound

1407(a) Japan paper and imitation japan paper by whatever name known, ledger, bond, record, tablet, typewriter, manifold, onionskin, and imitation onionskin paper, and paper similar to any of the papers specified in paragraph 1407(a) , Tariff Act of 1930 (except paper valued at less than 40 cents per pound and similar to drawing paper) ; all the foregoing weighing cight pounds or over per ream : Not ruled, bordered, embossed, printed, lined, or decorated in any manner .....
Ruled, bordered, embossed, printed , linod , or decorated in any manner, whether in the pulp or otherwise , other than by lithographic process ....
1407(b) Papeteries
1408 Paper envelopes , filled or unfilled , whether the contents are dutiable or free , not specially provided for

If plain If bordered, embossed , printed, tinted,
decorated, or lined .... If lithographod

Rate of Duty
1-1/26 per lb. and 10% ad val .
1-1/2 per lb. and 12-1/2 ad val.
1-1/2 per lb. and 7-1/2 ad val.
1-1/24 per lb. and 12-1/2% ad val.
15% ad val. The same rate
of duty as the paper from which made and in addition theroto : 2-1/2 ad val. 5% ad val. 15% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30 , 1947

A1293

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1409 Hanging paper : Not printed , lithographed , dyed, or colorod.... Printed , lithographed , dyed , or colored

1409 Strawboard and straw paper , including suck as is known as wrapping paper ; any of the foregoing loss than 0.012 but not less than 0.008 inch in thickness , not spooially provided for ........
1409 Blotting paper ..
1409 Filtoring paper: Valued at less than 75 cents por pound ......
Valued at 75 cents or more por pound .......

Rate of Duty
7-1/2 %ad val. le por lb. and
10% ad val.
7-1/2% ad val. 7-1/2%ad val.
5 per lb. and 15% ad val .
2-1/2 por 1b. and 7-1/2% ad val .

1409 Paper commonly or commercially known as gover paper , plain, uncoated , and undooorated .....
1409 Stencil paper , unmounted , not specially provided for .......
1410 Unbound books of all kinds , bound books of all kinds oxcopt thoso bound wholly or in part in leather , sheets or printed pages of books bound wholly or in part in loathor , pamphlets, music in books or sheets , and printed matter , all the foregoing not specially provided for: If of bona fide foreign cuthorship : Prayer books , and sheets or printed pagos of prayor books bound wholly or in part in loather ..... Tourist literature containing historical, geographic , time- table , travel , hotel , or similar information, chiefly with respect to places or travel facilities outside the continental United Statos ........ Othor (except diaries )

15% ad val. 15% ad vel .
4% ad val. 3-3/4 %ad val. 5% ad val.

95347 0-49- pt. 5- -82

A1294

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, pararanh

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1410 Unbound books of all kinds , etc.: (continued)

con.

If of other than bona fide foreign author-

ship :

Prayer books , and sheets or printed

pages of prayer books bound wholly or

in part in leather

7-1/2% ad val.

Tourist litorature containing historical

geographic, time-table , travel , hotel,

or similar information , chiefly with

respect to places or travel facilities outside the continental United States 6-1/4 ad val.

Other books (except diaries) , sheets or

printed pages of books bound wholly

or in part in leather, pamphlets , and music in books or shoots
Printed matter not specially provided for .....

10% ad val. 15% ad val.

14.10 Blank books and slate books (oxcept diarios , notebooks, and address books ) , not specially provided for .......

12-1/2% ad val.

1410 Drawings, engravings, photographs, etchings, maps , and charts :

Containing additional text conveying

historical, geographic, time-table, travel, hotel , or similar information, chiefly

with respect to places or travel facilities outside the continental United States Other ......

6-1/4 ad val. 12-1/2% ad val,

14.10 Book bindings (not including covers) wholly or in part of leather, not specially provided for ..... 7-1/2% ad val.

1410 Books of paper or other material for children's

use, printed lithographically or otherwise , not

exoveding in weight twenty-four ounoos each,

with roading matter other than letters,

numerals, or descriptive words .......

7-1/2% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1295

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF Part I (continued)

Tarift Act of
1930,
paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1410 Greeting cards , valentines , tally cards , place

cards, and all other social and gift cards,

including folders , booklets and cutouts , or in

any other form, wholly or partly manufactured:

With greeting , title or other wording

22-1/2% ad val.

Without greeting, title or other warding .... 15% ad val.

1411 Photograph, autograph , scrap, post-card and postage-stamp albums , and albums for phono-
graph records, wholly or partly manufactured ... 20% ad val.

1412 Playing cards

56 per pack and 5% ad val.

1413 Papers and paper board and pulpboard, including

cardboard and leatherboard or compress leather,

embossed , cut , die-cut , or stamped into designs

or shapes , such as initials , monograms , lace,

borders , bands , strips , or other forms , or out

or shaped for boxes or other articles , plain

or printed , but not lithographed, and not specially provided for

15% ad val.

1413 Paper board and pulpboard , including cardboard and leatherboard or compress leather, plate finished, supercalendered ar friction

calendered, laminated by means of an adhesive substance , coated , surface stained or dyed, lined or vat-lined, embossed , printed, or decorated or ornamented in any mamer :
Pulpboard in rolls for use in the manu-facture of wallboard , surface stained ar

dyed, lined or vat-lined, embossed, or printed ......................... Other ......................

10% ad val.
$7.25 per ton of 2000 lb. ,

but not less

than 7-1/2% nor more than

15% ad val.

1413 Press boards and press paper

15% ad val.

A1296

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE IX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tarift
Act
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1413 Test or container boards of a bursting strength
above sixty pounds per square inch by the Mullen or the Webb test ....

10% ad val.

1413 Wall pockets , composed wholly or in chief value of

paper, papier-mache or paper board, whether or

not die-cut , embossed, or printed lithographio-

ally or otherwise

17-1/2% ad val

1413 Boxes, composed wholly or in chief value of paper,

papier-mache or paper board, and not specially

provided for ......

17-1/2% ad val

1423 Manufactures of paper, or of which paper is the

component material of chief value, not specially

provided for: Ribbon fly catchers or fly ribbons ...........

27-1/2% ad val,

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1297

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1501 (a )

Yarn , slivers , rovings , wick , rope , cord , cloth , tape , and tubing , of asbestos , or of asbestos and any other spinnable fiber , with or without wire , and all manufactures of any of the foregoing

1501 (b) Molded , pressed , or formed articles , in part of asbestos , containing any binding agent , coating, or filler , other than hydraulic cement or synthetic resin

1501 (c)

Asbestos shingles and articles in part of asbes-
tos, if containing hydraulic cement or hydraulio cement and other material :
Not coated , impregnated , decorated, or colored , in any manner ...................
If coated , impregnated , decorated, or colored, in any manner

1501 (a ) All other manufactures of which asbestos is the component material of chief value

1502 Boxing gloves , footballs , tennis balls , golf balls, and all other balls ( not including baseballs ) , of whatever material composed, finished or unfinished , primarily designed for use in physical exercise (whether or not such exercise involves the element of sport ) , and all clubs , rackets , bats , golf tees , and other equipment , such as is ordinarily used in conjunction with any glovcs or balls provided for in paragraph 1502 , Tariff Act of 1930 , all the foregoing, not specially provided for: Table-tennis balls Footballs and other balls (not including tennis and golf balls) not wholly or in chief value of rubber, field hockey sticks and guards , lacrosse sticks , polo mallets , table-tennis bats , croquet mallets , soccer guards, and tennis nots Tennis rackets
Boxing gloves, lawn-tennis balls , golf balls, and all clubs , rackets , bats , golf tees, and other equipment not otherwise provided for in this item

Rate of Duty
10% ad val. 10% ad val. 3/10 per lb. 3/8 per lb. 12-1/2% ad val.
20% ad val. 10% ad val. 17-1/2% ad val. 15% ad val.

A1298

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1502 Ice and roller skates, and parts thereof ......

1503 Spangles , not specially provided for

1503 Beads, including bugles , not specially provided for ....

1503 Fabrics and articles not ornamented with beads , spangles , or bugles , nor embroidered , tamboured, appliqued , or scalloped , composed wholly or in chief value of beads or spangles (other than imitation pearl beads , beads in imitation of precious or semiprecious stones, and beads in chief value of synthetic resin)

Provided, That for the purpose only of applying the second proviso to paragraph 1503 , Tariff Act of 1930 , to articles provided for in this item, each rate of duty applicable on January 1, 1945, shall be reduced by 50 per centum of such rate .

1503 Beads composed in chief value of synthetic resin
1503 Beads in imitation of precious or semiprecious stones , of all kinds and shapes , of whatever material composed , not otherwise provided for in paragraph 1503 , Tariff Act of 1930 ........

1504( a)

Braids , plaits , and laces , composed wholly or in chief value of straw, chip, paper, grass , palm leaf , willow, osier , rattan, real horsehair , cuba bark, or manila hemp , and braids and plaits , wholly or in chief value of ramic , all the foregoing suitable for making or ornamenting hats, bonnets , or hoods , and not containing a substantial part of rayon or other synthetic textile : Not bleached , dyed , colored, or stained ..... Bleached, dyed , colored , or stained .......

Rate of Duty 15% ad val. 27-1/2 ad val, 17-1/2% ad val.
30% ad val.
37-1/2% ad val, 22-1/2% ad val.
7-1/2% ad val, 20% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE OCT. 30, 1947

A1299

SCHEDULE XX -UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1504(b)
(1),(2) , ,and

Hats , bonnets , and hoods , composed wholly or in chief value of straw, chip, paper , gui, palm leaf, willow, osier , rattan, real horse-
hair, ouba bark, ramie , or manila hemp, whether wholly or partly manufactured:
Not blocked or trimmed :
Not bleached, dyed, colored, or stained (except hats and hooda, composed wholly or in chief value of the fiber of the Carludovice palmata, commercially known as toquilla fiber or straw)
If bleached, dyed , colored, or stained

Blocked or trimmed , whether or not bleached, dyed, colored, or stained (except men' 8 Yeddo hats composed wholly or in chief value of unsplit straw, blooked but not trimmed)

If sewed, whether or not bloaked , trimmed, bleached, dyed , colored ,or stained : If wholly or in chief value of straw, and blocked or trimmed, and valued at $15 or more per dozen
Other

15% ad val. 25 per doz. and
15% ad val.
$2.40 per dos. and 15% ad val,
$2 per doz. and 15% ad val.
$3 per doz. and 25% ad val.

(b) Hats provided for in paragraph 1504 , Tariff Act of 2504(b) 1930 , if known as harvest hats and valued at
less than $3 per dozen and not blocked or trimmed or sewed

6-1/4% ad val.

1505(1) and
(2)

Hats, bonnets , and hoods , wholly or in chief value of any braid not provided for in paragraph 1504,
Tariff Act of 1930 , if such braid is composed of a substantial part of rayon or other synthetic textile, but not wholly or in chief value thereof; all the foregoing ,blocked, trimmed, or sewed, whether or not bleached, dyed , colored, or stained

1506 Brooms, made of broom corn, straw, wooden fiber, or twigs

45% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val.

A1300

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph 1506
1506
2506
1506
1507 1510
1520
1510

Description of Products
Tooth brushes , whether or not the handles or backs thereof are composed wholly or in chief value of any product provided for in paragraph 31 , Tariff Act of 1930 .
Toilet brushes , ornamented , mounted, or fitted with gold , silver , or platinum, or wholly or partly plated with gold, silver , or platinum, whether or not enameled....
Toilet brushes (except tooth brushes) , the handles or backs of which are composed wholly ar in chief value of any product other than one provided for in paragraph 31, Tariff Act of 1930, valued at more than 40 cents cach .......
Hair pencils in quills or otherwise.
Bristles, sorted , bunched, or prepared..
Buttons made in imitation of or similar to pearl or shell buttons (except buttons commonly known as Roman pearl and fancy buttons with a fish-scale or similar to fish-scale finish) ...
All collar and cuff buttons and studs composed wholly of bone , mother-of-pearl, ivory, vegetable ivory, or agate......
Buttons not specially provided for : Horn and composition hern..... Wholly or in chief value of any compound of casein and valued at more than 60 cents per gross; wholly or in chief value of glass; commonly known as Roman pearl ; fancy, with a fish- scale or similar to fish-scale finish ; wholly or in chief value of wood ; ar wholly or in part f textile material..

Rate of Duty
1 each and 25% ad val .
15% ad val.
1 each and 15% ad val.
26 each, but not less than 10% not more than 40%.ad val.
36 per lb. 3/46 per line
perrous and 12-1/2 fad val.
22-1/2 ad val. 20% ad val.
22-1/2 ad val.

¹ [46 Stat. 595; 19 U. S. C. § 1001.]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1301

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1512 Dice, dominoes, droughts , chessmen, and billiard, pool, and bagatelle balls, and poker chips , of ivory, bone, or other material......
1513 Dolls and doll clothing , composed in any part , however small , of any of the laces , fabrics , embroideries , or other materials or articles provided for in paragraph 1529 ( a) , Tariff Act of 1930 ...

25% ad val. 45% ad val.

1513 Toys, not specially provided for : Wholly or in chief value of rubber.... In the forms of musical instruments and

50% ad val.

capable of omitting sound :
In the forms of stringed instruments ar accordions ..........................................
Other...........................

35% ad val. 50% ad val.

Figures or images of animate objects , wholly or in chief value of metal :

Not having any movable member or part, and valued at 21 cents or more per

pound; or having any movable member

or part but not having a spring mechanism, and valued at 30 cents
or more per pound... Other...

25% ad val. 35% ad val.

Model airplane construction sets, wholly or in chief value of metal, valued at 75 cents or more each; construction sets (other

than model airplane construction sets) ,

wholly or in chief value of metal, valued

at 30 cents or more per pound ; stuffed animal figures not having a spring mechaniam, not over 6 inches in height and

valued at 35 cents or more each, or over

6 inchas but not over 11 inches in height

and valued at $1 or more each, ar over

11 inches but not over 14 inches in height

and valued at $2 a more each, ar over 14 inches in height and valued at $3.50 a

more each; and building blocks or bricks,

valued at 8 cents or more per pound..

25% ad val.

1 [46 Stat. 665; 19 U. S. C. § 1001.]

A1302

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930,
paragraph

Description of articles

1514 Emery, corundum, and garnet, in grains , or ground, pulverized, refined, or manufactured .......

Rate of Duty 1/26 per lb.

NOTE : No provision of any item 1514 of this Part shall be applicable to any article containing more
than one-tenth of 1 per centum of vanadium, or more than two-tenths of 1 per centum of tungsten, molybdenum, boron, tantalum, columbium or niobium, or uranium, or more than three-tenths of
1 per centum of chromium.

1514 Artificial abrasives, in grains , or ground, pulver

ised, refined, or manufactured .....

14 per 1b,

1514 Emery wheels, emery files , and manufactures of which emery, corundum, garnet or artificial abrasive is the component material of chief value, not specially provided for ..........
1514 All papers , aloths , and combinations of paper and cloth, wholly or partly coated with artificial or natural abrasives, or with a combination of natural and artificial abrasives

10% ad val. 10% ad val.

1515 Firecrackers: Mare than five-sixteenths of one inch outside
diameter, or more than one and three-
quarters inches in length All other ............................

12-1/26 par lb. par lb.

1518 Feathers and downs, on the skin or otherwise : Crude or not dressed , colored, or otherwise

advanced or manufactured in any manner , not specially provided for ........

10% ad val.

Dressed, colored, or otherwise advanced or

manufactured in any manner, including quilts

of down and other manufactures of down

20% ad val,

1518 Feather dusters

20% ad val,

1518 Artificial or ornamental feathers suitable for use

as millinery ornaments . .............

20% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1303

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph

Description of articles

1518 Artificial or ornamental fruits , vegetables , grasses, grains , leaves , flowers , stems , or
parts thereof ; and boas , boutonnieres , wreaths , and all articles not specially provided for, composed wholly or in chief value of any of
the foregoing: When composed wholly or in chief value of yarns, threads , filaments, tinsel wire , lame , bullions , metal threads , boads , bugles , spangles , or rayon or other synthetic textile When composed wholly or in chief value of other materials and not specially provided for :
Artificial flowers composed wholly or in chief value of feathers .......
Other .......

1518 Boas, boutonnieres , wreaths, and all articles not specially provided for, composed wholly or in chief value of any of the feathers respecting which a rate of duty is specified in paragraph 1518, Tariff Act of 1930 .......

1519(a)

Dressed furs and dressed fur skins (except silver or black fox) : Coney and rabbit: If not dyed ..... If dyed
Lamb and sheep (not including caracul and Persian lamb): If not dyed ...... If dyed
Caracul and Persian lamb , ermine , lynx, chinchilla, sable, marten, nutria, otter, leopard, kolinsky, beaver , mink, fisher, fox, pony, wolf, ocelot, fitoh, and raccoon: If not dyed ..... If dyed .......
Other : If not dyed If dyed .......

Provided, That, in the event platinum or platina fox furs are not classifiable as

Rate of Duty
60% ad val.
30% ad val. 45% ad val.
20% ad val,
17-1/2% ad val. 20% ad val. 10% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val.
7-1/2% ad val. 10% ad val. 12-1/2% ad val. 15% ad val.

A1304

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930,
paragraph

Description of articles

Rate of Duty

1519(1)Dressed furs and dressed fur skins, etc.:(continued) con. Provided, (continued)
silver or black fox furs, nevertheless the former and products thereof shall not be
entitled to any reduction in duty by virtue of this item or item 1519(b) of this Part, and articles wholly or in chief value of
platinum or platina fox furs , if provided for in item 1519(e) of this Part, shall be subject to duty at the rate prescribed in such item 1519(e) for articles wholly or in chief value or silver or black fox furs.

1519(a)Plates, mats, linings , strips, and crosses of dressed dog, goat, or kid skins :
If not dyed If dyed ..............................

12-1/2% ad val. 15% ad val.

1519(b)Manufactures of fur (except silver or black fox), further advanced than dressing, prepared for use as material (whether or not joined or sewed together), not including plates, mats, linings, strips, and crosses of dog, goat, and kid skins : Plates, mats , linings, strips, and crosses: If not dyed
If dyed Other:
If not dyed If dyed .. ............

17-1/2% ad val. 22-1/2% ad val.
20% ad val. 25% ad val.

1519(o) Silver or black fox furs or skins , dressed or undressed, not specially provided for ......

37-1/2% ad val.

1519(a) Articles of wearing apparel of every description, wholly or partly manufactured: Composed wholly or in chief value of hides or
skins of cattle of the bovine species , and
not specially provided for ...... Composed wholly or in chief value of dog, goat
or kid skins , and not specially provided for ...

15% ad val. 17-1/2% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1305

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tarift Act of 1930,
paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1519(0)

Articles , wholly or partly manufactured (including fur collars , fur cuffs, and fur trimmings) , wholly or in chief value of fur,
not specially provided for: Of silver or black fox fur Other ................

37-1/2% ad val. 25, ad val

1520 Hatters' furs, or furs not on the skin , prepared for hatters' use, including fur skins carroted 15% ad val.

1521 Fans of all kinds, except common palm-leaf fans .. 25% ad val.

1523 Human hair, raw ......

5% ad val

1523 Human hair tops, roving, and yarns , of which

34 per lb. and

human hair is the component material of chief value ........

12-1/2% ad val.

1523 Press cloth, of which human hair is the component material of chief value .....
1523 Press cloth, of which camel's hair is the component material of chief value .......

4 per lb. and 30% ad val.
20% ad val., but not less than 156 per lb.

2523 Hair press cloth, not specially provided for ..... 30% ad val.

1523 Manufactures of human hair, or of which human

hair is the component material of chief value,

not specially provided for:

Nets and nettings .... Other .....

17-1/2% ad val. 20% ad val.

1524 Hair, curled, suitable for beds or mattresses .... 5% ad val.
1525 Hair felt, made wholly or in chief value of animal hair , not specially provided for ....... 10% ad val.

1525 Manufactures of hair felt , not specially provided

for .....

10% ad val.

A1306

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF MERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, pararaph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1526(a)

Hats, caps, bonnets, and hoods , for men's, women's, boys ' , or children's wear, trimsed or untrimmed , including bodies , hoods , plateaux, forms, or shapes, for hats or bonnets , composed wholly or in chief value of fur of the rabbit, beaver, or other animals :
Valued at not more than $12 per dozen

Valued at more than $12 and not more than $18 per dozen ....
Valued at more than $18 and not more than $30 per dozen ........................................................... .
Valued at more than $30 per dozen

Provided, That none of the foregoing shall be subject to any additional duty under the last clause in paragraph 1526(a) , Tariff Act of 1930.
1526(b) Men's silk or opera hats , in chief value of silk

1527(a) and

Jewelry, commonly or commercially so known, finished or unfinished ( including parts thereof):
Camposod Tholly or in chief value of gæld or platinum, or of which the metal part is wholly or in chief value of gold cor platinum

55, så val. , but not less than $1.25 per daz.
47-1/2% ad val. 40% a val. $8 per dos. and
12-1/2% ad val.
$1 each and 20% ad val,
40% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1307

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (Continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1527(a) Jewelry, commonly or commercially so known, etc.: (continued ) All other , of whatever material composed, valued above 20 cents per dozen pieces ...
NOTE : The United States reserves the right to modify the last stated rate of duty, insofar as it applies to Jewely valued at not above $5 per dozen pieces , at any time after the termination of the
unlimited national emergency proclaimed on May 27 , 1941 , upon giving months'
notice in writing to the contracting parties ; but in no case shall the rate for such jewelry exoced 85 per centum ad valorem, subject to the minimum-duty provision stated in the rate column.

55% ad val., but not leas than 50% of the amount of duty that would have been payable on January 1, 1945 , if the article were not dutiable under para-
graph 1527, Tariff Act of
1930 ('1

1527(b)

Rope, curb, cable , and fancy patterns of chain not exceeding one-half inch in diameter , width , or thickness , valued above 30 cents per yard: Of gold or platinum Of any other metal, whether or not plated with gold or platinum

40% ad val. 55% ad val.

1527(0) and

Articles valued above 20 cents per dozen pieces , designed to be worn on apparel or carried on or about or attached to the person , such as and including buckles , cardcases , chains , cigar casos, cigar cutters , cigar holders , cigar lighters , cigarette cases , cigarette holders , coin holders , collar , cuff , and dress buttons , cambs, match boxes , mesh bags and purses , millinery , military and hair ornaments , pins , powder cases , stamp cases, vanity cases , watch bracelets , and like articles ; all the foregoing and parts thereof (except parts valued. at
less than 20 cents per uzen pieces) , finished or unfinished :
Composed wholly or in chief value of gold ar platinum, or of which the metal part is wholly or in chief value of gold or platinum

40% ad val.

[46 Stat. 664; 19 U. S. C. § 1001. ]

A13C8

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHSTUDE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tarift Aot of
1930 ,
paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1527(0) Articles valued above 20 cents per dosen pieces ,

(1) and etc.: (continued)

38233

Composed wholly or in chief value of metal

con .

other than gold or platinum (whether or not

enameled, washed , covered , or plated,

including rolled gold plate) , or (if not composed in chief value of metal and if not

dutiable under clause ( 1) of subparagraph

(c) of paragraph 1527, Tariff Act of 1930) set with and in chief value of precious or

semiprecious stones, pearls , cameos , coral , amber, indtation precious or semiprecious stones, or imitation pearls:
Valued at not above $5 per dozen pieces or parts :

Ladies' handbags set with and in chief value of rhinestones ;

buckles ; and collar , cuff, and dress buttons ......

Other articles and parts (except cigar and cigarette lighters and parts thereof and mesh bags and parts thereof .......
Valued above $5 per dozen pieces or parts : Cigar and cigarette lighters and parts thereof .....

Other articles and parts (except mesh bags and parts thereof) ....

1528 Pearls (other than cultured or cultivated) and parts thereof , drilled or undrilled, but not set ar atrung (except temporarily)

55% ad val. 65% ad val. 55% ad val. 45% ad val. 5% ad val

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1309

SCHEDULE - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , para graph

Description of Products

1528 Diamonds , coral , cameos , and other precious stonos (except sapphires and not includ ing rubies) and semiprecious stones , cut
but not set , and suitable for use in the manufacture of jewelry:
Diamonds Other .....

1528 Initation precious stones , cut or faceted, imitation semiprecious stones, faceted, marcasites and imitation narcasites ......
NOTE: Synthetic precious or semiprecious stones shall not be entitled to any reduction in duty by virtue of any provision of this Agreement.
1528 Initation precious stones , not cut or faceted, initation seniprecious stones , not faceted, imitation jet buttons , cut , polished or faceted , initations of opaque precious or semiprecious stones , with flat backs and tops, out and polished, but not faceted

Rate of Duty
10% ad val, 5% ad val . 10% ad val.
30% ad val..

95347 0-49- pt. 5- -83

A1310

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Lot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1529(a)

Lace (except veils and veilings) made on a Levers
(including go-through) lace machine , whether or not embroidered , and however provided for in paragraph 1529(a) , Tariff Act of 1930:
Made full gauge on a machine of 12 point or finer :
Wholly or in chief value of cotton or silk ...................
Other .....
Not made full gauge on a machine of 12 point or finer:
Wholly or in chief value of cotton or rayon or other synthetic textile ....
Wholly or in chief value of silk ...... Other ...................

NOTE : The word " lac , " wherever used in any item 1529(a ) of this Part , means " lacus, lace fabrics , or lace articles . "
The word " ornamented, " wherever used 1i1 n any item 1529(a) of this Part , means ' embroidered (whether or not the embroidery is on a scalloped edge) , tamboured , appliqued , ornamented with beads , bugles , or spangles, or from which threads have been
omitted , drawn , punched , or cut, and with threads introduced after weaving to finish or ornament the openwork , not including one row of straight hemstitching adjoining the hem. "
No provision of any item 1529 ( a ) of this Part shall apply to any fabric or article of a class or kind provided for in any item 1529 ( a ) of Schedule II of the trade agreement between the United States and Switzerland , signed January 9 , 1936,1'] whether or not such agreement shall be in force; nor shall any provision of any item 1529 ( a ) of this Part apply to lace window curtains .

Rate of Duty
40% ad val. 45% ad val. 75% ad val. 65% ad val. 45% ad val.

1 [49 Stat. 3950.]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1311

SCHEDULE X - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, para graph

Description of Products

1529( a) Lace (except veils and veilings ) made on a bobbinet -Jacquard machine , whether or not enbroidered and however provided for in para graph 1529(a) , Tariff Act of 1930 ......

1529 (a)

Lace made on a machine other than a Levers (including go- through) or bobbinet-Jacquard nachine, however provided for in paragraph 1529(a) , Tariff Act of 1930 , but not provided for in any other item 1529 ( a) of this Part ........

1529(a)

Lace made wholly by hand without the use of any

nachine-made material or article provided for

in paragraph 1529 (a) , Tariff Act of 1930 , how

ever provided for in said paragraph 1529(a) :

Exceeding 2 inches in width:

Valued at not more than $50 per pound

Valued at nore than $50 and less than

$150 per pound

..........

Valued at $150 or more per pound ..... Other ......

1529(a)

Articles wholly of any lace provided for in the preceding item, and articles (except wearing apparel) in part of handmade lace and contain ing no nashine-nade naterial or article provided for in paragraph k529 (a) , Tariff Act of
1930, however provided for in said paragraph 1529(a):
If all the lace is over 2 inches wide and the articles are
Valued at not more than $ 50 per pound Valued at more than $50 and less than
$150 per pound ...... Valued at $150 or more per pound ... Other .....

1529(a)

Anticles of wearing apparel , wholly or in part of lace, er ornamented, however provided for in paragraph 1529(a) , Tariff Act of 1930, but not provided for in any other iten 1529(a) of this Part

Rate of Duty
35% ad val.
60% ad val.
60% ad val. 30% ad val. 25% ad val, 60% ad val.
60% ad val. 0% ad val. 25% ad val. 60% ad val,
50% ad val.

A1312

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1529(a)

Flouncings , all-overs , neck rufflings , flutings, quillings , ruchings , tuckings , insertings, galloons , edgings, trimmings , fringes, gimps, and ornaments; all the foregoing and articles
wholly or in part thereof but not in part of lace and not ornamented :
Finges and articles wholly or in part of fringes (except wearing apparel)
Other

1529( a)

Braids provided for in paragraph 1529 (a) , Tariff Act of 1930 (except braids suitable for making or ornamenting hats , bonnets, or hoods) , and articles of wearing apparel in part of such braids but not in part of lace and not ornamentod ......

1529(a)

Nets and nettings , not embroidered: Made on a bobbinet machine and wholly or in chief value of cotton :
Having 225 or more holes por square inoh .....
Having less than 225 holes per square inch
Other .......

1529(a) Veils and veilings made on any lace or net machine, whether or not embroidered ...

1529(a)

Corsets , girdle- corsets , step-in-corsets, brassieros, bandeaux-brassiers; corsets, girdleaarsets, or step-in-corsets, attached to brassieres or bandeaux-brassieres; all similar body-supporting garments; all wearing apparel or articles to which any of the foregoing is attached; all the foregoing however provided for in paragraph 1529(2), Tariff Act of 1930,
and whether or not provided for in any other item 1529(a) of this Part .......

Rate of Duty
45% ad val. 50% ad val.
50% ad val.
30% ad val. 70% ad val. 45% ad val. 45% ad val.
37-1/2% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1313

SCHEDULE - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , para graph

Description of Products

1529(a) Fabrics and articles ( except wearing apparel) , ornamented, but not in part of lace , however provided for in paragraph 1529 ( a) , Tariff Act of
1930 , but not provided for in any other item 1529(a ) of this Part
Wholly or in chief value of cotton
Wholly or in chief value of vegetable fiber other than cotton: Sheets, pillowcases , and damask tablecloths and napkins .... Other .......
Other

1529( a) Hose and half-hose , embroidered in any manner: Wholly or in chief value of wool: Valued at not more than $3.50 per dosen pairs Valued at more than $3.50 per dozen pairs Wholly or in chief value of cotton: Valued at not more than $5 per dozen pairs ..... Valued at more than $5 per dozen pairs
1529 (a) Gloves and mittens , embroidered in any manner, wholly or in chief value of wool ......

1529(b) Handkerchiefs , wholly or in part of lace, and handkerchiefs embroidered (whether with a plain
or fancy initial , monogram, or otherwise , and whether or not the embroidery is on a scalloped edge) , tamboured, appliqued , or from which threads have been omitted, drawn , punched , or cut, and with threads introduced after weaving
to finish or ornament the openwork, not including one row of straight hemstitching adjoining the hem; all the foregoing , finished or unfinished , of whatever material composed:
Valued at not more than 70 cents per dosen

Valued at more than 70 cents per dozen:
Wholly or in chief value of vegetable fiber other than cotton
Other ....

Provided, That any of the foregoing valued at not more than 70 cents per dozen, if made with hand solled or hand made hems , shall be subject to an additional duty of .....

Rate of Duty
70% ad val.
45% ad val. 70% ad val. 50% ad val.
50% ad val. 40% ad val. 60% ad val. 30% ad val. 70% ad val.
24 each and 30% ad val.
34 each and 20% ad val.
34 each and 30% ad val.
14 each

A1314

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (contimed)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1529(c)
1529 (c ) 1530(a)

Corsets, girdle-corsets , step-in-corsets, brassieres, bandeaux-brassieres; corsets, girdle-corsets , or step-in-corsets, attached to brassieres or bandeaur-brassieres; all similar body-supporting garments; all the foregoing, of whatever material composed, finished or unfinished, and all wearing apparel or articles to which any of the foregoing is attached; all the foregoing whether or not containing elastic fabric ...
Elastic fabrics of whatever material composed, knit, woven, or braided, in part of india rubber ......
Hides and skins of cattle of the bovine species (except buffalo hides and skins), raw or uncured, or dried, salted, or pickled: Calf or dip skins , dried or drysalted and weighing not more than 12 pounds each, or neither dried nor dry-salted and weighing not more than 25 pounds each ......

Rate of Duty
27-1/2$ ad val. 25% ad val. 5% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1315

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, para graph
1530(b) (1),(2), (3 ) , (4).] (5), (6) and (7)

Description of Products

Leather (except leather provided for in subparagraph (d) of paragraph 1530 , Tariff Act of 1930), nade from hides or skins of cattle of the bovine species: Sole or belting leather ( including offal) ,
rough, partly finished , finished, curried, or cut or wholly or partly nanufactured into outer or inner soles , blocks , strips ,
counters , taps , box toes , or any forms or shapes suitable for conversion into boots, shoes, footwear, or belting ............. Leather welting Leather to be used in the manufacture of harness or saddlery .......................

side upper leather (including grains and splits) , patent leather, and leather made

fron calf or kip skins , rough, partly fin ished, or finished, or cut or wholly or partly manufactured into uppers, vamps, or any forms or shapes suitable for conver sion into boots, shoes , or footwear:
side upper grains and finished splits (except wax splits ) , and upper leather made from salf or kip skins;

all the foregoing, not cut or wholly

or partly manufactured into uppers,

vamps, or any forms or shapes suit-

able for conversion into boots,

shoes, or footwear .......... Patent leather

Other ...............................

Upholstery, collar, bag , case, glove , gar

ment or strap leather, in the rough, in

the white, crust , or russet , partly finished or finished :

Upholstery, glove, and garment .......

Other ......

.......

Leather to be used in the manufacture of

footballs , basket balls , soccer balls, or medicine balls .....

All other, rough, partly finished, finished, or curried, not specially provided for ...

Rate of Duty
10% ad val. 10% ad val. 10% ad val,
12-1/2 ad val. 7-1/2% ad val, 10% ad val. 15% ad val. 10% ad val. 15% ad val. 10% ad val.

A1316

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930,
paragraph

Desctiption of Products

Rate of Duty

1530(c)

Leather (except leather provided for ir. subparagraph (a) of paragraph 1530, Tariff Act of 1930) , made from hides or skins of animals
(including fish, reptiles , and birds, but not including cattle of the bovine species) , in the rough, in the white , crust, or russet, partly finished, or finished :
Rough-tanned walrus .... Pigskin Other ....

10% ad val. 12-1/2 ad val. 15% ad val.

1530 (c) Vegetable-tanned rough leather made from goat or sheep skins (including those commercially known as India-tanned goat or sheep skins) ....

10% ad val.

1530(0)

Any of the leathers provided for in any item

1530(o) of this Part: If imported to be used in the manufacture

of boots, shoes, or footwear, but not cut or wholly or partly manufactured into

uppers, vamps, or any forms ar shapes suitable for conversion into boots, shoes, or footwear :

Made from sheep, lamb, goat , kid,

reptile, shark, or pig skins (except

patent leather) ......

......

Other (including patent leather)

If cut or wholly or partly manufactured into

uppers , vamps, or any forms or shapes

suitable for conversion into boots, shoes, or footwear ........

10% ad vale 7-1/2% ad val.
10% ad val.

1530(4)

Leather of all kinds , grained , printed, embossed, ornamented, or decorated , in any manner or to any extent (including leather finished in gold, silver, aluminum, or like effects) , or by any other process (in addition to tanning) made
into fancy leather , and any of the foregoing cut or wholly or partly manufactured into uppers, vamps , or any forms or shapes suitable for conversion into boots , shoes , or footwear, all the foregoing by whatever name known , and to whatever use applied ......

15% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A1317

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Desctiption of Products

Rate of Duty

1530(e)

Boots , shoes , or other footwear (including athletic ar sporting boots and shoes) , made wholly or in chief value of leather, not specially provided for : Sewed or stitched by the process or me thod known as McKay : Skating boots and shoes , if attached to ice skates Other .................. Made by the process ar method known as welt..

1530(e)

Having molded soles Laced to uppers ....... Slippers for.housewear ............................ Moccasins of the Indian handicraft type ,
having no line of demarcation between the soles and the uppers ................................................. Other (except huaraches, turn or turned boots and shoes, and men's , youths ' , and boys' boots , shoes , or other footwear)
Boots, shoes, or other footwear (including athletic or sporting boots and shoes), the uppers of which are composed wholly or in chief value of wool, cotton, ramie, animal hair, fiber, rayon or other synthetic textile , silk, or substitutes for any of the foregoing ; any of the foregoing with soles composed wholly or in chief value of leather ......

15% ad val. 20% ad val. 40% per pair, but not less than 5, nor more than 20% ad val, 10% ad val. 10% ad val.
10% ad val.
20% ad val.
20% ad val.

1530(f)

Harness valued at more than $70 per set, single harness valued at more than $40, saddles valued at more than $40 each, saddlery, and parts (except metal parts) for any of the foregoing

15% ad val.

1530(f) 1530(x)

Saddles made wholly or in part of pigskin or imitation pigskin ......
Saddles and harness , not specially provided for , and parts thereof, finished or unfinished, except metal parts

15% aa val. 15% ad val.

A1318

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X -UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I - (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Desctiption of Products

1530(f) Leather shoe laces , finished or unfinished ......

Rate of Duty 7-1/2% ad val.

1531 Bags , baskets , belts , satchels , cardcases , pocket books , jewel boxes , portfolios , and other boxes

and cases, not jewelry, wholly or in chief

value of leather ( except reptile leather) , or

parchment, and manufactures of leather (except

reptile leather) , rawhide , ar parchment , or of

which leather (except reptile leather), rawhide , ar parchment is the component material of chief

value, not specially provided for :
Belts designed to be worn on the person .... Coin purses , change purses , billfolds , bill

17-1/2% ad val.

cases , bill rolls, bill purses , bank-note

cases, currency cases, money cases , card-

cases , license cases , pass cases , passport

cases , letter cases, and similar flat

leather goods .....

25% ad val.

Bags , baskets , belts , satchels , pocketbooks , jewel boxes , portfolios , and boxes and cases , not jewelry; any of the

foregoing not provided for heretofore in this item ......... Other ............................

20% ad val. 17-1/2% ad val.

Any of the foregoing permanently fitted and

furnished with traveling , bottle , drink-

ing, dining or luncheon, sewing , manicure ,

or similar sets

25% ad val.

1532(a)

Gloves made wholly or in chief value of leather , whether wholly or partly manufactured : Men's gloves not over twelve inches in
length : Machine seamed , otherwise than overscamed

Other AGO .

$4.50 per doz.
pairs $4 per dos.
pairs

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1319

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1532 ( a ) con.

Gloves made wholly or in chief value of leather , eto.: (continued) Women's and children's gloves not over twelve inches in length And for each inch or fraction there of in excess of twelve inches

Provided, That , in addition thereto , on all the foregoing there shall be paid each of the following cumulative duties : When machine seamed , otherwise than Overseamed : Men's gloves
Women's and children's gloves ....
When seamed by hand

When lined with cotton, wool , silk, ar other fabrics .....
When trimmed with fur

When lined with leather or fur

Provided further, That the foregoing shall be dutiable at not less than the following rates :
If men's gloves ..... If women's or children's gloves:
Machined seamed, not lined , and not trimmed with fur: Not over twelve inches in
length ..... Over twelve inches in
length Hand seamed , not lined , and not
trimmed with fur: Not over twelve inches in
length . Over twelve inches in
length .... Other

Rate of Duty
$5 per doz. pairs
25% per doz. pairs
50% per doz. pairs
$1 per doz. pairs
$2 per doz. pairs
$1.50 per doz. pairs
$1.50 per doz. pair s
$2 per doz. pairs
25% ad val.
40% ad val. 35% ad val.
35% ad val. 30% ad val. 25% ad val.

A1320

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1532(b) Gloves wholly or in chief value of leather made from horsehides or cowhides (except calfskins), whether wholly or partly manufactured ......
1533 Catgut, whip gut, oriental gut , and manufactures thereof, and manufactures of worm gut , not specially provided for ...
1535 Artificial flies and snelled hooks , finished or unfinished

1535 Leaders or casts , finished or unfinished

1535 Fishing rods , finished or unfinished, not specially provided for ..
1535 Fishing reels , finished or unfinished, not specially provided for .................
1535 Parts of fishing rods and reels , finished or unfinished, not specially provided for ........
1535 Fish hooks, finished or unfinished, not specially provided for
1535 Artificial baits , and all other fishing tackle and parts thereof, fly books , fly boxes, finished or unfinished, not specially provided for (except fishing baskets ar creels , fishing lines, fishing nets, and seines) .....
1536 Candles of wax ...

Rate of Duty
15% ad val.
20% ad val.
45% ad val. $1 per doz.,
but not loss than 17-1/2% nor more than 55% ad val. $4.50 each, but not loss than 15% nor more than 55% ad val. $1.50-oach, but not less than 15% nor more than 55% ad val.
40% ad val.
35% ad val.
45% ad val. 14% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1321

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of 1930,
paragraph

Description of Products

1537(a ) Manufactures of bone , grass , sea grass, horn, palm leaf (except raffia) , straw, or whalebone , or of which these substances or any of them is the component material of chief value , not specially provided for ...

1537(b)

Manufactures of india rubber or gutta-percha, or of which these substances or either of them is
component material of chief value , not speoially provided for :
Packing, gaskets, and valves; hose and tubing, having at any point an inside diameter of less than 3/8 inch , suitable for conducting liquids or gases ; gloves; nursing nipples and pacifiers ; catheters, drains, bougies , sondes , and other urological instruments; golf-ball centers or cores, wound or unwound; and tires
(except automobile , motor cycle , and bicycle tires) Hose and tubing, having at no point an inside diameter of less than 3/8 inch, suitable for conducting liquids or gases . Boots, shoes , or other footwear, wholly or in chief value of india rubber ...

NOTE : Ad valorem duties for the fore-
going boots , shoes, and other footwear are to be calculated on the basis specified in the proclamation published in T.D. 46158.

1537(b) Automobile , motor cycle , and bicycle tires composed wholly or in chief value of rubber ......

1537(b) Molded insulators and insulating materials,
wholly or partly manufactured, composed wholly or in chief value of rubber or gutta-percha ..

Rate of Duty
12-1/2% ad val.
12-1/2% ad val.
10% ad val. $1.50 per
dozen pairs, but not less than 12-1/2% nor more than 25% ad val, 10% ad val.
1%9 ad val.

A1322

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF ERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1537(b) Manufactures composed wholly or in chief value of india rubber known as "hard rubber" , not specially provided for, finished or unfinished: Syringes .....

Other ......

1537(c) Cambs of whatever material composed, except combs wholly of rubber or metal , not specially provided for, valued at more than $4.50 per gross
1538 Manufactures of ivory, or of which ivory is the component material of chief value , not specially provided for
1538 Manufactures of mother-of-pearl or shell, or of which these substances or either of them is the component material of chief value , not specially provided for ; and shells and pieces of shells engraved, cut , ornamented, or otherwise manufactured .....

1539(6)

Laminated products (whether or not provided for elsewhere in the Tariff Act of 1930 than in
paragraph 1539(b) thereof ) of which any synthetic resin or resin-like substance is the
chief binding agent, in rods, tubes, blocks, strips, blanks, or other forms...

1539(b)

Manufactures wholly or in chief value of any product of which any synthetic resin or resinlike substance is the chief binding agent, not including manufactures wholly or in chief value of any laminated product provided for in paragraph 1539(b), Tariff Act of 1930 .................?

1540 Moss and sea grass, eelgrass , and seaweeds , if manufactured or dyed .......................

Rate of Duty
17-1/2% ad val .
12-1/2% ad val.
36 each and 20% ad val.
17-1/2% ad val.
25% ad val.
256 par lb. and 20% ad val .
356 per lb. and 30% ad val.
5 % ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1323

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph
1541(a)

Description of Products
Musical instruments and parts thereof, not specially provided for (except cymbals , organs, pianos , piano-accordion , stringed instruments, harmonicas, and music boxes, and parts of any such instruments) : Wood-winds, and parts thereof ....... Brass-winds with cup mouthpieces , not including parts ......

Concertinas and other accordions , having not more than 32 treble buttons and not
more than 25 bass buttons , and parts (except reeds) specially designed therefor Percussion instruments:
Sets of tuned bells of the types known
as chimes or peals, and parts thereof Other, and parts thereof Other (except concertinas and other accordions) , and parts thereof , not specially
provided for ....

1541(a)

Pipe organs or pipe-organ player actions and parts thereof, including pipe organs or pipeorgan player actions and parts thereof especially designed and constructed for installa-
tion and use in a particular church , or in a particular public auditorium at which it is not customary to charge an admission fee , which are imported for that specific use, and which are so installed and used within one
year from the date of importation ....

1541(a) Cases for musical instruments

Rate of Duty
20% ad val. $2 each, but
not less than 20% nor more than 30% ad val.
ad val.
15% ad val. 20% ad val. 28% ad val.
15% ad val. 25% ad val.

A1324

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Aot of 1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

1541(b) Violins , violas , violoncellos , and double basses , of all sizes , wholly or partly manufactured or assembled , made after the year 1800: Valued at less than $50 each
Valued at $50 or more and loss than $100 each
Valued at $100 or more each

1541(b) Unassembled parts of any instrument provided for in the preceding item ........................

1541(c) Carillons containing not more than 34 bells , and parts thereof ...

1541(c) Carillons containing more than 34 bells , and parts thereof ....

1542 1544
1545

Phonographs , gramophones , graphophones , dictophones, and similar articles , and parts thereof, not specially provided for
Rosaries , chaplets , and similar articles of religious devotion , of whatever material composed (except if made in whole or in part of gold, silver , platinum, gold plate , silver plate , or precious or imitation precious stones) , regardless of value ....
Sponges: Commercially known as sheepswool ..... Commercially known as yellow, grass, or velvet All other , not specially provided for : Hardhead or reef ................................. Other

Rate of Duty
$1.25 each and 30% ad val.
$1.25 each and 25% ad val.
$1.25 each and 17-1/2% ad val.
30% ad val. 20% ad val. 10% ad val.
15% ad val.
15% ad val. 12% ad val. 7-1/2% ad val. 4% ad val. 7-1/2% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1325

SCHEDULE XX ·- UNITED ST

AMERICA

Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, para graph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

15476) and

Works of art, not specially provided for:
Paintings in oil or water colors , pastels , pen and ink drawings, and copies , replicas, or reproductions of any of the same ..
Etchings and engravings ......

10% ad val. 10% ad val.

15476)

Paintings in oil , mineral , water , or other

colors, pastels, and drawings and sketches in

pen and ink, pencil, or water color, any of

the foregoing (whether or not works of art)

suitable as designs for use in the mamifacture

of textiles, floor coverings, wall paper, or

wall coverings

.....

10% ad val.

1548 Peat moss

50 per ton

15496) Pencils of paper, wood, or other material not 50% per gross metal, filled with black lead or with copy or and 15% ad indelible lead, not specially provided for .. val.

1549 ) Crayons (including chalk crayons and charcoal crayo for .n.s or fusains ) , not specially provided .....

25¢ per gross and 15% ad val.

1549a )

Pencils filled with black lead or with copy or
indelible lead, stamped with names other than the manufacturers ' or the manufacturers ' trade name or trade- mark ........

50% per gross
and 15% ad val.

1549(0) 1551 1551

Copy or indelible leads, not specially provid ed for .......

Photographic dry plates, not specially provided for

Photographic films , sensitized but not exposed

or developed, of every kind except motion-

picture films having a width of one inch or

more

.....

20% ad val. 15% ad val.
6-1/4 ad val.

95347 0-49 -pt. 5- -84

A1326

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1551 Motion-picture films having a width of one inch 1/106 per linear

or more , sensitized but not exposed or

ft. of the

developed .....

standard width

of 1-3/8

inches, and all other

widths of 1 inch or more

shall be sub-

ject to duty in equal pro-

portion thereto

1552 Common tobacco pipes and pipe bowls made wholly of clay:
Valued at not more than 40 cents per gross 15¢ per gross Valued at more than 40 cents per gross ..... 22-1/2% ad val.

1552 Tobacco pipe bowls , wholly or in chief value of

brier or other wood or root , in whatever condi-

tion of manufacture , whether bored or unbored ,

and tobacco pipes having such bowls : Valued at not more than $5 per dozen .......

2-1/2 each and 40% ad val.

Valued at more than $5 per dozen ...

2-1/2 each and 20% ad val.

1552 Tobacco pipes , not specially provided for, having 1-1/46 each

clay bowls (not including meerschaum ) and

and 15%

mouthpieces of material other than clay ......

ad val.

1552 Cigar and cigarette holders , not specially pro-

vided for, of whatever material composed , and

in whatever condition of manufacture , whether

wholly or partly finished, or whether bored ar 5 each and

unbored .....

15% ad val.

1552 Mouthpieces for pipes , or for cigar and cigarette

holders , of whatever material composed, and in

whatever condition of manufacture , whether

2-1/2 each

wholly or partly finished , or whether bored or

and 1%5

unbored

ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1327

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1552 Pouches for chewing or smoking tobacco , finished

or partly finished, wholly or in chief value

of leather

20% ad val.

1552 Cases suitable for pipes , cigar and cigarette holders , finished or partly finished .

30% ad val.

1552 Cigarette books , cigarette-book covers, cigarette paper in all forms , except cork paper ... 30% ad val.

1552 All smokers ' articles whatsoever (except cigar

and cigarette boxes , finished or unfinished , wholly or in chief value of wood and valued at

50 cents or more each , or wholly or in chief value of silver and valued at 40 cents or more

per ounce), and parts thereof , finished or un-

finished, not specially provided for , of whatever material composed, except china , porcelain, parian, bisque , earthenware , or stoneware :

Cigar and cigarette cases and parts thereof, finished or unfinished, wholly or in chief value of leather .........

20% ad val.

Other ......

30% ad val.

1554 Walking canes , finished or unfinished , valued at

$5 or more per dozen ....

25% ad val.

1555 Waste, not specially provided for

7-1/2% ad val.

2556 Bleached beeswax ......

20% ad val.

1558 All raw or unmanufactured articles not enumerated or provided for (except frogs and frog legs)... 5% ad val.

1558 Articles manufactured, in whole or in part, not

specially provided for:

Thick soy; synthetic rubber and synthetic

rubber articles ; and textile grasses or

fibrous vegetable substances (except istle

or Tampico fiber)

10% ad val.

Fatty acids derived from vegetable, animal ,

or fish oils , or from animal fats or greases ...............

15% ad val.

A1328

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , para graph

Description of Products

1601 Acids , and acid anhydrides: Sulphuric acid or oil of vitriol .......
1602 Aloes , buchu leaves , ipecac , licorice root , mate, and pyrethrum or insect flowers , all of the foregoing which are natural and uncompounded and are in a crude state , not advanced in value or condition by shredding, grinding, chipping, crushing, or any other process or treatment whatever beyond that essential to proper packing and the prevention of decay or deterioration pending manufacture, and not containing alcohol
1604 Agricultural implements: Plows , tooth or disk harrows , headers , harvesters , reapers , agricul tural drills and planters , mowers , horserakes , cultivators , thrashing machines , machinery for use in the manufacture of sugar, wagons and carts , cream separators valued at not more than $50 each, and all other agricultural implements of any kind or description, not specially provided for, whether in whole or in parts , including repair parts , not including cotton gins and parts thereof and except bale ties
1606 y animal (except black or silver foxes , asses , and burros) , imported by a citizen of the United States specially for broeding purposes .......

1609 Annatto , archil , cudbear, gambier , litmus prepared or unpreparody all the foregoing, and extracts thereof, not containing alcohol .......

Rate of Duty
Free
Free
Free Free , subject
to the provisions of paragraph 1606 (a) , Tariff Act of 1930 ' Free

[46 Stat . 673; 19 U. S. C. § 1201.]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1329

SCHEDULE - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( contimed)

Tariff Act of
1930 , para graph

Description of Products

1611 Argols, tartar, and wine lees , crude or partly refined , containing less than 90 per centum of potassium bitartrate .......
1612 Arrowroot , crude or manufactured , and arrowroot starch and flour

1613 Sulphide of arsenic
1615(b) Steel boxes , casks, barrels , carboys , bags , metal drums , and other substantial outer containers (not including quicksilver flasks or bottles) of domestic or foreign manufacture, exported empty and returned as usual containers or coverings of merchandise, or exported filled with products of the United States and returned empty or as the usual containors or coverings of morchandise, in cluding shooks and staves produced in the United States when returned as boxes or barrels in use as the usual containers of merchandise ........

1615 ) Photographic dry platos and films of the manufac ture of the United States ( except moving-picture films to be used for commercial purposes ) , ex posed abroad, whothor developed or not
1616 Asbestos, unmanufactured , asbestos crudes , fibers , stucco , and sand and refuse containing not more than 15 per contum of foreign matter .......
1617 Taste bagging, and waste sugar sack cloth
1619 Barks, cinchona or other, from which quinine may be extracted ......
1621 Bibles, comprising the books of the Old or New Testament , or both, bound or unbound ........

Rate of Duty
Free Free Free
Froe Free Free Free Free Troe

A1330

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930,
para graph

Description of Products

Bate of Duty

1622 All binding twine mamufactured from New Zealand

hemp , honequen, manila, istle or Tampico fiber,

sisal grass , or sunn, or a mixture of any two or

more of them, of single ply and measuring not

exceeding seven hundred and fifty feet to the

pound ....

Free

1624 Fish sounds

Free

1628 Books , engravings , photographs , etchings , bound or unbound, maps and charts imported by authority
or for the use of the United States or for the use of the Library of Congress ........................................

Free

1629 Hydrographic charts and publications issued for their subscribers or exchanges by scientific or literary associations or academies , and publica tions of individuals for gratuitous private cir culation, not advertising matter, and public documents issued by foreign Governments; books ,
maps , music , engravings , photographs , etchings , lithographic prints , bound or unbound, and charts , which have been printed more than twenty years at the time of importation ........................

Free

Provided, That where any such books have been rebound wholly or in part in leather within such period, the binding so placed upon such books shall be dutiable as book bindings wholly or in part of leather, not specially provided for.

1630 Books and pamphlets printed wholly or chiefly in languages other than English ..

Free

1631 Any society or institution incorporated or established solely for religious , philosophical, edu cational , scientific , or literary purposes , or for the oncouragenent of the fine arts , or any colloge , academy, school , or seninary of learning in the United States , or any State or public library, may import free of duty any book, nap, music, engraving, photograph, etching, lithographic print , or chart, for its own use or for the encouragement of the fine arts, and not for sale ........

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1331

SCHEDULE X - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, parac graph

Description of Products

1632 Books, libraries , usual and reasonable furniture , and similar household effects of persons or families fron foreign countries if actually used abroad by then not less than one year, and not intended for any other person of persons , nor for sale .......

1636 Brazilian pebble , unwrought or unnamufactured ...

1641 Calcium Nitrate , and cyanimid or line nitrogen.

1642 Calcium arsonato ......

1643 Linotype and all typesetting machines, and sand-

blast machines , whother in whole or in part, in-

cluding repair parts ........................

....

1645 Chalk, crude, not ground, bolted , precipitated, or otherwise namfactured ........

1647 Chromite or chrone ore ......
1649 Citrons and citron peel , crude or dried
1650 Coal , anthracite , senianthracite, bituminous, semibituminous , culn , slack, and shale ; coke compositions used for fuel in which coal or coal dust is the component material of chief value, whether in briquets or other form ......

Rate of Duty
Free Free Free Free Free Free Free Free
Free

A1332

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

1651 Coal tar products : Acenaphthene , anthracono having a purity of less than 30 per centum, benzene , carbazole having a purity of less than 65 per centun , cunene , cynone , fluorene , nothylanthracene , nethlynaphthalene , naphthalene which after the removal of all the water presont has a solidifying point less than seventy-nine dogroes contigrade , pyridine , toluene , xylene, dead or creosote oil , anthracene oil , pitch of coal tar , pitch of blast-furnace tar , pitch of oil-gas tar, pitch of water-gas tar , crude coal tar, crude blast-furnace tar, crude oil-gas tar, crude water-gas tar , all other distillates of any of these tars which on boing subjected to distillation yield in the portion distilling below one hundred and ninety degrees centigrade a quantity of tar acids less than 5 per centum of the original distillate , all mixtures of any of these distillates and any of the foregoing pitches , and all other materials or products that are found naturally in coal tar, whether produced or obtained fron coal tar or other source, and not specially provided for in paragraph 27 or 28 of Title I of the Tariff Act of 1930
1652 Cobalt and cobalt ore
1653 Cocoa or cacao beans , and shells thereof .....
1654 Coffee , except coffee imported into Puerto Rico and upon which a duty is imposed under the authority of section 319 , Tariff Act of 1930 ...
1656 Coir
1658 Copper oro ; regulus of , and black or coarso copper, and cement copper; old copper , fit only for renamufacture , copper scale , clippings from new copper, and copper in plates , bars , ingots , or pigs, not manufactured or specially provided for
1665 Curling stones

Rate of Duty
Free Free Free Free Free Free Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1333

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of 1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

1666 Cuttlefish bone

Rate of Duty Free

1667 Sodium cyanide

Free

1668 Diamonds and other precious stones (except

emeralds) , rough or uncut , and not advanced in

condition or value from their natural state by

cleaving, splitting, cutting, or other process ,

whether in their natural form or broken ,

glaziers and engravers' diamonds , any of the foregoing not set , miners ' diamonds , and

diamond dust

Free

1669 Drugs such as barks, beans , berries, buds , bulbs,

bulbous roots , excrescences , fruits, flowers ,

dried fibers , dried insects , grains , herbs ,

leaves , lichens , mosses , logs , roots , stems ,

vegetables , seeds (aromatic , not garden seeds) ,

seeds of morbid growth, weeds , and all other

drugs of vegetable or animal origin ; all the

foregoing (except camomile or chamomile flowers,

lycopodium, sandalwood , quince seed , senna seed, psyllium seod , and fenugreek seed) which are

natural and uncompounded drugs and not edible.

and not specially provided for , and are in a crude state , not advanced in value or condition

by shredding, grinding , chipping , orushing, or any other process or treatment whatever beyond

that essential to the proper packing of the

drugs and the prevention of decay or deteriora-

tion panding manufacture , and not containing

alcohol

Free

......

1670 Dyeing or tanning materials : Logwood , mangrove bark, wattle bark , and nutgalls or gall nuts , all the foregoing, whether crude or advanced in value or condition by shredding, grinding, chipping, crushing, or any similar process ; all the foregoing not containing alcohol and not specially provided for

Free

A1334

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF A ERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1672 Corundum ore , and crude artificial abrasives , not

specially provided for ...

Free

1673 Floral essences and floral concretes , not mixed

or compounded with or containing alcohol

Free

1674 Fans, common palm-leaf , plain and not ornamented

or decorated in any manner ..

Free

1675 Ferrous sulphate or copperas ..

Free

1677 Fish (except goldfish and other aquarium fish)

imported to be used for purposes other than

human consumption ......

Free

1678 Fishskins , raw or salted

Free

1681 Furs and fur skins , not specially provided for ,

undressed (except seal , guanaquito , hare ,

jackal , leopard , and wildcat)

Free

1682 Game animals and birds killed in foreign countries by residents of the United States and imported by them for noncommercial purposes ... Free

1683 Goldbeaters' molds and goldbeaters ' skins ...

Free

1684 Grasses and fibers : Sisal , jute , jute butts , kapok, New Zealand fiber , maguey , ramie or

China grass , raffia , and textile grasses or fibrous vegetable substances , not dressed or

manufactured in any manner, and not specially

provided for (except broomroot) ....

Free

1685 Guano, basic slag (ground or unground) , manures ,

and (notwithstanding any other provision of the Tariff Act of 1930) those grades of all other

substances (except ground or pulverized lime-

stone) used chiefly for fertilizers , or chiefly

as an ingredient in the manufacture of ferti-

tizers .....

Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1335

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

1686 Gums and resins: Damar, kauri , copal , dragon's
blood, tragasol , and natural gums , natural gua resins , and natural resins , not specially provided for (except mastic , talks, and cashew nut shell liquid)

1688 Hair of horse , cattle , and other animals, cleaned or uncleaned , drawn or undrawn , but un-
manufactured, not specially provided for (except dressed soft hair, goat and kid hair, and cattle tail hair) .......

1689 Hide cuttings , raw, with or without hair, ossein, and all other glue stock .....
1691 Hides and akins of the India water buffalo inported to be used in the manufacture of rawhide articles

1692 Hones, whetstones , and grindstones .

1693 Hoofs , unmanufactured

1694 Horns and parts of , including horn strips and tips , unmanufactured
1696 Ice .....

1697 India rubber and gutta-percha, crude , including Jelutong or pontianak, guayule , gutta balata, and gutta siak , and scrap or refuse india rubber and gutta-percha fit only for remami facture ......

1698 Iodine, crude .....

1699 Iridium, osmium , palladium , rhodium, and ruthenium , and native combinations thereof with
one another or with platinum ....... ..........

1700 Iron ore , including nanganiferous iron ore ......

Rate of Duty
Free
Free Free Free Free Tree Free Tree
Free Free Free Free

A1336

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tarif Act of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

1701 Ivory tusks in their natural state or cut vertically across the grain only, with the bark left intact ......

1703 Joss stick or joss light 1704 Waste rope

1707 Lac: Crude, seed, button, stick, or shell

1710 Asphaltum and bitumen ( except petroleum asphaltum) ......

1714 Manuscripts, not specially provided for ......

1716 Mechanically ground wood pulp, chemical wood pulp. unbleached or bleached ......

1718 Mineral salts obtained by evaporation from mineral waters , when accompanied by a duly authenticated certificate and satisfactory proof showing that they are in no way artifi-
cially prepared and are only the product of a designated nineral spring .....

1719 Minerals , crude , or not advanced in value or con-

dition by refining or grinding , or by other

process of manufacture, not specially provided

for: Lignite , Cornwall stone , gravel , natural

gas, nepheline syenite , beryllium ore,

titanium ore (excopt ilmenite and ilnonite

sand) , columbium or niobium ores or concen-

trates , tantalum ore , and zirconiun ores or

concentrates ......

....

1722 Moss, seaweeds , and vegetable substancos , crudo
or unnanufactured , not specially provided for : Moss, marjoran loaves, derris root , and tuba or tube root

1724 Noedlos , hand sewing or darning

Rato of Duty
Tree Free Free Free Froe Free Freo
Free
Free
Froe Froo

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1337

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930 , paragraph

Description of Products

1725 Nets or finished sections of nets for use in
otter trawl fishing , if composed wholly or in chief value of nanila .....

1726 Newspapers and periodicals , unbound

1727 011-bearing seeds and nuts: Copra, hempseed ,

pala muts, paln-nut kernels , rapeseed , perilla

and sesame seed; babassu nuts and kernels;

ouricuri kernels ; nuru muru kernels; and tucun

kernels

....

1729 Oakun .....

1730(b) Eulachon oil , cod oil , and cod-liver oil

1731 Oils, distilled or essential , not containing alcohol : Anise , bitter almond , camphor ,
caraway , cassia , cinnamon , citronella, geranium, lavender , line , lignaloe or bois de rose, neroli or orange flower, origanum , and ylang ylang or cananga .....

1732 Oils , expressed or extracted: Paln and perilla; palm kernel rendered unfit for use as food or for any but mechanical or manufacturing pur poses; tung oil; and nut oils not specially provided for ( except cashew nut kernel oil) ...
1733 Oils, mineral: Petroleum, topped crude , fuel , or refined, and all distillates obtained from petroleum , including kerosene , benzine , naphtha, gasoline , paraffin , and paraffin oil . not specially provided for
1734 Nickel ore; nickel matte; nickel oxide

1735 Duplex decalcomania paper not printed 1736 Parchment and vellum

Rate of Duty
Free Free
Free Free Free
Free
Free
Free Free Free Free

A1338

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAY.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930 , para graph

Description of Products

1738 Pearl, mother of, and shells , not sawed , cut,
flaked, polished , or otherwise manufactured, or advanced in value from the natural state .......

1740 Phosphates , crude

1741 Pigeons , fancy or racing
1743 Plaster rock or gypsum, crude
NOTE: The existing customs classification treatment of gypsum which has been broken merely for the purpose of facilitating its shipment to the United States as " crude" in accordance with the decision of the United States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals in the case of Gulf Gypsum Co. v. United States , 20 C.C. P.A. 101 , T.D. 45725, shall be continued during the effective period of this Agreement .
1744 Platinum, unmanufactured or in ingots, bars, sheets , or plates not less than one- eighth of one inch in thickness , sponge, or scrap

1745 Potassium chloride or muriate of potash, potassium sulphate, kainite , wood ashes and boot-root ashes , and all crude potash salts not specially provided for
1748 Quinine sulphate and all alkaloids and salts of alkaloids derived from cinchona bark ...

1749 Radium, and salts of .....

1750 Rag pulp; paper stock, crude , of every descrip tion, including all grasses , fibers , rage,
waste ( including jute , hemp , and flax waste) , shavings, clippings , old paper , rope ends , waste rope , and waste bagging, and all other waste not
specially provided for, including old gunny cloth, and old gunny bags , used chiefly for paper making, and no longer suitable for bags ..

Rate of Duty Free Free Tree Free
Free Tree Free Free
Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30 , 1947

A1339

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1753 Sago , crude , and sago flour

1755 Sausage casings , weasands , intestines , bladders ,

tendons , and integuments , not specially provided

for .......

.......

1756 Sea herring and smelts , fresh or frozen , whether or not packed in ice , and whether or not whole..

1758 Selenium, and salts of ....

1759 Sheep dip

1760 Shingles of wood ( except red- cedar shingles) .....
NOTE: Bundles of shingles , other than red- codar shingles, shal not be required to be markod to indicate tho country of origin.

1761 Lobsters , clams , quahaugs , crabs , and oysters (excopt soed oystors) , fresh or frozen, and scallops , fresh, but not frozen, all the foregoing whether or not packed in ice , and lobsters, prepared or preserved in any manner (including lobster pastes and sauces); any of the forogoing not specially provided for...
1762 Silk cocoons and silk waste

1763 Silk, raw, in skeins reeled from the cocoon, or rereeled, but not wound , doubled, twisted, or advanced in mamufacture in any way ..........

1764 Skeletons and other preparations of anatomy ......

1765 Skins of all kinds , raw, and hides not specially provided for ( except horse , colt , ass , and mule skins or hides , dry or dry- salted , and except carpincho , goat , and kid skins)
1766 Sodium: Nitrate, crude or refined; sulphate, crude , or crude salt cake .......

Rate of Duty Free Free Free Free Free Free
Free Free Free Free
Free Free

A1340

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, para graph

Description of Products

1768 (1 ) and(2)

Spice and spice seeds! Cassia, cassia buds , and cassia vera; cloves; clove stems; cinnamon and
cinnamon chips ; ginger root , not preserved or candied; nace; nutnegs; black or white pepper; and pinento
(allspice) ; all the foregoing, if unground ....

Rate of Duty Free

Caraway

Free

1771 Stamps: Postage or revenue stamps , canceled or uncanceled, and government stamped
envelopes or post cards bearing no other printing than the official imprint thereon .... Free

1772 Standard newsprint paper

Free, subject to the provisions of
Public Law
315, approved August 1, 1947

1773 Statuary and casts of sculpture for use as models or for art educational purposes

only; regalia and gens , where specially imported in good faith for the use and by order of any society incorporated or established solely for religious , philo-

sophical , educational , scientific , or literary purposes , or for the encourage nent of the fine arts , or for the use and

by order of any college . academy , school ,

seminary of learning , orphan asylum, or public hospital in the United States, or

any State or public library, and not for

sale

Free

1 [61 Stat. , Pt. 1 ; p. 716.]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1341

-

SOHEDULE X UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, para graph

Description of Products

1775 Stone and sand: Burrstone in blocks, rough or unmanufactured; quartzite; traprock;
rottenstone, tripoli , and sand, crude or manufactured; silica; cliff stone ,
freestone , granite , and sandstone, unman ufactured , and not suitable for use as
nonunental , paving, or building stone; all the foregoing not specially provided for .......

NOTE: The existing customs classification treatment of ground nepheline syenite as being provided for in paragraph 1775, Tariff Act of 1930 , in accordance with the ruling announced in T. D. 51462(1) , shall be continued during the effective period of this Agreement.

1776 Strontianite or mineral strontium carbonate and celestite or mineral strontiun
sulphate

1777 Sulphur in any form ..

1779 Tamarinds

Rate of Duty
Free
Tree Free Free

95347 0-49- pt. 5- -85

A1342

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, para graph

Description of Products

1780 Fish scrap , fish meal , cod liver oil cake , and sod-
liver oil cake meal , all the foregoing unfit for human consumption .... ............

1781 Tapioca , tapioca flour, and cassava

1782 Locust or carob beans , and pods and seeds thereof 1183 (b)Tea not specially provided for ......

1785 Tin ore or cassiterite , and black oxide of tin

1786 Tin bars , blocks , or pigs , alloys in chief value of tin not specially provided for , and grain or granulated and scrap tin, including scrap tin plate
NOTE: The United States reserves the right to modify the customs treatment provided for in this item in the event that , and for so long as, the equality between the rate of duty on smelted tin and the rate on tin ores and concentrates, provided for in Part I of Section D of Schedule XIX is not maintained.
1787 Tobacco stems not cut , ground, or pulverized .....
1790 Turtles .....
1794 Vegetable tallow 1795 Wafers, not edible

Rate of Duty
Free Free Free Free Free, subject
to the provisions of paragraph 1785, Tariff Act of 1930 ']
Free, subject to the provisions of paragraph 1785, Tariff Act of 1930 '
Free Free Free Free

1 [46 U. S. C. 682; 19 U. S. C. § 1201.]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE - OCT. 30, 1947

A1343

SCHEDULE - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1796 Fax: Beeswax not specially provided for; vege table ( except japan and candelilla) , and
ceresin, not specially provided for

1800 All barbed wire , whether plain or galvanized .....

1801 Witherite , crude,. ungrou id

1803 (1)

Wood: Timber hewn , sided , or squared, otherwise than by sawing, and round timber used for spars or in building wharves ; sawed lumber and
timber, not further manufactured than planed , and tongued and grooved; all the forogoing
(except balsa , Japanose white oak , Japanose maple, and toak) not specially provided for ....

NOTE : The United States reserves the right to
impose duties , in addition to the import taxes under section 3424 , Internal Revenue Code , [') as
modified pursuant to this Agreement , on sawed lumber and timber provided for in this item which are of the woods named in item 404 1 of
this Part, when planed or dressed on one or more sides , at rates not in excess of the rates
specified in the said item 404 for lumber of such woods in the forms provided for therein .

1803(2 ) Logs ( except balsa ) ; timber , round, unmanu factured; pulp woods ; firewood, handle bolts , shingle bolts; and laths ; all the foregoing not specially provided for .....

1804 Posts , railroad ties , and telephone , trolley , electric- light , and telegraph poles of codar or other woods

NOTE : Telephone , trolley , electrio- light , and
telegraph poles of wood shall not be required to be marked to indicate the country of origin .

1805 Pickets , palings , hoops , and staves of wood of all

kinds ....

....

Rate of Duty Free Free Free
Free
Free Free Free

1 [53 Stat. 415 ; 26 U. S. C. § 3424. ] 2 [ Ante, p. A1221 . ]

A1344

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, para graph

Description of Products

1806 Woods: Sticks of partridge , hair wood , pimento, orange , myrtle , bamboo , rattan, india malacca
joints , and other woods not specially provided for, in the rough, or not further advanced than
cut into lengths suitable for sticks for unbrellas , parasols , sunshades , whips , fishing rods, or walking canes ......

1807 Original paintings in oil, mineral , water , or other colors , pastels , original drawings and skotches in pen, ink, pencil , or water colors , artists ' proof etchings unbound, and engravings and woodcuts unbound, original sculptures or statuary, including not more than two replicas or reproductions of the same .....
1809 Works of art , collections in illustration of the progress of the arts , sciences , agriculture , or manufactures, photographs , works in terra cotta, parian, pottery , or porcelain, antiquities and artistic copies thereof in metal or other material, imported in good faith for exhibition at a fixed place by any State or by any society or institution established for the encouragement of the arts , science , agriculture, or education, or for a municipal corporation, and all like articles imported in good faith by any society or association, or for a municipal corporation , for the purpose of erecting a public momument , and not intended for sale nor for any other purpose than herein expressed ...
1810 Stained or painted window glass or stained or painted glass windows which are works of art when importod to be used in houses of worship , valued at $15 or more per square foot .......
1811 Works of art (except rugs and carpets) , collections in illustration of the progress of the arts , works in bronze , marble , terra cotta, parian, pottery, or porcelain, artistic antiquities, and objects of art of ornamental character or educational value which shall have been produced prior to the year 1830. Violins , violas , violoncellos , and double basses , of all sizes , made in the year 1800 or prior year ....

Rate of Duty Free Free
Free Tree Free

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A1345

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Tariff
Act of
1930 , tion

Description of Products

311 Wheat , when manufactured into flour in the United States and the flour exported

312 Ores and crude metals provided for in paragraph 1658 , Tariff Act of 1930, when smelted or refined in the United States and the products
exported ..

Rate of Duty
Exempt from duty, subject to the provisions of section 311 , Tariff Act of 1930, and section 2 (a), Act of June12, 1934 19
Exempt from duty and import tax, subject to the provisions of section 312, Tariff Act of 19301'1

Internal Revenue Code , [5] Section

Rate of import tax

2491 (a) Whale oil ( except sperm oil ) 2491 (a) Herring oil

1-1/24 per lb. 3/4¢ per lb.

2491(a) Menhaden oil .....

34 per lb.

2491 (a) Shark oil and shark-liver oil , including oil pro-

duced from sharks known as dogfish ....

14 per lb.

2491(a) Fish-liver oils classifiable under paragraph 34 or

1669, Tariff Act of 1930 ...

1-1/24 per lb.

1 [ 46 Stat. 691 ; 19 U. S. C. § 1311. ] 2 [48 Stat. 944 ; 19 U. S. C. § 1352. ]
[46 Stat. 676 ; 19 U. S. C. § 1201. ] [46 Stat. 692 ; 19 U. S. C. § 1312. ] [53 Stat. 1 : 26 U. S. C. §§ 1-5012 . ] [46 Stat. 596, 677 ; 19 U. S. C. §§ 1001 , 1201. ]

A1346

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X UNITE STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Internal Revenue Code , sections

Description of Products

Rate of import tax

2491(a) Eulachon oil

2491 (a) Seal oil

2491 (a) Tallow, inedible

2491 (a)

Tool grease ! Containing more than 2 per centum of free fatty acids ...... Containing 2 per centum or less of free fatty acids and not suitable for medicinal use **** ........ Suitable for medicinal use , including adeps
lanae , hydrous or anhydrous

2491(a)

Inedible animal oils , inedible animal fats, and
inedible animal greases , any of the foregoing of a class or kind provided for in the provision of paragraph 52, Tariff Act of 1930 , for "all other animal oils , fats , and greases , not specially provided for" ( except neatsfoot oil and animal oils known as neatsfoot stock )

2491(b) Kapok oil ....

2491 (b) Perilla oil

2491 (a) Hempseed ......

2491 (a) Perilla seed

2491 (d) Rapeseed ....... 2491(a) Sesame seed

3422 Topped crude petroleum, fuel oil derived from petroleum including fuel oil known as gas oil, and all liquid derivatives of crude petroleum (except lubricating oil and such derivatives specified hereinafter in any item 3422 ).........
Provided , That in no event shall the rate of import tax applicable under section 3422 , Internal Revenue Code , or any modification thereof, to topped crude petroleum or fuel oil derived from petroleum be less than the rate of such tax applicable to crude petroleum .

1-1/24 per lb. 2-7/104 per lb. 1-1/24 per lb.
24 per lb. 24 per lb. 34 per lb.
2-7/10 per lb. 2-1/4 per lb. 34 per lb. 0.624 per lb. 0.69 per lb. 14 per lb. 0.594 per lb.
1/44 per gal.

1 [46 Stat. 597; 19 U. S. C. § 1001.) 2 [53 Stat. 414; 26 U. S. C. § 3422.)

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1347

SCHEDULE XI UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I ( continued)

Interral Revere Code , Lection

Description of Products

Rate of import tax

3422 3422

Mineral oil of medicinal grade , derived from petroleum
Gasoline or other motor fuel

3422 Lubricating oil 3422 Paraffin and other petroleum wax products ...

3423 Coal of all sizes , grades , and classifications (except culm and duff) , coke manufactured therefrom; and coal or coke briquettes .............

1/2 per gal . 1-1/4 per gal. 24 per gal, 1/2 per lb.
10 per 100 lb.

A1348

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (continued)

Internal Revenue
Code , section

Description of Product

Rate of import tax

3424 Lumber , including sawed timber , rough , or planed or dressed on one or more sides (except lumber and timber of teak , balsa , Japanese white oak, Japanese maple, Northern white pine (pinus strobus) , Norway pine (pinus resinosa) , and Western white spruce , and except flooring made of maple , birch, and beech): Lignum vitae , lancewood , ebony, and box: Not further manufactured than sawed
Further manufactured than sawed ......
Cedar commercially known as Spanish cedar, granadilla , mahegany, rosewood , and satinwood : Not further manufactured than sawed
Further manufactured than sawed .....
Fir, spruce , pine , hemlock, larch, and cedar (except cedar commercially known as Spanish cedar)
other
Provided, That in determining board measure for the purposes of this item no deduction shall be made on account of planing, tonguing, and grooving.
Provided further, That, in the event the United States exercises the right reserved by the note in iter 1803 of this Part , the rates of import tax imposed pursuant to section 3421 , Internal Revenue Code , l' on lumber and timber described above as further manufactured

$1.50 per 1000 ft., board measure
$3 per 1000 ft., board measure
75¢ per 1000 ft. , board measure
$1.50 per 1000 ft., board measure
75¢ per 1000 ft. , board measure
$1.50 per 1000 ft. , board measure

1 [Ante, p. A1343 . ] 2 [53 Stat. 415 ; 26 U. S. C. § 3424. ]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1349

SCHEDULE - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part I (ooncluded )

Internal Revenue Code , section

Description of Products

Rate of import tax

3404

Provided further, ( continued)

coa .

than sawed shall not exceed the rates

respectively prescribed for lumber and

timber of like wood not further manu

factured than sawed.

3425 Copper-bearing ores and concentrates and articles
provided for in paragraph 316, 380, 381 , 387, 1620 , 1634 , 1657 , 1658 , or 1659, Tariff Act of 1930 ...

24 per lb. on the copper
contained therein

3425 All articles dutiable under the Tariff Act of 1930, not provided for in the preceding item, in which copper (including copper in alloys) is the component material of chief value

1-1/24 per lb.

3425 All articles dutiable under the Tariff Act of

1-1/2% ad val.

1930, not provided for in either of the two

or 3/84 per

preceding items , containing 4 per centum or more lb. , which-

of copper by weight

ever is the

lower

3451 Topped crude petroleum, fuel oil derived from petroleum including fuel oil known as gas oil, and all liquid derivatives of crude petroleum; lubricating oil ; gasoline or other motor fuel ; and paraffin and other petroleun wax products; any of the foregoing sold for use as fuel supplies , ships ' stores , soa stores , or legiti mate equipment on vessels of war of the United States or of any foreign nation , vessels employed in the fisheries or in the whaling business , or actually engaged in foreign trade or trade botweon the Atlantic and Pacific ports of the United States or between the United Statos and any of its possessions

Exempt from taxes imposed by sections
3420 and 3422, Internal Revenue Code ,!') subject to the provisions of
section 3451, Internal Revenue Codel']

1 [46 Stat. 613, 626, 627, 674, 675, 676; 19 U. S. C. §§ 1001 , 1201.] 2 [53 Stat. 414; 26 U. S. C. §§ 3420, 3422. ] 3 [53 Stat. 419; 26 U. S. C. § 3451.]

A1350

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Part II

Preferential Tariff

(See general notes at the end of this Schedule. )

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

5 and 23
24

All medicinal preparations of animal origin, not specially provided for, whether or not in any form or container specified in paragraph 23, Tariff Act of 1930 ...................
Flavoring extracts , and natural or synthetic fruit flavors, fruit esters , oils and essences, all the foregoing and their combinations : Containing 20 per centun of alcohol or less ........ Containing more than 20 per centum and not more than 50 per centum of alcohol.... Containing more than 50 per centum of alcohol ...............

10% ad val.
126 per lb. and 14.4% ad val
246 per lb. and 14.4% ad.val.
48 per lb. and 14.4% ad val.

Provided, That, whenever the foregoing products are subject to a Federal tax on the alcoholic content measured in whole or in part by the rate of an internal Fed-
eral tax imposed in respect of the aloohol contained in the like domestic products, the specific parts of the foregoing rates shall be reduced from 12, 24, and 48 cents to 7-1/2, 15, and 30 oents, respectively, and the ad valoran parts thereof shall be reduced in each case to 10% ad valorom.

34

Drugs of animal origin (except halibut-liver oil)

which are natural and uncompounded drugs and

not edible, and not specially provided

for , but which are advanced in value or con-

dition by shredding, grinding, chipping,

crushing, or any other process or treatment

whatever beyond that essential to the proper

packing of the drugs and the prevention of

decay or deterioration pending manufacture, and not containing alcohol ....

4% ad val.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-OCT. 30, 1947

A1351

SCHEDULE X UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part II (continued)

Tarlis Act of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

52 Shark oil and shark- liver oil , including oil produced fron sharks known as dogfish , not
specially provided for

58 Grapefruit oil, distilled or essential , not
mixed or compounded with or containing alcohol .............. .......

67 Barytes ore, crude or unnanufactured .....

202(a) Tiles, however provided for in paragraph 202(a) , Tariff Act of 1930: Geranic nosaic , valued at not more than 40 cents per square foot ......

Other (except floor and wall tiles) : Valued at not more than 40 cents per square foot ....
Valued at more than 40 cents per square foot .........
406 Hubs for wheels , heading bolts , stave bolts, last blocks, wagon blocks , oar blocks , heading blocks , and all like blocks or sticks, rough hewn, or rough shaped, saved or bored
408 Boxes , barrels, and other articles containing oranges, lemons, lines, grapefruit , shaddocks or ponelos
Provided, That the thin wood, so called, conprising the sides , top3, and bottoms of fruit boxes of the growth or manufacture of the United States , exported as fruit-box shooks , may be reimported in completed form, filled with fruit , by the payment of duty at

Bate of Duty
4 ad val.
10% ad val. $3.20 per ton
54 per sq. ft . , but not less than 25% nor nore than 3,5% ad val .
5 per sq. ft. , but not less than 25% nor Dore than 35% ad val.
30% ad val.
4% ad val.
10% ad val. 1/2 the rate imposed on similar boxes of entirely foreign growth and namfaoture

A1352

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE X 1 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part II (continued)

Tariff Act of
1930, para graph

Dos cription of Products

501 Sugars, tank bottoms , sirups of cane juice, nelada, concentrated nelada, concrete and concer trated molasses , testing by the polariscope not above seventy-five sugar degrees , and all nigtures containing sugar and water , testing by the polariscope above fifty sugar degrees and not above seventy-fivo sugar degree8 ....... and for each additional sugar degree shown by the polariscopic test

502 Molasses and sugar sirups , not specially provided fort
Containing soluble nonsugar solids (excluding any foreign substance that may have
been added or dovoloped in the product) equal to more than 6 per centum of the total soluble solidai
Testing not above 48 per contun total sugars ....
Testing above 48 per centun total sugars ...

Other:
Testing not above 48 per ccntun total sugars
Testing above 48 per contum total sugars .....

Bate of Duty
0.34254 per lb. 0.0075 per lb.
additional, and frac tions of a degree in proportion
0.094 per gal. 0.0994 addi-
tional for each per centun of total sugars and fractions of a per centum in proportion
0.14 per gal. 0.114 addi-
tional for each per centun of total sugars and fractions of a per centun in proportion

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -- OCT. 30, 1947

A1353

SCHEDULE X - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part II ( continued)

Tariff Lot of
1930, para graph

Description of Products

Bate of Duty

502 Molasses not imported to be commercially used

0.0124 per lb.

for the oxtraction of sugar or for hunan con-

of total

sumption ..........

..........

sugars

506 Sugar candy and all confectionery not specially provided for, valued at 6 cents or more per pound ...........
601 Trapper tobacco , and filler tobacco when ixed or packed with more than 35 per centun of wrapper tobacco , if unstermed .....

10% ad val. 914 per lb.

601 Filler tobacco (except cigarette leaf tobacco) not specially provided for: If unstenned ....... If stemned
603 Scrap tobacco ......
605 Cigars, and cheroots of all kinds

14 por lb. 204 per lb.
144 per lb.
$1.50 per lb. and 10% ad val.

709 Butter, if entered when the most favored-nation

rate for butter is in excess of 112 cents per

pound .....

11.24 per lb.

6085

A1354

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX · UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part II (continued )

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph

Description of Products

710 Edam and Gouda cheese containing less than 40 per oentum of butterfat .

Rate of Duty
4 per lb. , but not less than 20% ad val.

717(a ) Fish (except halibut , salmon , mackerel , swordfish,

and

eels , shod , sturgeon, cod , haddock, hake, pol-

(b)

lock, cusk, fresh-water fish, rosefish , and

white sea bass or totoaba ) , fresh or frozen

(whether or not packed in ice ) :

Whole, or beheaded or eviscerated or both,

but not further advanced (except that the

fins may be removed ) Filleted, skinned , boned , sliced, or divided

into portions , not specially provided for ..

2/5 per lb. lé per lb.

718(a ) Fish, prepared or preserved in any manner, when packed in oil or in oil and other substances :
Bonito and yellowtail : Valued at not over 9 cents per pound , including the weight of the immediate container .......
Valued at over 9 cents per pound, includ ing the weight of the immediate container .................

22% ad val. 15% ad val.

718(b) Fish (except solmon , herring, sardines , anchovies , tuna , antipasto , and smoked pollock) , prepared or preserved in any manner , when packed in airtight containers weighing with their contents not more than fifteen pounds each (except fish packed in oil or in oil and other substances ) ...
743 Limes, in their natural state ..
743 Grapefruit : When entered during the period from August 1 to September 30 , inclusive , in any year .··· When entered during the month of October in any year .................. . Other

10% ad val. 4/5 per lb.
3/10 per lb. 6/10 per lb. 1-1/56 per lb.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE- OCT. 30, 1947

A1355

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERIC Part II ( continued)

Tariff Aot of 1930,
pararoph

Description of Products

746 Mangoes ..................

747 Pineapples : Not in bulk

Candied, crystallized , or glace .... Otherwise prepared or preserved, and not
specially provided for .. ...............
751 Jellies, jams , marmalades , and fruit butter : Quava (except jelly and marmalade) ; pineapple; mango; papaya ; momey colorado
(calocarpum mammosum); sweetsop (annona squamosa);   (annona muricata ); sapodilla (sapota achras ); Cashew apple (anacardium occidentale ) ; and currant and
other berry (except jellies ) other (except quince, and except orange
marmalade , guava jelly and marmelade , and currant and other berry jellies) .
752 Fruits in their natural state, or in brine , pickled, dried, destocated, evaporated, or otherwise prepared or preserved, and not specially provided for: Bananas (not including bananas in their natural state and except dried, desiocated, or evaporated bananas ); plantains ; gunvas ; papayas (not including papayas in their natural state ); mameyes colorados (calocarpum mammosum); sweets ops (annona squamosa); soursops (annona muricata); sapodillas (sapota achras); and cashew apples (anacardium occidentale) ........ Other (except dried, desiccated, or evaporated bananas and not including papayas er watermelons in their natural state )

752 Mixtures of two or more fruits , prepared or preserved

Rate of Duty 34 per lb. 20% per arate
of 2.45 ou.ft. 14% ad val. 0.55 per lb.
10% ad val, 143 ad val.
10% ad val. 14% ad val. 14% ad val.

A1356

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part II (continued)

Tariff Aot of 1930, paragraph

Description of Products

752 Fruit pastes and fruit pulps : Guava ; mongo; papaya; mamey colorado (calocarpum maimosum); sweetsop (annona 8quamosa); sours op annona muricata);
sapodilla (sapota achras) ; and cashow

apple (anacardium occidentale ) ..........

Other (except apricot)

....

765 Lima beans, green or unripe : mhen entered during the period from June 1 to October 31, inclusive , in any year ... Other ......

771 White or Irish potatoes , other than certified seed potatoes as defined in the first item 771 in Part I of this Schedule, when entered during the period from December 1, in any year, to the last day of the following February, inclusive ..
772 Tomatoes in their natural state : When entered during the period from November 15, in any year, to the last day of the following February, inclusive ..... When entered during the period from March 1 to July 14, inclusive , or . during the period from September 1 to November 14, inclusive, in any year .........

774 Vegetables in their natural state : Eggplant : When entered during the period from April 1 to November 30, inclusive , in any year ..... Other ......
Cucumbers : When entered during the period from December 1, in any year, to the last day of the following February, inclusive .......
When entered during the period from March 1 to June 30, inclusive, or
during the period from September 1 to November 30, inclusive , in any year ..

Rate of Duty
10% ad val. 14% ad val. 2-4/56 per lb. 1-2/5 per lb.
30 per 100 lb.
1-1/56 per lb. 1-4/5 per lb.
1-1/5 per lb. 3/5 per lb. le per lb. 2-2/54 per lb.

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE -OCT. 30 , 1947

A1357

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part II (continued)

Tariff Aot of
1930, paragraph

Description of Products

774 Vegetables in their natural state : ( continued) oon .
Desheens ...................................
Okra, when entered during the period from December 1 , in any year, to the following Hay 31, inclusive .......

775 Pimientos , paoked in brine or in oil, or prepared or preserved in any manner ...................
802 Ethyl alcohol for beverage purposes , and rum

1005(a (1)

Cordage, including cables , tarred or untarred, oomposed of three or more strands , each strand
composed of two or more yarns : Wholly or in chief value of sisal or
hene quen : Smaller than three-fourths of one inch in diameter ................................

1406 Labels, flaps , and cigar bands, composed wholly or in chief value of paper lithographically printed in whole or in part from stone, gelatin, metal , or other material, but not printed in whole or in part in metal loaf and not specially provided for (except labels and flaps not exoeeding ton square inches cutting size in dimensions , if embossed or die-out ) : Printed in less than eight colors (bronze printing to be counted as two colors ) : Labels and flaps Cigar bands ............. Printed in eight or more colors (bronze printing to be counted as two colors ): Labels and flaps ....................... Cigar bands .......
1528 Diamonds , cut but not set , and suitable for use in the manufacture of jewelry ..........
1530( ) Hides and skins of cattle of the bovine species (except buffalo hides and skins ) : Calf or kip skins, dried or dry-salted and weighing not more than 6 pounds each..

Rate of Duty
4/50 per lb. 20% ad val. 15% ad val. 3-3/5 per lb. $1.75 per proof
gal,
4/56 per lb. and 6% ad val.
4/56 per lb.
156 per lb. 246 per lb. 20% per lb. 254 per lb. 8% ad val.
4% ad val.

95347 0--49 -pt. 5-86

A1358

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 61 STAT.

SCHEDULE - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part II (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, para

Description of Products

Rate of Duty

1530 Leather (except leather provided for in subpara-

(b)(1) graph (d) of paragraph 1530, Tariff Act of 1930) ,

and

made from hides or skins of cattle of the bovine

(4)

species, not cut or wholly or partly manufactured

into outer or inner solos, blocks , strips ,

counters , taps , box toes , uppers, vamps, or any

forms or shapes suitable for conversion into

boots, shoes, or footwoar:

Sale leather (not including offal ) , rough, partly finishod , finishod, or curried .....

Side upper grad ns and finished splits (except

wax splits) not made from calf or kip skins,

rough , partly finished, or finished

Side upper splits not made from calf or kip

skins, rough or wax

Upper leather made from calf or kip skins,

rough, partly finished, or finishod

8% ad val.
10% ad val. 8% ad val. 12% ad val.

1531 Bolts and buckles designed to be worn on the person, wholly or in chief value of leather ........ 14% ad val.

1531 Women's and children's handbags and pocketbooks , wholly or in chief value of reptile leather .... 14% ad val.

1538 Manufactures of mother-of-pearl or shell , or of which these substances or either of them is the

component material of chief value , not specially

provided for; and shells and pieces of shells

engraved, cut , ornamented, or otherwise mamfactured ...

18% ad val .

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A1359

SCHEDULEH - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part II (continued)

Tariff Act of 1930, paragraph

Description of Products

1541 Musical instruments and parts thereof , not

(a)

specially provided for (except cymbals , or

gans, pianos, concertinas and all other so-

cordions , stringed instruments, harmonicas,

music boxes , wood-winds , brass-winds , sets

of tuned bells of the types known as chimes

or peals, and parts of any of the foregoing)

1545 Sponges , not specially provided for ( except hardhead or reef) .......

1558 Frog legs, fresh, chilled, frozen, prepared, or preserved ......

1558 Banana flour and plantain flour

Internal
Revenue Code , section

249114 (a)

Fish oil (except cod oil, cod-liver oil, halibut-liver oil, and herring oil , and not
including whale oil) : Shark oil and shark-livor oil, including oil produced fron sharks known as dogfish ......
Other, if classifiable under paragraph. 34 or 1669, Tariff Act of 1930 1

Bate of Duty
20% ad val. 6$ ad val. 8% ad val. 10% ad val.
Rate of import tax
3/44 per lb. 1-1/5¢ per 1b,

1 [53 Stat. 267; 26 U. S. C. § 2491 (a).] 2 [46 Stat. 596, 677; 19 U. S. C. §§ 1001 , 1201.]

A1360

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE

STATES OF AMERICA

Part II (continued)

Internal Revenue Code section

Description of Products

3424

Lamber, including sawed timber, rough, or planed or dressed on one or more sides (except lumber and timber of teak, balsa, Japanese
white oak, fir, spruce, pine, henlock, larch, naple, birch, beech, and cedar other than cedar commercially known as Spanish cedar) :
Lignum vitae , lancewood, ebony, and box, further namufactured than sawed ........
Oodar commercially known as Spanish cedar, granadilla, nahogany, rosewood, and satinwood, further manufactured than saved ......
Other (except lignun vitae , lancewood, ebony, box, cedar commercially known as Spanish cedar, granadilla, nahogany, rosewood, and satinwood, not further nanufactured than sawed) ......

Provided , That in determining board measure for the purposes of this item no deduction shall be made on account
of planning, tonguing, and grooving . Provided further, That, in the event the
United States exercises the right reserved by the note in itm 1803 of Part I of this Schedule , this item shall be inoperative thereafter in respect of lumber and timber described herein as further manufactured than sawed.

Rate of import tax
$2.40 per 1000 ft., board measure
$1.20 per 1000 ft., board measure
$1.20 per 1000 ft., board measure

1 [ Ante, p. A1343. ]

61 STAT. ] GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE-- OCT. 30, 1947

A1361

SCHEDULE X - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Part II (concluded) and General Notes

Tariff Act of 1930 Title I, ' and Internal Revenue Code , sec tions 2490 and 3420

Description of Products
Manganese ore or concentrates (including sintered manganese) , copper-bearing ores and concentrates, fruits in their natural state , vegetables in their natural state , pineapple slips , coconuts, and bleached beeswax; any of the foregoing which are of a class or kind which would have been entitled to preferential exemption from duty or import tax if imported into the United States on April 10, 1947, as products of Cuba
All other articles which would have been entitled to preferential exemption from duty or import tax if imported into the United States on April 10 , 1947 , as products of Cuba .....

Rate of Duty and import tax
Free
Free , subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article I of this Agreement ³] in the event that the most- favorednation rate on any such product is modified

GENERAL NOTES
1. The provisions of this Schedule shall bo construed and given the same effect, and the application of collateral provisions of the customs laws of the United States to the provisions of this Schedule shall be determined, insofar as may be practicable , as if each provision of this Schedulo appeared respectively in the statutory provision Lotod in the column at the left of the respective description of articles .
2. Any additional or separate ordinary customs duty provided for on the date of this Agreement in respect of any article described in

1 [46 Stat. 590 ; 19 U. S. C § 1001 ]. 253 Stat. 267 , 414; 26 U. S. C. §§ 2490, 3420.] [Ante, p. A13. ]

A1362

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [61 STAT.

SCHEDULE XX - UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
General Notes (concluded)
this Schedule , whether or not imposed under the statutory provision indicated in the colunn at the left of the description of the article and whether or not temporarily or conditionally inapplicable on such date , shall continue in force until terminated in accordance with law, subject to any reduction, or consolidation with the primary duty, indicated in this Schedule or hereafter provided for, and subject to any temporary or conditional exemption therefrom provided for by law on such date or thereafter, but shall not be increased.
3. Wherever in this Schedule the word "entered" is used in any quota or seasonal-rate provision, it shall mean " entered , or withdrawn fron warehouse, for consumption" .
4. If any tariff quota provided for in this Schedule, other than those provided for in itens 771, becomes effective after the beginning of a period specified as the quota year, the quantity of the quota product entitled to enter under the quota during the unexpired portion of the quota year shall be the annual quota quantity less 1/12 thereof for each full calendar month that has expired in such period,
5. In the event that the United States adopts any measure which precludes the application of "American selling price " , as defined in section 402 (g) , Tariff Act of 1930, 1') as a basis for determining the dutiable value of imported merchandise, it shall be free to adjust any rate of duty for any product on which duty is required by law in force or the date of this Agreement to be assessed on the basis of such " American selling price" to offset in whole or in part the difference in amount of duty which would otherwise result from the adop tion of such measure.
1 [46 Stat. 710; 19 U. S. C. § 1402 (g) .]

INDEX

A

Page | Countervailing Duties :

Page

Acceptance of Agreement Deposit of instruments .

A69 Consultation, provision for . Definition
A69

A64 A24, A86

Interpretative note

A90 Interpretative note.

A85, A86

Territorial application_ Accession, provision for Agreements :

A69 Multiple currency practices, interpreta-

A75

tive note.

A86

Restrictions

A23

General Agreement, text ..

All Currency :

Interim, adoption , restriction .

A66, A67 Conversion-

Trade, publication ...

A31

Method, restriction on alteration

A15

Aircraft in Transit, Operation of, inap-

Rate of exchange, basis .

A27

plicability of certain provisions to ... A22

Rules , formulation by contracting

Amendment , Supplement, or Maintenance

parties and International Mone-

of General Agreement, meeting for

tary Fund..

A27

agreement on

A73 Par value, reduction in , adjustments on

Amendments, effective date , procedure ... A74

account of..

A17

Annexes :

Customs. See also Preferences in Import

Made integral part of Agreement ..

A75

Text of Annexes A- I, inclusive.... A76-A90

Anti- Dumping Duties :

Consultation, provision for

A64

Hidden dumping, interpretative note

A86

Interpretative note ..

A85, A86

Multiple currency practices, interpreta-

tive note..

A86

Restrictions ..

A23

B Balance of Payments, safeguarding re-

Duties or Charges, Certain. Duties and charges-

Most-favored-nation treatment ...

A12

Charter of International Trade Or-

ganization, effect of entry into

force ..

A72

Interpretative note..

A85

Traffic in transit, exemption in certain

cases.

A21

Regulations and formalities , provision

for consultation__

A64

Valuation for customs purposes.

A25

strictions ...

A34

Interpretative note ....

A86

Interpretative note

A87 Customs Territory, Separate, acceptance

of Agreement, provisions respecting.- A69

C

Interpretative note .

A90

Cinematograph Films :

Customs Unions

A66

Restrictions inapplicable to internal

Interpretative note ..

A89

quantitative regulations .__

A19

Special provisions relating to.

A20

D

Concessions :

Schedules ofAnti-dumping or countervailing duties ,

Dumping :

Hidden dumping by associated houses . A86

Margin of, definition

A23

interpretative note.

A85, A86 Offsetting measures, limitation

A25

List

A91

Modification .

Interpretative note.

A86

Provisions relating to . Text .

A71 Duties. See Anti- Dumping Duties ; Coun-

A14

tervailing Duties ; Customs .

A93

Withholding or withdrawal of

A70

E

Consultation on Matters Affecting Opera-

tion of Agreement . Contracting Parties, definition ..

A64 Economic Development, adjustments in

A75

connection with

A53

A-I

A- II

INDEX

Page

I

Page

Entry Into Force Percentage shares of total external trade for determination respecting
Exceptions : General
Security Exchange Arrangements .
Interpretative note . Exchange Regulations, provision for con-
sultation.. Exportation. See Importation and Ex-
portation. F
Films, Cinematograph : Restrictions inapplicable to internal quantitative regulations__ Special provisions relating to..
Final Act, Preparatory Committee of United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment, Second Session .
Signatories Frontier Traffic.
Interpretative note .

G

General Agreement :

Acceptance .. Deposit of instruments_ Interpretative note .

Territorial application . Accession, provision for Amendment, supplement,

or mainte-

nance, meeting for agreement on .. Amendments, effective date , procedure

A70 Import Restrictions or Prohibitions :

A84 Conditions.

Exceptions

A60

Interpretative notes.

A63 Consultations on

A49

Secrecy in conduct of...

A88 Import quotas, notice, allocation of

shares ...

A64

Interpretative notes ....

Limitations on

Interpretative note. Importation and Exportation. See also
Customs ; Import Restrictions or Prohibitions.

A19 Emergency action on imports of partic-

A20

ular products._-

Fees and charges, other than duties,

limitation on....

A5

Interpretative note .

A8 Formalities connected with .

A66

Interpretative note .......

A89

Penalties, limitation .........

Monopolies on importation-

Interpretative note .

Limitation__

Most-favored-nation treatment, general

A69

Charter of International Trade Or-

A69

ganization, effect of entry into

A90

force .

A69

Interpretative note .

A75 Quantitative restrictions-

Elimination of....

A73

Entry into force in respect of certain

A74

export restrictions ..

A40 A44 A88 A38 A39
A40 A88 A34 A87
A58
A28 A87 A28 A87 A29
A86 A15 A12
A72 A85
A32
A48

Annexes, made integral part of Agree-

ment

A75

Authentic texts .

A69

Exceptions-Interpretative note .. Nondiscriminatory administration of

Entry into force . Percentage shares of total external trade for determination respect-
ing-Interpretative notes .. Joint action by contracting parties .
First meeting, convening by Secretary- General of United Nations

A70

Entry into force , limitation of...

Exceptions

Interpretative note_

A84

State-trading operations, inclusion .........

A85 India, trade arrangements with Pakistan .
A68 Interpretative note ...

Interim Agreements, adoption, restriction. A68

Operation, consultation on matters

affecting .

A64

Registration.

A70

Signature , date of..

A69

Territorial application_

A66

Interpretative note.

A89

Text ...

All

Publication, release by Secretary-

General of United Nations__

A7

Withdrawal .

A74

Amendments, nonacceptance of..

A74

Notice to Secretary- General of United
A65, A75 Nations .

Internal Taxation and Regulation : Charter of International Trade Organization, effect of entry into force .... National treatment on .....
International Monetary Fund : Consultation on exchange questions .. Currency conversion , formulation of
rules for ... -Membership of contracting parties ....... International Trade Organization, Charter
of, relation of Agreement to ......... Interpretative Notes, General Agreement .

A33 A87 A40 A48 A43 A88 A34 A67 A89 A66, A67
A72 A18
A49
A27 A50
A72 A85

INDEX

A- III

J

Page

Q

Page

Joint Action by Contracting Parties
M
Marketing Boards, provisions applicable to operation
Marks of Origin , provisions relating to Meeting of Contracting Parties, First,
convening by Secretary- General of United Nations ... Military Occupation, Areas Under, trade with. Monopolies on Importation : Interpretative note . Limitation .____ Most-Favored- Nation Treatment : Charter of International Trade Organi-
zation, effect of entry into force .-General. Interpretative note .. Multiple Currency Practices ..

A68 Quantitative Regulations, provision for consultation .......

Quantitative Restrictions : Elimination of..

Entry into force in respect of certain

A89

export restrictions .

A29

Exceptions

Interpretative note.
Nondiscriminatory administration of......... A68
Entry into force, limitation ..
Exceptions A90
Interpretative note .

State-trading operations, inclusion . A86

A15

R

A64
A32
A48 A33 A87 A40 A48 A43 A88 A34

Registration.

A70

A72 Restrictions, Quantitative. See Quanti-

A12

tative Restrictions.

A85

A86

S

N

Sanitary Laws and Regulations, provision

for consultation _...

A64

Notes, Interpretative, on General Agreement..

Schedules : A85 Countries-

Nullification or Impairment of Benefits,

action to be taken..

A64

Australia

A93

Belgium , Luxemburg, Netherlands-

Belgian Congo and RuandaUrundi-

Occupation, Military, Areas Under, trade

with

A90

Origin, Marks of, provisions relating to

A29

P

Pakistan, trade arrangements with India A67

Interpretative note ....

A89

Preferences in Import Duties or Charges ,

English text.. French text (authentic) . Curaçao ... Metropolitan territoriesEnglish text .... French text (authentic) . Netherlands Indies .. Surinam Brazil..

A261 A1539
A291
A201 A1459
A264 A293 A297

Certain :

Burma

A383

Elimination not required .

A12

Canada

A389

Territories, list of..

A76-A82

Ceylon ...

A493

Margin of-

Chile-

Definition

A85

Limitation.

A13, A85

Maximum margins, dates of estab-

lishment ..

A83

English text .. French text (authentic) . China .. Cuba ..

A507 A1765
A525 A545

Price Stabilization Systems, Domestic,

Czechoslovakia ....

A643

material injury resulting from , deter-

mination ...

A25

Protocol of Provisional Application .

A2051

Deposit of instrument..

A2052

Effective date ...

A2051

FranceFrench Equatorial AfricaEnglish text__ French text (authentic) French Guiana-

A912 A1995

Languages, authentic ..

A2052

Publication of, release by Secretary-

English text.. French text (authentic) -

A922 A2007

General of United Nations Signatories Withdrawals. Publication of Trade Regulations .

A7 A2053 A2052
A30

French Somali Coast and Depend-

encies-

English text

A918

French text (authentic) ..

A2001

A-IV

INDEX

Schedules Continued

Page | Secretary- General of United Nations. Page

Countries -Continued

See under United Nations .

France -Continued French West AfricaEnglish text__. French text (authentic) _ Guadeloupe and DependenciesEnglish text_ French text (authentic) . Indo- ChinaEnglish text . French text (authentic) Madagascar and DependenciesEnglish text French text (authentic)

A915 A1998
A921 A2005
A923 A2008
A925 A2010

Security Exceptions___

A63

State-Trading Enterprises, nondiscrimina-

tory treatment on part of....

A52

Interpretative notes.

A89

State-Trading Operations :

Consultation, provision for..

A64

Inclusion under import and export

restrictions

A34

Subsidies, provisions relating to ... A51, A64

Subsidization, Offsetting Measures

A24

Limitation____

A25

Interpretative note .

A86

MartiniqueEnglish text__. French text (authentic) -

T A928
A2013 Taxation and Regulation, Internal :

Metropolitan territory-

Charter of International Trade Organ-

English text French text (authentic) .

A699

ization , effect of entry into force ... A72

A 1841 National treatment on

A18

New Caledonia and Dependencies-

Territorial Application .

A66

English text .

A929

A89

French text (authentic) -

Interpretative note A2015

Trade Agreements, publication.

A31

Oceania, French establishments in-

English text .. French text (authentic) . Réunion-

A919 Trade and Employment, United Nations

A2002

Conference on. See Trade and Em-

ployment, Conference on, under

English text_

A934

United Nations.

French text (authentic)

A2020 Trade Names, Misuse , prevention .....

A30

Saint-Pierre and Miquelon-

Trade Regulations , publication and ad-

English text .

A935

ministration of..

A30

French text (authentic ) ..

A2021 Transit, Freedom of

A21

TunisiaEnglish text_

A937

Transportation charges, interpretative

note .

A86

French text (authentic) .

A2024

Great Britain. See United Kingdom ,

U

this title.

United Nations :

India New Zealand . Norway Pakistan South Africa, Union of

A941 A953 A989 A 1003 A 1039

Economic and Social Council , consulta-

tion respecting nullification or im-

pairment of benefits of agreement . - A65

General Agreement , registration___.

A70

Secretary- General-

Southern Rhodesia..

A1015

Amendments, General Agreement,

Syro-Lebanese Customs UnionEnglish text . French text (authentic) ...
United Kingdom-

A 1017 A2027

deposit of instruments of ac-

ceptance ...

A74

Contracting parties, convening of

first meeting ..

A68

Dependent territories_ Malayan Union___ Metropolitan Territory. Newfoundland . Palestine. United States of America List of.... Modification of

A1152 A1153 A 1071 A1144 A1154 A1157
A91 A71

Final Act, release for publication__

A7

General Agreement , deposit of

A69

Entry into force ....

A70

Instruments of acceptance, deposit of A69

Protocol of Provisional Application,

General Agreement on Tariffs

and Trade , deposit ; furnishing of

copies ....

A2052

Screen Quotas, regulation of cinemato-

graph films ...

A20

Withdrawal from Agreement, written

notice to...

A65, A75

INDEX

A-V

United Nations-Continued Trade and Employment, on-

Conference

International Trade Organization, Charter of, relation of General

Agreement to Preparatory Committee , second ses-

sion , Final Act adopted at conclusion of

Page

Page

Valuation for Customs Purposes

A25

Interpretative note .

A86

W

A72 Waiver of Obligations.

A68

Withdrawal From Agreement

A74

Amendments , nonacceptance of

A74

Notice to Secretary- General of United

A5

Nations

A65, A75

385608680538560

THE OSU COLLEGE OF LAW LIBRARY 3 2437 01094 0258

